ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries, please. Before we begin our agenda for today, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary to make an announcement. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, just to inform that the Left Block has withdrawn its draft resolution No 1377 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — For the protection and requalification of the Forte de Santo António da Barra, Town Hall of Cascais.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now start our agenda. of the first point is the joint discussion of Bill No 110 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of the most accompanying, in place of the institutes of the prohibition and incapacity and of the projects of lein.o 795 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence, ill-treatment, kidnapping or violation of the food obligation ( CDS-PP ) and 796 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), in general, and draft resolution No 1379/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt mechanisms to support decision-making in compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( BE ). I give the floor to the Minister of Justice, to whom I would like to congratulate, as well as to all the members of the Government present at the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is known, in our legal order, the durable means of protection of adults with reduced capacity are prohibition and inactivatement. Both institutes are applicable to the permanent disability of older persons, and disability is expected to be relatively less serious than those that justify the prohibition. Inactivatement is, as it were, an institute that attaches greater relevance to the protection of wealth than to the protection of people. The prohibition, in turn, determines the suppression of general exercise capacity, in a very inspired logic in the model designed for minority disability. It completely removes the legal capacity of the person subject to it, preventing the maximization of self-determination spaces that it is still carrying and subject to a kind of civil death. Both prohibition and disability are far from providing adequate solutions to our sociological reality, marked by changing traditional family models, increasing life expectancy, inversion of the age pyramid and a greater prevalence of disability pathologies. Both do not provide variable support, in form or intensity, in order to respond to the specific needs of the person supported: support is dispensed in variety, with indifference to the specific situation of the person concerned, its autonomy and its capacity for self-determination. The processes of prohibition and inactivatement are slow and take on a stigmatizing feeling. From this model, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a perverse consequence: most vulnerable situations remain outside the legal protection measures, which is particularly clear about the person removed from the relevant estate. The encouragement of intervention in this area is, in most cases, the heritage of the visa and the need to ensure its integrity, in particular with a view to transmission. The feeling of inadequacy of this regime — which is common to other legal quadrants and is not a Portuguese singularity — has led to the creation and dissemination of the so-called doctrine of the less restrictive alternative, according to which the defence of persons with reduced capacity must be carried out with the least possible restriction of fundamental rights, through the use of instruments to ensure their maximum control of their lives. This doctrine has been incorporated both in acts, and in recommendations from several international organizations of which Portugal is a party, including the United Nations and the Council of Europe, and includes, among other principles, respect for human rights, flexibility in the legal response, maximum preservation of capacity, prevalence of interests and the well-being of the person, and respect for his wishes and feelings. The dignity of the person reduced in his legal capacity and the defence of the fundamental rights that the holder continues therefore imposes the adoption of a model built under the sign of the less restrictive alternative and this model is the most accompanied, which adequately resolves the tension between autonomy and protection needs. In the model of the major accompanying guardianship is instrumentalized through a single legal institute, refusing either in the definition of the assumptions or the consequence that should be associated with the reduction of capacity, any stigmatizing effect. The intervention is limited to the minimum essential, preserving, in all possible extent, the capacity of self-determination that the person still holds, only by admitting representation — replacement — in cases where the person has no competence to form his or her will or to exteriorize it. The person is supported so that he can express his will with the help of others, oriented, objectively and subjectively, by defending the autonomy and interests of the person accompanying him. in this institute intervention is guided by the principle of capacity and not by the opposite principle, not by the principle of disability. The content of the follow-up is determined by the concrete degree of inability that the accompanying person is carrying, and the sentence that decrees it, accurately defines the scope of the follow-up without link to the request. Support for decision-making is variable, either in form or in intensity, in order to meet the specific needs of the person who needs it. In defining the assumptions of follow-up—and this is a relevant aspect—in the impossibility, for reasons of health or its behaviour, of the older person exercising his/her rights and consciously fulfilling his/her duties, we follow the non-formalist trend of modern legal methodology, and weighting and reasonableness, which are indispensable elements to the realization of these relatively indeterminate clauses and concepts, become important parameters of decision. Thus, the radical contrast between mental disability and disabilities of another nature is abandoned in a legislative attitude more consensual to the dignity of the human person. A companion's performance is subject to more intense judicial control, either by the judge or by the Public Prosecutor, requiring the intervention of the court whenever it is a matter of particular importance or that the interests of the companion and the companion are conflicting. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the largest member is an institute in which principles of proportionality, subsidiarity, necessity, procedural flexibility and control are identified. It was chosen for the systematic and harmonic inclusion of the institute in the Civil Code and not for the adoption of a diploma dedicated exclusively to the status of persons with reduced capacity, since this would imply the assumption of a clear formal separation between citizens, violating their radical equality, and likely to feed feelings of discrimination. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The degree of civilization in a society is also measured by the ethics of care with which it treats the most vulnerable, whatever the cause of vulnerability. The institution of the oldest person is conceived as a structured response to the dignity of the human person, paying attention to his fundamental rights and ordered to ensure his full citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u5	Mrs. Minister, you are registered to request clarifications of two Mrs. Members, one from the Left Block and another from the PCP. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u6	Mr. President, together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u7	All right. You then have the floor to ask for clarifications from Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u8	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In fact, the bill that the government is bringing us today is going on a path that we follow, and the word 'follow' here really has a double meaning. To replace a regime, which is the one that has come to prevail and which is the regime dominated by the primacy of disability, by another in which capacity is a category of universal nature, and then it is important to accept mechanisms, which are intended to support the exercise of these capabilities in the case of holders or subjects who have unique conditions of exercise, is a path that seems right to us and we follow that path. Therefore, our position is in favour of this proposal, along with others, taking the path it has to take and, in the field of expertise, we can strengthen its potential and limit its weaknesses. The problem for us, Mrs Minister, is essentially the following: when we create a regime that essentially relies on the follow-up of these people, the question is what are the monitoring mechanisms, which are the monitoring systems, in particular, that will be created to be available to people who, being fragile or having unique weaknesses, really need that support. In minutes, my comrade Jorge Falcato will present a draft resolution that seeks to go precisely in this direction, but what I would like to ask you, Minister, is the following: does the Government intend to create a system of support for decision-making in the event, for example, of people with disabilities? Does this diploma include support for the informal monitoring network, including the so-called peer follow-up? Does it or does it not provide for the training and monitoring of the performance of persons accompanying these persons whose singularity requires follow-up? Does it include, or does it not include, in the forecast of implementation of this diploma, the possibility of publishing a script of good practices in monitoring or in support of decision-making? Therefore, Mrs Minister, recognizing and accompanying the goodness of the principle that inspires this diploma, it seems to us that we must be careful in the creation of concrete mechanisms that help to implement this principle in real terms for the people who need it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u9	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, we believe that the reform proposed here is very relevant, I do not even know if it will not be the most significant reform of the Civil Code of the last 40 years after the 1977 reform, because in fact it is about to review in a very profound way the current mechanisms of prohibition and disability which, in fact, were already inadequate to the realities they aim to regulate. In fact, the figures called for by the interdiction are now manifestly inadequate, and today contemporary society faces problems of various dementias and of people of extremely high age who actually advise that there is another type of regulation of this matter. The problem we have raised at this point has something to do with the question now raised by Mr José Manuel Pureza, which is this: we already have experience in other areas of justice of situations where judicial intervention lacks permanent monitoring of people. I am referring, in particular, to social reintegration, in which decisions are taken on a judicial basis, but there is all the necessary follow-up so that judicial decisions can be substantiated and fair. The judge who assesses a specific case does not, of course, have the right to permanently follow up on the situation on which he himself will have to decide and therefore there is a whole monitoring mechanism that has to exist. Here, there is a regulation in which there is a decision which, in the case of prohibition, is tending to be definitive or which, in the case of inactivatement, sometimes even is limited to the rights of the person himself and is imposed by the concrete situation in which he has placed himself, in particular as the Civil Code states,, i.e. from situations where there is a judicial decision, the decision is taken, has consequences and, after that, the court has not to link itself to this reality, it does not have to follow up to a regulation in which what is intended is different. It is now planned that decisions have to be followed, they have to have a follow-up, to check whether they have to be altered. This requires, in fact, that there is a whole monitoring structure that does not exist at present and the question that would be raised is whether this matter is being equationd and how the Government expects a legal decision, a legislative decision as important as this one, to have the necessary backbone to be effectively effective and to lead to the desired effects. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u11	In reply, Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions that have raised me and that are undoubtedly of the greatest importance. We cannot create institutes and then have no ways of operating. It is important to highlight two things here. First, inability was very little used. In recent years, by reference to two years, we have practically 100 cases. In Portuguese society, 100 cases are absolutely insignificant and makes no sense. Secondly, in the ban we also had problems because we were not able to form the family council. With this measure we are taking a step, and I think we are taking a giant step in relation to the needs of many Portuguese citizens. The questions related to the monitoring mechanisms were not neglected by us. In October, the Government approved an independent life support mechanism, which is a first mechanism which is precisely aimed at creating social security structures to complement the scale of support that will become necessary here. It is indisputable that, with regard to the judicial decision, we fully trust the prudentness of the judges and the prudentness of the Public Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, the conviction that we have is that the mechanism will allow this to be extended to as many people as possible and also identify, at the level of civil society, the structures that can carry out this follow-up, but not only has the government created this mechanism for supporting independent life as it is available to deepen the mechanisms for this reform to be a successful reform. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal presented today here interferes, as you know, with a reality that affects thousands of Portuguese citizens, thousands of citizens who do not have institutional ways of expressing their will and who in many cases cannot make it respected at the time of the future, at the moment when they have reduced capacity. It is that, today, it allows us also a mandate with a view to disability, allows a healthy person, on the assumption that he may lose his abilities, establish a mandate and be known by the court and respected by the court, if that is understood, in a situation of disability. What I ask of you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that they are interpreters of the will of those citizens who have no voice, and I am confident that they will find the best answer, since they have a basis here which is, from the Government's point of view, the best possible basis for starting this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u14	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members : According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), Portugal is listed in the top five of the countries that most abuse the elderly. The rate of elderly people who are victims of violence in Portugal is 39 % — I repeat, 39 % — on average 19 per week and three per day. In 2013, 774 were the elderly victims of crime ; in 2016, they were already 1009. According to the same report, the main abusers are within their own family, usually children or grandchildren. We are at the top of Europe as the country that least invests in the protection and care of the elderly. This is not the first, nor the second, nor even the third time the CDS brings the issue to mind. These are not new data and much less is a reality that someone in this House ignores. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u15	What is new here is to see the majority finally deal with the problem. A small part of the problem is true, but still a positive step we welcome. And we salute not because we agree with everything or because we understand that it is enough and necessary, but rather because for the CDS, more than the flag of the parties, it is important to find effective ways and answers. Even if it's short, it's a start. A start that's late. Two years ago, when CDS and PSD presented a bill amending the disability and disability regime, most rejected it with the argument that the Civil Code needed a broad and deep review. We now realize that very little was being dealt with. In addition to changing concepts, essentially, the regime that is currently under discussion differs little from the framework that we then presented, with an aggravating one, recognized either by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ), or by the Union of Magistrates of the Public Ministry ( SMMP ) : there is still some ambiguity of concepts and, worse, the consecration of the figure of autonomy is still quite shy. Where to, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you weren't so worried about lying in the trash can all that comes from this side, then perhaps we could have built a satisfactory regime that could now be in full operation. However, as it is worth more late than ever and as, unlike the majority, the CDS does not throw out all the proposals that come on this side, we will not cease to work towards improving and improving this new legal framework. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But what is truly surprising here is that this proposal has left aside two issues which for the CDS are absolutely central and which therefore resumes. Yes, take it back, and you will always be back, ladies and gentlemen. Members, until they understand the importance and scope of them. I am talking about two small but important issues that need to be reviewed in the Civil Code: the extension of the causes of successive indignity — which we have already presented twice here — and the recognition of the most effective protection of the incapacitated or disabled heirs, or, in what might become the new terminology, of those who are accompanied. In fact, we have proposed twice that anyone convicted of certain crimes be immediately and automatically unable to inherit the person against whom he had committed the crime. They refused, with the great argument of the revision of the Civil Code. However, this is a matter in which they are now, purely and simply, not touching. And the CDS doesn't want to believe that it seems normal to them that the husband who beats the woman can inherit her or that the son who inflicts ill-treatment on the father can inherit her and, likewise, we don't understand, nor do we realize that this majority feels normal, that the father or mother who deprives their children of food can inherit them. And we all know that desertification is not a solution because often it does not just go on time as it is not entirely possible. In addition, we also propose that the disabled person, by large, have greater protection to the death of parents, preventing, on the one hand, the legacy of food or vital pension from becoming inviolable because the sharing of the inheritance is not made or by exceeding the part that the author of the inheritance could have, and on the other hand, by dedicating the rule that those who may demand food from the inheritance. The protection of the disabled person who cannot provide for his or her own livelihood is, above all, concerned here, and is therefore so often dependent on people who are not concerned about his or her fate or fate. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I no longer take the argument of the revision of the Civil Code, although very partial is true. I therefore leave here a question: what an excuse will now be for the Members of Parliament and for the Members of this House. Members to chum these CDS proposals? I hope that this time you will not allow yourself to be sidetracked by prejudice on the part of the proposer. If you do, that burden will remain with the gentlemen. the CDS will remain no alternative but not give up and insist. That's why we're here. They get used to each other, as someone I know would say to them to nurture respect and affection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u16	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Falcato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Equality before the law is a basic principle of the protection of human rights. The legal recognition of decisions made by the individual is at the heart of an approach to disability or disability based on human rights and supports the exercise of numerous other rights. The right to equal recognition as a person before the law implies that legal capacity is a universal attribute inherent to all people, arising from their human condition and must be maintained for persons with disabilities on equal terms with others. Article 12. the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that all persons with disabilities have full legal capacity. This capacity has been denied by the existing regime of prohibition and disability in Portugal so far, affecting directly and indirectly the ability to enjoy and exercise fundamental rights by some people with disabilities or disabilities. That is why we welcome the Government's initiative to present a bill that will put an end to this unjust system. On 11 April 2016, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, had requested the Portuguese State to adopt "appropriate measures so that all persons with disabilities who have been deprived of their legal capacity may exercise all the rights enshrined in the Convention, including the right to vote, marriage, family and manage goods and properties" The Committee further recommended "the repeal of existing systems of full and partial protection, which eliminate or limit the legal capacity of the person, and the creation of systems to support decision-making, enabling and promoting the effective exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities", in accordance with Article 12. the Convention. It is indeed essential to ensure that the conditions of disability, the existence of disability or the need for support do not constitute grounds for the withdrawal of legal capacity or the exercise of any of the rights referred to in Article 12. o. It is necessary to make clear the distinction between the concepts of legal capacity and mental capacity. Legal capacity is inalienable, already the ability to make decisions is individual variable for individuals and is dependent on numerous factors, including environmental and/or social factors, and support for this decision-making may be necessary. Now is not the time to discuss the shortcomings that we consider having the proposed law. We are convinced that it will be possible to correct them in the process of discussion in the specialty. But it is time to highlight an aspect that we consider essential to the success of this law: support for the decision. The motion for a resolution before us is a step towards ensuring that, in the implementation of future legislation, there will be the conditions and resources necessary for the operation of a genuine system of support for the decision, which we consider essential, because the will and rights of persons with disabilities must be guaranteed, but also because their existence stems from the commitments made by the Portuguese State in ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We therefore create the conditions for this to be possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u18	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u19	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: The Government, in fulfilling its Programme, in which it elected as a strategic objective the inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities, and also implementing a commitment made by the Minister of Justice to this House, submitted Bill No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), which we are here to appreciate. We will all agree that there is a broad consensus in both the academic and medical fields of forensic and medical professions and in the community as a whole about the need for reformulation of this institute. This consensus has as essential the acceptance of the principle that inclusion should have as a fundamental element the recognition that the different situations of disability, with differentiated degrees of dependence, lack different responses and support, and that diversity should be taken into account in the design of the measures and the responses to be given in each case. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the development and the significant increase in life expectancy associated with birthbreak resulted in a trend towards the reversal of the age pyramid, with the growing and important assumption of the principle, without any doubt, that a person with disabilities should be treated as equal, without prejudice to the special needs to be met by the law. Clearly, the solutions of the 1966 Civil Code have gradually become inadequate in the face of socio-economic and demographic developments. in this sense, the culturally close legal experiences, as well as the international instruments to which the Portuguese Republic has become linked, of which I stress the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in New York, impose a review of this regime. Therefore, it is proposed, it is necessary and requires a profound and ambitious reform. The solution taken in the proposed law, when opting for the term ‘greater companion’, was of course concerned not to use an expression that would bring with it a stigmatizing burden, as well as, in terms of concepts, the option for a single model, a monist model of monitoring, characterized, too, by a wide flexibility and based on a specific and individualised response appropriate to the specific situation of the protected person. It highlights, in the solution found, the role of the judge, who welcomes himself, as well as the rule of maintaining freedom for the practice of various procedural acts, as well as the qualification of the common process as voluntary and urgent jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, speed, judicial appreciation, personalization, adequacy, respect for the primacy of the individual and freedom, with the restriction in the strict measure of what is necessary, are guiding marks that guarantee us effective protection of the person, without being called into question individual rights. These options involve amendments to the Civil Code and modifications to the procedural rules contained in the Civil Procedure Code. That is to say, when creating the legal status of the most accompanying person, eliminating the statutes of the prohibition and disability, the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, as well as a set of other diplomas, of which I stress the decree regulating the election of the President of the Republic, the Elections Act of the Assembly of the Republic, the law regulating the election of the holders of local authorities' organs, the Legal Regime of the Local Referendant and the Civil Registry Code, among others. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are also here today under consideration other bills, including the draft law submitted by the CDS-PP, with proposals to amend the regime of successive indignity or even to amend the regime of legal protection to prohibited or disabled heirs. On this point, I recall an opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry on a proposal very similar to that already submitted by the CDS, where it was clear that we were limiting the capacity of the elderly and, moreover, even though questions and reservations of a constitutional nature were raised by the automatic application of an accessory measure based on condemnation. In fact, forgive me for being irony, but we can say that these projects are a form of CDS entering the window, since, with regard to projects entered by the front door, Parliament has already been careful to say that it did not agree. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave here the firm conviction that we are aware that these are steps in the right direction and, for this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is sure that the debate on the speciality and the development of the legislative process, where we will have the opportunity to receive contributions from the various entities and the desired contribution from the different parliamentary groups, will allow us to complete this legislative process by making significant steps to ensure the conditional treatment of not only the elderly but also those of any age deprived of protection, whatever the basis of that need. This proposal shows us that, as has already been mentioned, one of the most profound reforms to the Civil Code in the democratic regime since 1966, major reforms can be made in justice and in the structural diplomas of justice without requiring constitutional revisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u20	Mr Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u21	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The multiple problems affecting the institution of the incapacity of the major are widely diagnosed. The diplomas presented here today focus on this issue, although each of them focuses on a different object. The regime in question, paying attention to its conception, nature and effects, is in fact inadequate and therefore ineffective to respond to complex, evolutionary and very diverse situations of life. The need for a comprehensive reform of this institute is indisputable. Within the framework of the Civil Code, the change of the disability regime is priority since it is deeply out of date and does not provide adequate answers to the reality in which we live. For this reason, the PSD, together with the CDS-PP, presented in December 2015 a set of initiatives framed in the strategy of protection of the elderly, a logic of legal reform, and a legal reform designed and supported by the requirement of a society that we want more worthy and respect the values of the fundamental rights of the elderly. at that time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked for the support of the other parliamentary committees and have made it available to us to improve our proposals with the other parties, but unfortunately they have not adhered to this. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the year 2015 ended, the years of 2016 and 2017 passed, and the PSD again presented in this Parliament, already this year, in February, the same concerns with the resumption of the discussion, already with several amendments to the initiatives that were presented in December 2015. Interestingly, at that time, two days earlier in the Council of Ministers, precisely this regime, the proposal that the Government brings here today and which replaces the institutes of prohibition and disability, amending the Civil Code, the Code of Civil Procedure and other diplomas. It's true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it took 26 months for the Government to submit a proposal, for the Government to reach Parliament and finally present a solution to all the issues with which the PSD has always been concerned. However, Madam Minister, although the PSD re-presented last February the proposal for a review of the civil code inadequacies, because it was in fact advantageous and perhaps even allowed us to be here today in this House to debate precisely the very subject we had already intended to clarify and debate in 2015. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, a proposal is presented by the Government which, of course, we welcome, Mrs Minister, and which is truly a change in the paradigm of the disability regime. A proposal that gives « primacy to the autonomy of the person, whose answer must be respected and taken advantage of to the extent possible ». Instead of incapacities, there will be greater accompanied. It therefore opts for a model of follow-up rather than a model of replacement, in which the incapable person is supported, and not replaced, in the formation and outsourcing of his will. The analysis, even if superficial, of the disability regime in our Civil Code highlights, of course, its departure from both social reality and what has been recognized in the international legal order, even raising serious doubts as to its constitutional conformation. It is imperative to create a new institute, less intrusive and ablative of capacity, which includes more flexible and customised measures and which also includes a broader domain of situations. An institute which, instead of declaring a disability, aims to apply a protective measure to those who see its reduced capacity. It is also true, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the solutions provided by the 1966 Civil Code are, in fact, inadequate in the face of socio-economic and demographic developments in our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is a humanist party whose essence lies in social concerns and therefore, in this line, we have always been ahead of this very important issue of fundamental rights. It was in this sense that the PSD has already presented in this Parliament, together with the CDS, a set of initiatives, in December 2015, calling for the support of parliamentary banks and making myself available to re-emphasize, to listen to and improve diplomas. As before, the PSD is now available to work on this very important issue without demagogy, naturally seeking to extend this debate and improve the diploma. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u22	Mr António Filipe now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As I have had the opportunity to say recently, we believe that this is a very relevant reform of our civil law because, indeed, the mechanisms of interdiction and disability are now completely inadequate to solve the problems that have arisen, however, and that they no longer sympathize with the rigidity of these legal figures. Indeed, when we look at today's formulation of our Civil Code on the grounds of prohibition and we see that it refers to psychic anomaly, deafness, change and blindness, we see that it is in fact a standard that is already of a proficient age and that it no longer responds to the problems that arise today. In fact, today, to a large extent also due to the increased life expectancy with which we are all pleased, new problems arise regarding follow-up, particularly in the older population segment, which effectively lacks support in order to continue to solve the problems of their lives, as far as their capabilities are concerned, and to be supported by the resolution of what, indeed, cannot be solved. Therefore, these figures of interdiction and disability—and then the incapacity, as the Minister has just told us, is already practically in use—are in fact lacking a profound reformulation and this House is starting this legislative process in good time. We are aware that, behind this bill, there is certainly a lot of work already done — in fact, it could not be otherwise, given that it is a matter of altering a very significant set of diplomas, not only the Civil Code but also structural diplomas of our legal system. But also this House, after this debate in general, will have a very intense work to be done on this subject, which we think should be done with complete openness to the debate so that appropriate solutions can be found, with the necessary flexibility but with conditions to meet the expectations that we are all facing today at the start of this legislative process. As I said recently, this is one of those matters in which it is essential to legislate, but it is not enough just to legislate. The mechanisms we are going to set up require that there be conditions for monitoring judicial decisions so that they themselves, as the proposed law itself provides, can be adapted to the nature of the decisions on which they must deliberate. Obviously, in order to ensure that these decisions are fair, they must have monitoring mechanisms that are necessarily appropriate for the preparation of decisions to be fair and that this legislation does not become a cause for dissatisfaction on the part of people directly involved in their application within a few years. We welcome this legislative process and believe that it will be very important for Portuguese society to complete its work and, of course, we express the full availability of the CFP Parliamentary Group to participate in it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u24	The following entry for an intervention is from Mrs Vania Dias da Silva. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u25	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Ms Under-Secretary of State of the Prime Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: Mr Fernando Anastácio said recently from the rostrum that the CDS was now bringing the question of the elderly again through the window. Mr President, we welcome this. We will bring her through the window, through the front door, through the back door, and through the back door, and through the back door we will always, because we understand that this is too important to be forgotten. You don't normally bring it or, when you do, bring it by the postage,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u26	...so, it was good that this would be all right. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that you have chosen precisely the worst example of the CDS's initiatives. And I'll explain why. He said recently that the Public Prosecutor's Office had said that these CDS projects did not make the least sense and that we were here to bring matters that could not be treated in the way the CDS treated them. Mr President, I would advise you to read better the opinion that the Public Prosecutor's Office gave at that time, because the Public Prosecutor's Office on criminal matters, which we then presented, had, in fact, several reservations, but on the question of successive indignity not only welcomed her, as it said it was necessary to consider whether it should not go further than other crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u27	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u28	So, Mr. Deputy, you are completely wrong. The Public Prosecutor's Office has an opinion that is exactly contrary to yours and that is precisely what needs to be done in a different way. In fact, I must tell you that at that time the Order of the Advocates also welcomed this project and also said that it was too late for us to deal with the issue of successive indignity. Therefore, Mr President, you are alone on this issue, because the entities do not even consider it to be so. The PS will, as I said recently, be with that burden. The CDS will keep insisting and will not give up. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing the parliamentary leader of the CDS-PP for a simple reason. With two initiatives under discussion, one from the Government and the other from the CDS-PP, the last two interventions should be in this order. It happens that the Socialist Party has not signed up before and has now asked to use the word. If the CDS-PP doesn't get in the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u30	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Nuno Magalhães. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the opinion which Mrs Vania Dias da Silva referred to, I shall read parts of it so that we do not have any differences: 'Today it is assumed that an act of express will of the future(...) by means of desertification. To be the cause of identity, as the draft law in question intends, the will of it is withdrawn, the freedom to decide so. (...) it will eliminate the freedom of decision and the will of the future of cooking, and replace it, on behalf of a public interest, with a consequence of acts resulting from indignity. (...) shall be satisfied that the principle of autonomy and participation of the elderly citizen is or shall be limited. Do not keep on seeking. ” You are here in the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I am therefore not mistaken at what you have said. With regard to Mrs Andreia Neto's speech, I would like to welcome and congratulate her on the willingness of the PSD to discuss the bill, as well as the legislative initiative she has recently tabled, which has been brought down to its committee, without a vote, because I am sure that, in the field of expertise, the importance of this diploma, and will have, all the contributions will be necessary to make a profound reform of the Civil Code. I conclude with the following reference: The Socialist Party, with regard to individual rights, does not need to raise the flag that is ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u34	Our past and practice clearly demonstrate the position and reference that the PS has in this regard in Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u35	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I am sorry, but I have to repeat the request made recently, because now the PSD has also signed up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u36	For the most part, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u37	Mr President, thank you very much for your understanding. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u38	Mr. President, I begin by thanking the CDS. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that the Government and the Minister have finally brought this diploma to Parliament, which establishes the system of the most accompanied and which we consider to be of the greatest importance. Mrs. Minister, after successive announcements, delays and delays, it was already too late. The Minister has long announced that this bill was being prepared and that she would bring it to Parliament in September 2016 and we are in March 2018. Mr Minister, "soon and well, there is no one" and that is why we have the benefit of doubt, but the PSD Parliamentary Group expected more. We were hoping for more of this bill. We do not want to fail to point out the progress that this initiative represents, nor do we want to fail to recognize the goodness of the intentions of the Government, which we effectively recognise, in particular in assuming that all people are endowed with full legal capacity and that the exercise of their autonomy should extend to the extent possible. It was precisely this principle, Mrs. Minister, that guided the draft laws that the PSD presented on this matter and that the Government and the PS looked down on them until they contained legal and axiological weaknesses. Well, Mrs. Minister, legal and axiological fragility is what we find most in this bill. As I said recently, we recognize the intentions of the government, but we also recognize that they do not go away from this, from intentions, repeated numerous times, but, when we go to the root of the proposal, we find that a protectionist model still prevails, based on the substitution of the will, rather than a real model of support for decision-making which is precisely the guarantor of the exercise of autonomy. More, Mrs. Minister: the terminology used, with expressions such as « incapacitated », « notorious dementia », is stigmatizing,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u39	... which, in fact, runs counter to the very objectives of the bill, and is perfectly distorted by the current scientific knowledge and the legal order itself. Madam Minister, we hope that the Government and the Socialist Party will have the availability and political openness to receive contributions and improve this diploma. I heard the Member of the Socialist Party say 'present'. Because the PSD will also say « present ». It is precisely that the PSD also considers that this diploma has legal and axiological weaknesses, such as the Government and the Socialist Party have qualified our bills, but, unlike the Socialist Party and the Government, the PSD will still work together and contribute to improve this diploma. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u40	Madam Minister, at the end I would just like to say that we know that hearings have been made to several important entities, and we note that we have not had access to the opinions of those entities and that this would be enriching to the legislative process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u41	Now, yes to close the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am very grateful for all the contributions that have been made here and above all, the Government welcomes the identification of a broad consensus on the need for change and on principles. I would like to say that this is a matter of urgency and of great melindre. The Government was aware that there were legislative initiatives in this area that remained in Parliament and that did not happen and therefore sought, at the level of preparatory work, to find the broadest consensus, either from the point of view of civil society, which is very well represented here today, or also from the Academy. This work is the result of a first work done by the Association Center for Family Law, Coimbra and then by a protocol concluded between the two major faculties of the country's law, by the legal areas and by the civilistic areas, either Coimbra, or Lisbon. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is clearly a misunderstanding. In fact, this is the best proposal we could find. This model corresponds to the German model, corresponds to the Italian model, corresponds to the French model, corresponds to the Brazilian model. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a long journey and have a broad doctrinal consensus with regard to this project behind us. What I ask them to do is that, while respecting the principles, they will then find in their specialty the answers they consider to be enriching this proposal. This is what the government expects, and this is what civil society expects, which is waiting outside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u43	With this intervention we close the first point of our agenda. We immediately moved on to point two, with the discussion, together, in general, of the projects of lein.o 666 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the order of social workers ( PS ) and 789 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of social workers ( CDS-PP ). To begin the debate and present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to health the Association of Social Service Professionals and the social workers who are here today to attend this debate. The first initiatives on this issue in Parliament date back to 1997. Twenty years later we are presenting, for the second time, a bill for the creation of the order of social workers, because the Socialist Party has made this commitment to its association, understanding and accompanying the arguments presented for the need for regulation of the profession of social worker. There are three fundamental reasons for presenting this initiative. First, social service professionals and professionals have an important relationship with society and the State for their role in promoting citizenship and social inclusion, as well as in combating inequalities among people, families and organizations. This relationship represents the importance that this profession has in the effectiveness of our social state, either in the proper management of access to social support by citizens and citizens and thus in the fulfilment of citizenship rights, either in the monitoring of social protection and social support measures, as a guarantee of promoting autonomy, empowerment and inclusion of these people. Secondly, it is important to remember here how social protection and social policies evolved in Portugal and how professionals in this area were decisive, through their work, for the consolidation of much of the social state in our country. The importance of its intervention in the post-25 April was fundamental in the development of social security, but it was also important in other areas of the State, such as health and justice, and, more recently, they have gained relevance in education and in local authorities. Public policies that assumed a fundamental centrality in Portugal as instruments to combat poverty and social exclusion, such as the minimum guaranteed income today, social income of inclusion, or the solidarity complement for the elderly, which allowed a distribution of resources in non-contributory measures with a lower level of discretion, while giving better response to beneficiaries, would not have been possible without the knowledge and experience of social service professionals. The State — and this is the last point I would like to mention — has strengthened policies and social support through its implementation in partnership with the third sector — with the IPSS Confederation and with the IPSS, with the Union of Mercy and Mercy, with the Union of Mutualities and with the Mutualities, which leads to the growing need to ensure that policies and support correspond to the quality assurance of the services and answers provided. It is in this assumption that the importance of creating this order, which, by its scope and requirement, justifies the self-regulation embodied in professional regulation, regulation of the profession, representation and defence of the profession, harmonization of methodologies, procedures and professional self-discipline. It is reflected in our legislation that professional orders act through the transfer of competences of the State, in defense of the general public interest, which, as far as social workers and social workers are concerned, results in an increase in the quality of the work developed and the improvement and effectiveness of the services provided to the community. The regulation will ensure the professional performance of their duties, develop and apply ethical technical standards, ensure adequate training, ensure quality professional exercise, supervise the exercise of the profession and exercise of professional discipline. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, with the level of demands of our social protection system that, beyond the state, has a strong component of the social economy but also of the lucrative private sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u45	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u46	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I said that, with the level of demands of our social protection system which, apart from the state, has a strong component of the social economy but also of the lucrative private sector, the Socialist Party believes that, 20 years after the first initiatives, the order of social workers and assistants will become a reality with the approval of the law in this Parliament, because it is justified and because it is necessary to regulate such an important profession in our community and social context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u47	To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, first of all, all trade union and association representatives of professionals, social workers, present here. in them I greet your effort, perseverance in this process already long, effort and perseverance those that are of the whole class. It is recognized today that the profession of social worker has an increasing importance that covers almost all areas of public policy. It is virtually impossible to deal with any public policy today that does not require a specialist's involvement in the social field. Let us think of the great challenges that the country faces. Some are very obvious, such as the ageing of the population or the crisis of the family institution and loneliness, poverty, unemployment, homeless people. But we also think about health, the abandonment of users in our hospitals, the problems of justice and social reintegration, education and the importance of the social framework for the good performance of students. In Portugal, social workers have a great deal of weight in Public Administration. Far from restricting themselves to the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, they occupy great responsibilities, particularly in the field of health, justice and education. But the profession of social worker is far from exclusive of the Public Administration. In the social economy, it plays a predominant role and also extends to the private sector, whether at the level of education, or to a lesser extent also at the level of business. In 2016, the President of the Association of Social Service Professionals, Dr. Joaquina Madeira, present here, and who took advantage to greet, estimated that there were about 15 000 social workers in Portugal. With regard to the regulation of this profession, we follow closely the opinion of Professor Vital Moreira on the creation of the order of nutritionists and which can rightly be called with the necessary adaptations. He said: « The safeguard of the community is guaranteed that the professionals who work in this area are those who have the specific competences to do so and comply with appropriate technical and professional standards. Do not keep on seeking. ” Currently, the country forms, at the level of higher education, specialists in social service to fulfill this desire. However, it is found that the legal requirements for the exercise of the profession are not fully defined, nor the necessary rules of professional conduct. It is also evident that other agents, without their own academic qualifications, act and interfere in this area without equivalent qualifications. Without the institutionalization and legal regulation of the profession and without the supervision and public discipline of its exercise, all citizens, especially the most vulnerable, will be less protected and without guarantees in the face of a regulated market in this area of high responsibility. thus, the qualification and accountability of these professionals are essential to prevent and combat abuse and irregular procedures in their professional practice. Despite the exceptional nature of the creation of a professional order, in the CDS we know well that this is a subject discussed, but not always consensual. However, we always understand that, if justified, they can and should be created new professional orders, and that is precisely why the Order of Psychologists has been created in recent years, the Order of Nutritionists, which originated in initiatives of our parliamentary group. It is with this scope that we understand that the creation of another professional order is justified: the order of social workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party would like to leave here are, of course, for social workers, recognizing the significant importance of their work in society, especially if we consider that they intervene in social realities marked by deep economic shortcomings, by multiple social problems of complexity different to which they have to give an answer that somehow mitigates the suffering of families in situations of poverty, poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. These difficult realities of work are added to the working conditions of the social workers themselves, which are often marked by situations of exploitation, precariousness and low wages. There are a number of labour problems affecting social workers, which must be resolved and their socio-work rights must be guaranteed. We understand that it is not the creation of professional orders that will solve problems of a working nature, recognition or improvement of working conditions, so it is important that we continue the struggle for improving working conditions and for valuing the work of social workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u52	We understand that the resolution of problems of definition, regulation and access to the profession lies first of all with the government, through the promotion of appropriate legislation, and the creation of orders or professional public associations should be exceptional and take place only when self-regulation of professions is recognised as an appropriate and necessary measure. We recognize the need for specific follow-up in some sectoral areas of ethical and ethical regulation of professions, issues, indeed, addressed in the initiatives under consideration. But we believe that this role, delegated by the State to the orders and professional public associations, must be clearly defined as to their need and conditions. We have warned, throughout several similar processes, that the need to avoid the creation of professional orders is an obstacle to professional access and performance, for example, with mandatory stages and examinations of access to the profession, after graduation in higher education, disqualifying and devaluing often the public recognition of this teaching and becoming the order in a barrier in access to the profession. We know and know the express will of the social workers for several years for the creation of professional order, so the CFP will not hinder the creation of that same order, understanding that it is important to have a thorough debate on this matter. We understand that the importance of social workers in society, especially in realities that persist in injustice and social inequalities, playing these professionals a very important role in mitigating these injustices and inequalities, effectively demands conditions of unequivocal professional valorization. The CFP is available to discuss this matter, without abandoning the need to solve the labour problems of social workers and to dignify their profession. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two draft laws are under discussion today for the regulation, through order, of the profession of social worker. The concerns of social workers regarding the insufficient regulation of the exercise of their profession are valid and must deserve the concern of all of us. Certainly deserves the concern of the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must not fail to point out the importance of social workers who support and improve the lives of many Portuguese families on a daily basis. We speak of professionals always available, dedicated to causes and projects, who serve the most vulnerable, the elderly, people with disabilities, people in poverty, supporting thousands of families and organizations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u55	The importance of the work of social workers working in such important areas as social security and social action, health, education, vocational training and employment is clear. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u56	They often act in situations of great social sensitivity, which makes the intervention of these professionals a structural element for the guarantee of cohesion and social justice. They are professionals who deserve all our respect and recognition, they deserve a quality sector, with demanding criteria, especially in access to the profession. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important, then, to see whether the initiatives now presented respond correctly to the problems and aspirations of these professionals. We, PSD, have serious doubts that this is the case, on the one hand, because these proposals do not appear to have a framework in the current legal framework and, on the other hand, because we have already had evidence that, in some circumstances, the existence of orders does not guarantee full response to the regulatory needs of the professions, which has therefore demanded the intervention of the State. Finally, as explained in the legislation of the previous Government, we believe that the freedom of access and exercise of the profession is an essential condition for the free development of personality and is a necessary instrument to guarantee the right to work. The professions should be regulated, yes, but ensuring the simplification and elimination of unjustified barriers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u58	We, PSD, want an open society, with valued professions adapted to new realities and new challenges. We, PSD, do not mislead the socio-laboral reality of our days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u60	A society of free citizens and workers with full right to access and professional mobility is our view of society, a vision that guarantees a response to the concerns of social workers. The State cannot therefore resign itself from its role. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u61	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to begin by congratulating the social workers present here, as well as the work done by them and by them. They are an essential part of the social state that we want to develop and strengthen, and this is necessarily due to ensuring the working conditions of social workers. I must say, on an issue of honesty, that, in principle, the Left Block is against professional orders. We believe that they do not solve, self-regulation does not solve professional problems; we find that, often, as the reality shows, the orders end up as obstacles to access to the profession — and this has already been mentioned here — condemning, often, people who want to access the profession to unpaid internships or even worse working conditions, and we believe that professional orders deresponsibility to the State of their responsibility to ensure working conditions and regulation for all professionals, even more professionals who work mainly for the State. We recognize, however, the need to dignify the working conditions of social workers and assistants, to regulate the exercise of their profession and to provide the profession with a code of ethics and a minimum of coherence in the various ways in which it exercises itself in many and differentiated areas. We do not ignore, too — it must be said — the will of the professionals themselves and themselves to create an order. Therefore, even though we are, in principle, against the orders and recognizing the need and arguments that bring us here, the Left Block will not prevent the creation of a professional order, if that is the will of both the professionals and the professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u63	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on the general discussion of the projects of lein. 666 and 789 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), so we move on to the following point, in which joint analysis will be made of draft resolutions 1325 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( CDS-PP ) and 1383 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( PAN ). To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The way a government treats the country's historic heritage says a lot about itself. And sometimes worse than the lack of means to care for and respect our history and our heritage...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u65	Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, excuse me for interrupting you. I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who would avoid circulating in the Chamber with the abundance with which they are doing so. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that worse than the lack of means is the incuria, the irresponsibleness of political leaders and service leaders. It is often that game of pass-backs, of delaying decisions that often irreparably compromise the heritage that is of us all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u67	This is exactly what is happening in the Forte de Santo António da Barra, in São João do Estoril. In 2015, when this Forte — which is a strong history and was very relevant to the entire defensive line of Portugal at a certain very important historical moment — ceased to be used by the Ministry of Defence, the government then acted a protocol with the Cascais City Council to transfer this building to the municipality. The Cascais City Hall has always shown to have the interest, capacity and projects to ensure the maintenance of this space for a public purpose, but also honoring its history and its memory. Among other things, the Cascais City Hall showed that it wanted to place in that space the world headquarters of Biomarine, a very relevant institution in the defense of the seas, which makes all the sense in that place. The truth is that in 2016 and 2017, with the new government, and until today, in 2018, despite the personal commitment of Mr. President of the Republic, which we have signalled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u69	... despite the commitment of Mr. President of the Cascais Municipal Chamber, which we have pointed out, despite the pressure of a set of political parties, with the CDS at the head, despite the pressure of public opinion, the truth is that until today this Fort has not been transferred and the consequence of this was the vandalization of a very significant part of the Forte — of the pit, of the walls, of walls, the theft of many tile panels, tiles that are very relevant to our heritage, the vandalization of all the space, the graffitiing of all the space — which, of course, in some cases will be even irrecoverable. That is why the CDS did well to lead this debate and bring it to Parliament, because we have had very recent news that the Government for the first time now admits to making a protocol with the House of Cascais to pass this Forte to its possession, even if the Government does so in the wrong way, because the government wants to do so for only a year and then what will happen will soon happen. We want the government to keep the word of the State, which was to transfer this building to the Town Hall of Cascais to have a public use and purpose. That is why we will continue to beat ourselves. We did well to bring this debate to plenary, because other parties have followed the CDS, such as the Left Block and the PAN, and therefore we know that, by pressure from public opinion and political parties, the government has finally done something, even though the Government has not done everything and needs to do more to safeguard this important historic space. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Luís Marques Guedes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u70	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live at a time when public policies for safeguarding and valuing heritage are not a priority, indicating the State little commitment to the protection of some buildings. An example of this degradation of common memory is the deplorable state in which the Forte de Santo António da Barra, in Cascais. This military structure, built at the end of the 16th century, despite being classified as a property of public interest, is abandoned by the protection and mercy of vandalism, which is patent. However, since 2015 there is the possibility to recover and dynamize this Forte through the transfer of operating powers from the Government to the municipality of Cascais, which would allow the use of this property by the authorities. But more than ensuring the protection and recovery of this monument, we defend that its use, use and purpose remain public. We therefore propose urgent protection and prompt recovery of the Forte de Santo António da Barra, which includes the Forte Vellho in a broad national strategy for the dissemination of Portugal's cultural, historical and material heritage and maintaining its historical and cultural identity, protecting it from purely corporate and economic interests, thus ensuring its public utility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u72	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Forte de Santo António da Barra is a strong coastal for maritime defence, whose construction was integrated into the Philippine fortification program of the Tejo bar and which has the technical contribution of military engineers of Italian origin. It was constituted as the most important intermediate point of the coastal defense between the fortress of São Julião da Barra and the fortress of Our Lady of Light, also known as Cascais City, in addition to the Fort of São Lourenço da Cabeça Seca or Bugio. The state to which this property arrived in terms of degradation no longer reflects what decades and decades of right-wing policy with regard to our cultural heritage, namely the built heritage. Therefore, this sudden interest of the CDS in safeguarding it is still very curious, even taking into account the previous government's political practice in this matter. As far as this is concerned, we can remember precisely a list—and we well remember it—with more than 60 quartiles and strong that the PSD/CDS government wanted to privatize and for whose safeguard there were no contemplations. And if we follow the need to safeguard and dynamize the heritage — and so we will vote accordingly — we no longer follow the principle of ad hoc transfer of responsibility on the cultural heritage built for the authorities. As you know, it is a process that deserves the greatest of our reservations. In addition, several associations and trade unions in the area of archaeology and heritage have warned of the risk that this option can lead in terms of deepening degradation, technical difficulties that may arise, financial difficulties that will certainly be carried out as regards its maintenance, and a outcome for many and many cases is expected: privatization of heritage. Finally, we must not fail to point out that it is too late, and it even takes time to implement the proposal presented by the CFP in the State Budget for 2018 and that it establishes the implementation of a national programme for the emergence of cultural heritage for the conservation and preservation of the classified public edified heritage, or in ways of classification, at national level. It is urgent that this measure of the State Budget be complied with for 2018 and the CFP will continue to beat for its implementation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u74	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, we only partially follow up on the CDS proposal, as you will have the opportunity to verify. The Left Block Parliamentary Group looks at the urgency of the recovery and rehabilitation of the State's built heritage, so often neglected and in advance of degradation. This has been, in fact, the result of practices of successive governments repeated in the subordination of culture. The Forte de Santo António da Barra, in the Town Hall of Cascais, classified as a property of public interest since 1977, is another case of incuria. Built in 1590, in the time of Philip I, in order to defend the Tejo bar against attacks by British ships, he was the subject of several changes, especially after the Restoration in 1640, in the framework of a plan to reform the fortress along the Atlantic coast. He had multiple functions: he was at school, but he also served as a prison. In the mid-20th century it was remodeled and adapted to the summer residence of Salazar. It was there on 3 August 1968 that the dictator suffered the accident that disabled him and that would result in the so-called « spring marcelista », after all, the principle of the end of the New State. As can be seen, the Forte de Santo António da Barra carries with it the memory of centuries of the History of Portugal. That is why the state of abandonment in which it is found is unacceptable and I believe that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree on this. Two years ago, a fire in one of the divisions only had no disastrous consequences given the rapid intervention of firefighters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the question of the rehabilitation of heritage, once the public interest has been guarded and the symbolic value of monuments has been preserved, the Left Block Parliamentary Group accepts various solutions, but in no case can it de-responsible the State. in this case, we know of the existence of a protocol for the transfer of competences of the Ministry of Finance, to which the building belongs, to the Town Hall of Cascais, held in the operation of the former Government. The protocol, however — this is important and it was one of the reasons that led us to review our position — has never been put into practice. And being this 2015 protocol, it is, from our point of view, the most fundamental prudence to carry out its review in order to update its contours and to consider the consequences of its application. Until we are rehabilitated by the municipalities, we also know — let us not be hypocritical — of the pressures that are felt for the commercial promotion of spaces. Therefore, the Left Block insists on the need for urgent measures, but cannot fully follow the CDS proposal, obviously much closer to the proposals put forward by the NAP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u76	For an intervention, Mr Luís Marques Gudes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the CDS for having scheduled this matter. In fact, the Forte de Santo António da Barra is witnessing an incomprehensible situation of insecurity and inaction by the State. I am surprised, in any event, that the ideological prejudice, particularly by the PCP and the Left Block, is conditioning a quick solution of this subject, even above, because it is a misconception. The municipal chambers are State, the municipal chambers are public entities. This ideological prejudice that the property must remain in the public sphere is obviously safeguarded, provided that responsibility for management — and not ownership — is transferred, because it will always continue to be the state’s heritage — to the authorities. It was, moreover, what happened, and has happened, along the coast, from the end of Roca to Lisbon, in the municipality of Cascais : the transfer of the management of the Forte de Oitavos and the Forteza de Cascais, the latter being the jewel of the crown within that territory, in terms of defense of the coast. Obviously, the Forte de Santo António da Barra, in the contractualization that the State makes with the chamber for the sale of management, can and should be conditioned in its use for purposes of public interest. Of course! But that is what the State has done in recent years—and has done over the first decade of this century—by transferring management to the Town Hall of Cascais of the Forte de Oitavos, the Forte do Abano, the Forteza de Cascais, the Fort of Our Lady of Light, and now that it is asked to do too and that it does not continue with fallen arms relative to the Forte de Santo António da Barra. There is no reason for the ideological prejudice expressed here. What is happening is that the central State obviously has no conditions, no means or sensitivity, because it does not have the proximity to the buildings, to recover and maintain that heritage. Give your management to the municipal chambers, whether they are the PSD, the PCP — and I am not going to say the Left Block, because there are no them at the moment — or any other political party. The municipal chambers are state! Don't have that prejudice! [[PCP protests.]] Having said this, I obviously want to call into question, in a way, the final part of the draft resolution of the NAP, because it defends, and I do not know whether for ideological reasons or not, maintenance in the state sphere, provided it is understood and that is, in fact, understanding — by Mr André Silva's words, it seems to me that this is the understanding — that municipalities are also State, because they are indeed State. What is necessary is that the Portuguese State contract with the Cascais City Council the use of that property, condition its use for public purposes—for sure, we will all agree with that—and there will be both the state and the chamber to defend the proper execution of that contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u78	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u79	What we can't do is have a state that doesn't do or lets it do, you have to let it do. And the Town Hall of Cascais wants to do, the municipality of Cascais wants to do. Let the municipality of Cascais do it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u80	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would very much like to say that, when we talk about heritage in this House, it would not always start by drawing a black picture and that it would be recognized that, in the last 20 years, this country has made an extraordinary leap towards the recovery of heritage. Through the different governments, going through the country, from north to south, there was in fact a significant improvement and, through the municipal chambers and governments, there was a silent revolution in the national heritage which is also important here to underline. But there is undoubtedly a serious situation of accelerated deterioration of the Forte de Santo António, since the Forte ceased its function as a holiday colony of the Institute of Odivelas. Now, the best way to preserve heritage is to give it life, mission, a place in the social life of the community. And the Forte de Santo António really has to find another destination, but within the framework of a national strategy of memory preservation, historical identity and tourism-cultural activity. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to ensure this transfer of mission and objectives. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nothing prevents it from being linked to the local power, provided that fundamental principles of protection of material and immaterial values associated with the identity of this heritage are guaranteed, and that it is ensured that it is included in a comprehensive public service strategy to serve the culture, knowledge and enrichment of the national supply. thus, from the central or decentralized state in local power, the heritage, which is of all, can continue to carry out its mission. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Forte de Santo António is located in Cascais and that, between the municipality of Cascais and the state, there are pending a set of unresolved heritage situations, Mr Mota Soares, which have prevented a good solution between the parties. This has been the real problem, which has been dragging for two years. The municipality of Cascais is in non-compliance with the State, either with regard to the return of property to the State for non-compliance with the purposes to which they were transferred, or due to the lack of payment of income, the amount of which in January 2018 amounted to more than €400,000, in particular to €403,005, €89. There are other strong ones on the coast of Cascais. I have heard here about the various strengths and the work of their integration in Cascais. There are other strong ones, such as the Old Guincho Fort and the Forte de São Teodósio da Cadaveira. These two forts are examples of forts already handed over to the municipality of Cascais and who are leaving. Cascais abandoned these forts, let them ruin them. And the works he was obliged to and committed to do were never done. There was no real will of the municipality, since 2009, to integrate them into the cultural and tourist economy of Cascais, opting to return them to the state. A responsible intervention in the forts of the coast of Cascais should be designed in order to obey a global strategy, not to the taste of the casuistic appetite of the municipal decision maker. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u82	The State has an obligation to ensure that the process of partnership with the Authority is consistent and comprehensive within the framework of a strategy for the coast of Cascais and that it decorates in full compliance with all obligations of the party. Of course, in this process, heritage cannot be allowed to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u83	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. in this sense, we are fully supportive of the concern presented here by all, in particular by the draft resolution of the NAP. We want the State to intervene to avoid the degradation situation. But this must be done within the framework of a serious protocol, a protocol which, in fact, compromises all parties to the fulfilment of their obligations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u85	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has asked for the floor to speak again in the remaining six seconds, in a containment exercise which will surely be remarkable. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'll try not to talk too fast. Ask Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas not to draw a black picture of the Forte de Santo António da Barra. I admit that the honourable Member has not been to visit the Forte recently, but I can tell you that at the moment the picture is black. By inaction of the State, because of the irresponsibility of the central State, that Forte, which is heritage of all, is being vandalized, is being destroyed and part of this destruction is irrecoverable. It also calls on Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas to do this under a broader protocol. Mrs. Member, this protocol exists, it has been signed since 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u87	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u88	... there is no question of the relationship between the central State and the Cascais City Council,... [[Protests by PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]] ...so much so that next week a protocol will be signed for the transfer of the Forte to the Cascais City Council — which, by the way, Mrs Deputy does not know — which proves that there is no question. Fundamentally, it was for the central State to assume its obligations, to allow itself to safeguard a heritage that is of all and to transfer it to the House, which has this possibility, this capacity, this interest and these projects. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u89	Who is in breach is the Town Hall of Cascais!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u90	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1317 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency plan for the National Health Service ( PCP ), 1363 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greater autonomy for the hiring of professionals by the entities of the National Health Service ( BE ), 1375 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of current hospitals under public-private partnership ( BE), 1384 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the National Health Service, ensuring that all citizens have access to quality and timely care ( CDS-PP ) and 1385/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a plan for improving the National Health Service ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is only better health for everyone with more and better National Health Service ( SNS ). Aware that the SNS situation needs immediate answers, that it requires the rupture with the right policy and the adoption of an alternative policy, the PCP today presents an emergency plan for the National Health Service. The plan we propose includes: the strengthening of investment for the retraining and construction of health and hospitals; the replacement and renewal of equipment and the extension of valences in primary health care; the recruitment of professionals of all categories, giving them working conditions, restoring rights and valuing careers; the allocation of family doctors and nurses to all users; the reduction of waiting times for consultations and surgeries; the reversal of PPPs, ensuring the public management of hospitals currently in PPP management; the repeal of moderate rates and the guarantee of transport of non-emergency patients. They are proposals to defend and strengthen the SNS, to guarantee the rights of users and professionals. The National Health Service, users and professionals require clear answers and no tibias to respond to the emergency situation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every day the users of the National Health Service and their professionals are confronted with the serious consequences of decades of right-wing policy carried out by PS, PSD and CDS and that the PS government is slow to break. There are 2 million users missing from consultations, because they cannot afford the costs with transport, and 10, 8 % do not buy all the medication they need. Diagnostic surgeries and complementary examinations are not performed due to equipment failure. Increased waiting times for specialist consultations in the overwhelming majority of SNS hospitals. There are users without a family doctor, including babies. There is a shortage of health professionals, persistent delays and incomprehensible in opening competitions for their hiring. There is public resources bleeding for large economic groups operating in health, either through PPPs or through agreements and conventions. All of this is examples of the consequences of right-wing policy. That is the policy that needs to be said" enough! Do not keep on seeking. ” Ensuring Portuguese the right of access to health care requires, as the PCP advocates, the strengthening of investment in the National Health Service, the replacement of users' rights, the appreciation of industry professionals and the fight against the privatization of health. That is the proposal that the CFP makes here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u92	To present the two draft resolutions of the authorship of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of democracy in Portugal and represents one of the most edifying moments of our time. The idea that health should be general, universal and free was a great achievement, but it has always, well we know, opponents and enemies: from the start the CDS-PP, which was against the constitution of the National Health Service ; then, the PSD and the CDS-PP, at the time of the revision of the Basic Law of 1990, introduced harmful norms, such as for example, that of the State must promote private people in health and not, itself, invest in the National Health Service ; but also many rulers who passed through various executives, such as Oscar Gaspar, who is now in front of the lobby of the private administration and who was Secretary of State of a Government of the Socialist Party. Many enemies therefore have the National Health Service for this country outside. Although we know that it is absolutely necessary, their enemies try to weaken it by various means. Now, the left block proposals do not weaken the National Health Service, on the contrary they come to protect it. We want to release the National Health Service from the parasitism of private people in health, who only have in mind their business and therefore bring discussion and vote a proposal for the end, once and for all, with public-private partnerships (PPP ) in health. I raise a very simple question, ladies and gentlemen. Members: why are we all paying around 500 million euros a year to the Health Light, to the José de Mello Group, to the Luxury Health to do what the state does much better than they do? Why spend 500 million euros with these economic groups when so much resources are lacking in the National Health Service? We say, therefore, that it is time to put an end to this reintism, this parasitism that sucks the resources of the National Health Service. And we know that the government has not been doing what it should. In fact, it renewed and relaunched public-private partnerships, which we consider to be wrong on the part of the government. And the challenge we have brought to the Assembly of the Republic is that the various parliamentary groups, the ladies and gentlemen. Members assume here the intransigent defense of the National Health Service and do not enable the renewal of PPPs and, on the contrary, they fight and vote for its end. One of the projects we present also seeks to release the National Health Service from subordination to the obsession of deficit. The National Health Service needs more resources, more investment, cannot be subordinated to the deficit, cannot be subordinated to the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. We want to ensure that professionals are effectively required to the National Health Service and, therefore, we present this draft resolution, so that the various units of the National Health Service have autonomy to hire these professionals. The question I leave is as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, are you available to make this intransigent defense of the National Health Service with the Left Block? Let's hope they are. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u94	To present the draft resolution of your Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The SNS is wrong and, unfortunately, we have to say, two years ago we have been pointing out aspects that have already been discussed here today. If there is a topic that, by its gravity, has been relevant and important to the CDS, it is precisely the monitoring of the reality of health and what happens with the SNS. There is clearly a brutal discrepancy between what is the government's propaganda speech and what is reality, the reality Portuguese feel, the reality that health professionals live in the field and that it is no longer possible to hide. We deeply regret that. We have said several times here, in plenary, that the Minister of Health is increasingly holding money. It is not just the captives, it is the minister himself who is a child, because the finances, unfortunately, have chosen to sacrifice public investment and thus compromise the quality of the National Health Service, its quality of care and its sustainability. Otherwise, let us see: proof of this is the extent to which it was announced yesterday, from the Council of Ministers — we would like to hear what the parties supporting the government have to say — about the creation of a mission unit structure that will centralize the issue of finance in health. What is this, but to minimize the Minister of Health? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u96	What is this, or continue to enslave him? What is this, but to undermine the autonomy of the Minister of Health, who, regretably and clearly, is manipulated and harmed? It is Brussels, moreover, that alerts us to debt problems and that this is also compromising the sustainability of the National Health Service. A mission unit like this does nothing more than strengthen centralism, undermine the autonomy of institutions to hire human resources, to renew the equipment, what the CDS, with so much insistence, has spoken here. The human resources of health are tired, exhausted, dissatisfied and not worth realizing that it is not. This government, which is evidently missing in combat, is government two and a half years ago! Where is the responsibility, where are the concrete measures, more than the promises, which are systematically being announced? Obviously, we want concrete measures, and that is why we presented this project. We have tabled a number of proposals which, unfortunately, have been plunged by parties that support the government, parties who come here today to point the finger, but which have sanctioned the Budget, which allows what is happening. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For the CDS, and without any kind of ideological prejudice—because, above all, we put the interests of users in front of ideologies—what makes sense is that the government, which is responsible and, more than continuing with announcements, takes concrete action. That is clearly what we propose in the 18 measures that our draft resolution contains. SNS must be a priority, no longer a mirage and being captured by finance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u97	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary groups of the PCP, the Bloc, the Greens and the CDS, as a result of their assessments regarding the current situation of the National Health Service, understood to present the initiatives under review in order to recommend to the Government the implementation of an emergency plan as well as a set of measures for the National Health Service. But there are certainly two very different plans here. Indeed, the proposals on the left correspond to the usual and coherent assessment of the PCP and the Block and do not, in our view, constitute a use of circumstances of some SNS problems, as has recently been the stamp of the opposition of the PSD and, above all, of the CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] However, if we look at some critical aspects that are presented and which fit the objectives set by the Government in its Health Programme, as well as various measures in progress or planned until the end of the legislature, we cannot fail to point out that the different draft resolutions give rise to differences and reservations. Differences as to the designation and qualification of draft resolutions and reservations as to the justification for the proposed measures and the desired objectives, as well as the content of the recommendations contained in the initiatives currently under discussion. These initiatives aim to implement an emergency plan for the SNS. Now, an emergency is an unexpected, unforeseen or accidental occurrence that significantly changes the circumstances and requires exceptional, standardized or not measures to recover the affected normality. Surely, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case at all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the SNS has known difficulties and problems, which are not new and which are in the process of progressive correction or elimination since 2016 through which we can call a « recovery and improvement plan », with enhanced funding, with more human resources, with more investment, with more assistance activity. Its current situation cannot, however, be considered a bankruptcy situation nor, so little, can it be considered to be lacking in an emergency plan. If so, how would the situation be classified over the period 2011 to 2015? at that time, to remind me, no one presented an emergency plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u99	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u100	It therefore seems excessive and disproportionate in the face of a realistic diagnosis of the situation, the consideration of any emergency plan which, in addition to that, overlaps with the government plan being implemented. You're different, ladies. Members, it will be that of consideration — depending on the improvement of the budgeted conditions, provided by the current majority — of incentives aimed at accelerating or strengthening the implementation of measures already planned or, even, of new measures that improve the capacity and performance of the SNS. That's what you're talking about, ladies. Members, we could not agree more, so the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented its draft resolution recommending to the Government an improvement plan for the National Health Service, improvements which have been implemented and which are, in fact, essential for the robustness of the SNS and for this course to continue to guarantee responsiveness, in a fair and more quality way, to all users. We are aware that there is still a long way to go, but we also know that, from three years to this part, there have been remarkable improvements in guaranteeing the right to health. The Socialist Party will be available to welcome different ideas advocated by parliamentary groups to achieve a harmonisation of positions. We admit different worldviews, but cooperation always allows us to find balanced solutions that do not represent programmatic capitulations and that allow us to anticipate a public and rational debate of public health policies, placing the citizen at the center of the system as an essential pillar of the construction of the democratic building. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u101	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Please, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that, in recent decades, the various governments, as a whole of their priorities, have generally referred the social functions of the State to second or third plans—if, in the case of the social functions of the State, one can indeed speak of a real and effective priority—it is also true that, during the years of governance of the PSD and the CDS, the Portuguese families felt and lived, as never before, the effects of this extreme and impious devaluation at the level of the social functions of the State. And if it is true that the options of the PSD-CDS government and the way in which it 'looks' for the social functions of the State and public services were felt at all levels and in all dimensions, from education to justice, it is also true that the health area was, indisputably, one of the areas most affected by the dogma of austerity with which the previous government blindly guided all its political decisions that had to do with the social functions of the State and, in particular, with the area of health. In fact, if we tried today to define the strategy that gave shape to the previous government's health policies, we would not escape much of a synthesis that can be translated into four central axes: first, blind cuts in an area as sensitive as is the health area; second, closure of services throughout the country; third, a deliberate effort to push health costs for users; and finally, the intention practically assumed to favour large private economic groups with interests in the area of health. Now, it is this way of looking at an area as important as health that it is necessary to change and that it is necessary to invert. As much as it costs some, the truth is that some steps have already been taken to counter these policies, which have left health fragile as never before, and however, we already have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in various areas. But there is still a lot left, as you also testify to the number of initiatives now under discussion and all with the aim of strengthening the SNS. There is so much need for an emergency plan for the National Health Service: a plan that puts a brake on its under-funding and puts public investment in health at the heart of priorities in order to ensure health care for all Portuguese people; a plan that puts an end to public-private partnerships in the field of health, not only so that the State again assumes responsibilities that are theirs but also to end the idea, I would even say, a little clumsy look at people's diseases as a business opportunity; and, finally, a plan that evaluates health professionals, in particular as regards their working conditions, but also the replacement of rights and the dignity of their careers. I have heard Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto say—and I finish—that the CDS has been denouncing the state in which the National Health Service is located two years ago. I wanted to tell you that the National Health Service has not been bad for only two years, it has been bad for a long time. In fact, the transition from PSD and CDS to the previous government has made it much worse. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Therefore, the National Health Service has been bad for a long time. If the CDS-PP only discovered the state in which the SNS is located two years ago, what is there to say? We're sorry! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u103	Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss five recommendations to the Government that reveal well the state of degradation in which our National Health Service is located. It is unfortunate that these recommendations are late for political debate. And they're late because the PSD Parliamentary Group has long complained about the health sector's problems. A year ago we presented a draft resolution recommending that the Government manage with responsibility and investment the resources of the National Health Service, an initiative rejected by the current left-wing front. Two years ago, at the initiative of the PSD, a resolution was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in which a sustainable SNS was defended, with quality health care and access equity. The government had only to comply with what Parliament recommended. As you did not, the result is in the eyes of all and is already recognized by the parties of the Government when they present these bold motions of censure to the Minister of Health. [[PSD applause.]] PCP now wants an emergency plan for the SNS. But, then, does the SNS need an emergency plan, after two and a half years of the communists being in power? Oh, my God! [[Protests of PCP Members.]] The Left Block wants more autonomy for hospitals and, of course, the old and cheated fixation of partnerships. Mrs. Members, but hospitals today have no more autonomy, with the Bloc to strongly support the government since 2015? [[Protests of BE Members.]] On the other hand, the Socialist Party's draft resolution — in fact, symptomatically only subscribed by Mr António Sales — is truly delicious to read. Celebrate, between truths, half truths and some invertities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u105	What are the reverses? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u106	... the glorious advances of the National Health Service in the last two and a half years and makes some recommendations, one with sense, one with no meaning. I would recommend that the Government — and I would quote, Mr President — continue to strengthen public investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u107	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u108	... it is simply hilarious, when we remember that government public investment in SNS has fallen almost 30 % since 2015. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u109	It was almost 30 %, sir! [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Now to recommend to the Government the "improvement of the National Health Service" is the culmination of political unrest when it has been in power for two and a half years. But, then, the SNS wasn't much better already than in 2015? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese know well that they don't. Users know - when they wait longer for consultations and operations, they know - when they live the chaos in emergencies, they know - when they do not have access to the remedies, you know - when they finally suffer the effects of the captives of the Ministry of Finance on investments in the SNS. They also know that when health professionals are repeatedly misled by the government in inconsequential labour negotiations, they know - when they wait for months for non-open competitions, they know - when the government denies them the power to negotiate the hours and services which it requires them to provide. They know, yet, and the honourable Members. Members cannot deny it, the SNS suppliers, who are obliged to finance the policies of the Finance Minister's deficit, because the government does not pay them what they owe and let the SNS debt flow to more than EUR 2000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u110	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u111	Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the National Health Service needs is more investment in equipment, more efficiency in management and more humanization in patient care. [[Protests by PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz.]] The PSD will always be at the service of the Portuguese, but will not deal with authentic theater numbers that only try to deceive citizens and help government parties escape the responsibilities they have in the current policy of degradation of our National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u112	For a second intervention, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u113	Mr President, indeed, what we have seen today in this debate were even different plans of political action: the plan of propaganda and irresponsibility, the plan of the front of the united left, which claims, but then it is really inconsequential, because it supports and punishes the government, which is leading the SNS to chaos, and the plan of seriousness, the plan of who knows the reality, knows the problems and does not choose to deny the obvious or act like the ostrich, putting the head under the sand. [[Protests by PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz.]] The SNS is wrong, and we regret, because we value the SNS as a pillar of social cohesion. It is necessary that those who govern today take effective measures and that those who are on the left parliamentary benches are not irresponsible because, when the CDS proposes measures, they say they are demagogic, but when the other parties present measures with the same objective, they are already responsible, they are already fantastic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u114	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u115	We regret prejudice and, yes, Mr Greens, we are sorry, we are very sorry, but it is your irresponsibility and your convience with this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u116	For a second intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with a sentence that will certainly be very well welcomed by the CDS-PP bench : « Good Preach Friar Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is what the CDS-PP does, because, in fact, the recommendations it brings try to ignore everything it did when it was in government. Do you want investment now? But how many billions of investments have you taken from the National Health Service? Do you want to hire professionals? Do you still remember the 4000 you expelled from the National Health Service? « Well prays frigi Tomás », but so no one will take the CDS-PP bench seriously, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u118	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, said that there are five recommendations under discussion, but he forgot to say that none is from the PSD. Why? Because, really, the PSD does not have much to propose for the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u120	You rejected our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u121	The history of the PSD speaks for itself, Mr. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u122	To close the debate, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS and the PSD only say bad about the SNS with only one objective, that of denying public service to favour the large economic groups that operate in health. [[There he is! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u124	That was the policy that they made throughout your government, and that is the policy that they would like to see continued. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PS came to say that today the PCP presents an emergency plan, but in the past it did not. I would like to remind the Socialist Party that the PCP, over several years, and during the governance of PSD / CDS-PP, presented several emergency plans for the National Health Service and concrete proposals. Mr. PS says he doesn't understand the emergency. Mr President, how does it respond to the 2 million Portuguese who failed to consult because they were unable to pay? What do you say to the 10, 8% of Portuguese who couldn't buy medication? How does it explain to patients who did not see their surgeries performed because the equipment was damaged?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u125	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u126	What is important for the Socialist Party is to break with the policy on the right, and the proposals we present today are proposals that break with this policy, are the proposals that the SNS needs and are the answers why the professionals and users of the National Health Service are anxious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we move on to the fifth item on the agenda, without time allocated for discussion, of which are the drafts of lein.o 762 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Bertiandos and Santa Comba, of the municipality of Ponte Lima ( CDS-PP ), 612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the union of the parish of Poceirão and Marateca and of the parish of Palmela, of the city of Palmela ( PSD ) and 775 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial administrative limits of the parish of Palmela and the union of the parish of Poceirão and Marateca, in the municipality of Palmela ( PCP ). of the sixth point, also without time allocated for discussion, are the motions for resolutions 61 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 50 ( a ). the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and 64 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 56. the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal, on 6 October 2016. Mrs. Members, the voting period is followed. While the services prepare the electronic table for quorum verification, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to make some announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1389 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — CETA and EU Economic Partnership Agreement — Japan — Outermost regions — Impact and opportunity assessment ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1390 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Regional Azores Government, take the necessary measures for a political link that enhances the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of that Autonomous Region ( CDS-PP ), 1393 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the rivers Antuã, Ul, Insua and Caima ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1394 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the construction process of the new Algarve ( CFP ) prison establishment, which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u129	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not yet done so to register to proceed with the verification of the quorum of deliberation. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 201 meetings, to which Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mrs Josés Mortágua, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Renato Sampaio, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and Mr João Torres, the PS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, thus making 207 Members, so we have the quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin with votes 492 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulations on the commemoration of the International Women's Day presented by the CFP, and 493 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the International Women's Day, submitted by Members of the Subcommission for Equality and Non-Discrimination, and signed by Members of the PS and PSD, for which 2 minutes were requested to be allocated to each parliamentary group for a debate period. For an intervention, Mrs Edite Estrela of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every year, there are those who ask whether the International Women's Day is still justified. The answer is obvious: it is justified - as long as there are wage disparities between men and women; it is justified - as long as women have to choose between being mothers and performing leadership functions, because they cannot reconcile professional life with family life; it is justified - as long as there is the glass ceiling that prevents women from accessing power and decision-making in political and economic life, although they represent 60% of graduates and doctors; it is justified - as long as there are women victims of violence and murdered because they are merely women. There have been advances, of course, but there have also been setbacks. We want to congratulate the Government on the important steps it has taken, on behalf of the PS, that the proposals adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers are a good example. We must dare, we must go further. An example also comes from the Secretary-General of the United Nations. As Antonio Guterres says, gender equality is a human rights issue, one of the most important human rights issues. It's not a favor to women. Women do not want favors, indeed, what they want are rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With António Guterres, the United Nations first achieved gender parity in all places of leadership. These are the examples we should adopt, these are the examples we should follow, and it has been what the Socialist Party has done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u131	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u132	Finally, Mr President, by greeting all women, asking them not to give up fighting for a more just society, I appeal that it is extended to men. Women are not alone, they can count on PS. [[P.S. and P.S. MP Gabriela Canavilhas, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u133	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP would like, indeed, yesterday, to welcome the International Women's Day. The International Women's Day is to celebrate the struggle of every day, because it continues to have a huge current to mark the International Women's Day, placing it in its roots. And on the roots of the International Women's Day, on a proposal from Clara Zetkin, a communist leader in 1910 was three central demands: the eight hours of work, the right to vote and the same work for equal pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u136	Unfortunately, Mr. President and Mr. Members of Parliament, over 100 years ago, continue to have a great deal of time to fight women workers and women in general for the right to equality in rights and in the family, in the role of family, society and in the world of work. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] That is why there is still a huge current struggle against wage discrimination, because, Mr. Members, the workers of Vitrohm, a multinational company, continue to be discriminated against in our country because they are women, because of the inefficiencies of the previous government, but also because of the current government. Women remain at the forefront of unemployment and precariousness; women remain the main victims of all forms of violence. That is why, if women's rights were, firstly, a conquest of their brave and determined struggle, also today the heirs of generations of women, and women fighters, have an obligation to continue this struggle, which in itself is a struggle for a more just and developed country. The International Women's Day has been marked throughout the country with important days of struggle, such as the one that happened here yesterday, at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, by workers of large areas, who continue to fight not only against indirect wage discrimination but also by the right to link family, professional and personal life, and by workers of many IPSSs in this country, who continue to have extraordinary work paid far beyond what would be necessary and who therefore continue to fight for a country where workers' rights continue, every day, to be respected. The CFP welcomes the struggle that was waged yesterday and that will continue to be waged and appeals to all women and men to participate in the demonstration led by the Democratic Movement of Women ( MDM ) tomorrow at 15 hours from Lisbon and that will make a decisive contribution to strengthening workers' rights and to a more just country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u137	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Regina Bastos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To celebrate International Women's Day is to remember that many progress has been made in the achievement of equal rights between women and men. It is also to remember that, despite these enormous progress, there is still a long way to go. It welcomes the measures taken over these years by the PSD governments and, in particular, by the PSD/CDS-PP government over the past few years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u139	To celebrate this day is to bear in mind that human rights are the basic rights of all human beings, whether women or men. Gender equality in our society requires that we do not ignore the phenomenon of domestic violence and that we deeply regret the deaths and assaults of women at the hands of their companions, husbands and lovers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u141	There are many challenges to meet. I remember that wage inequality, where Portuguese women earn less than 17, 9% than men work for free 79 days a year — this is an unsustainable situation that does not honor or dignify our society. Another challenge is the under-representation of women in decision-making bodies of companies, in chief positions. Portugal is still far from the European average. Another challenge that governments have to take into account is the disparity between women and men in pensions — women earn less than men during their active lives and women employed, especially mothers, are particularly disadvantaged. And this has consequences: lower labour income, lower retirement pension and more risk of poverty and social exclusion than men of the same age.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u142	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u143	The challenge still to be achieved is the fair distribution of household tasks and the reconciliation between working life and family life. To celebrate this Women's Day is to trust that all — women, men, governments, employers and civil society — will not fade away in order to end inequalities between women and men, because that is the only way we can achieve a just community. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u144	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, a group of Members. Members were invited, on the occasion of Women's Day, to go to the Academy of Sciences to attend a ceremony in which students from the Pedro Nunes High School and the Passos Manuel High School were present...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u146	There's no high school anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u147	I'm sorry, students of the Pedro Nunes High School and the Manuel High School — is always attentive to Mrs Rita Rato, or was not a very present woman in this House. in this ceremony, six women scientists gave their testimony with their journey in the field of science. In the end, the panel of the gentlemen. Members were also invited to intervene. Three Mrs were present. Members, three illustrious colleagues of this House by the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party, and I was by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. There was a student from schools—I don't know which one—who asked why it was still relevant or what was the great advantage of women in decision-making places. The three of us. Members, men, quickly went to the microphone and presented their explanations on the importance of this parity, all more or less marked by the ideological line of each Member, but the three gave an answer. I've been to the end. In the end, I was given the floor and, in my view, this was the most graphic explanation of why a Woman's Day still makes sense: it makes sense there is Woman's Day because it is to the woman who is to have her voice of explanation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u149	I don't need men to give that explanation for me, even if it's very kind. [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]] It's up to women to speak by their own voice! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In the meantime, while Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, feel that they have more ability to give this explanation for me, even though I really like to receive flowers on Women's Day, that right will not be fully achieved and that, yes, is the time that has not yet arrived. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u150	On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem is when women like the former workers of Triumph or as workers of Ricon and other companies also have no voice in this society, because they do not give them the dignity they deserve. That is why the Greens take advantage of this intervention, concerning the votes of the International Women's Day, to greet all, all, the women who, day by day, fight for more rights, for more equality, for dignity, how many times with so many adversitys. And one of them is just this growing gap — I repeat, growing! — between the wage base of men and the wage base of women, aggravated in the years of governance of the PSD and the CDS. The wage gap between men and women was greater in 2016 than in 2010, and therefore this governance increased this gap and this inequality. Even today, women are the victims of the lowest wages and are also the victims of greater precariousness, higher levels of unemployment and discrimination due to maternity. It makes no sense, absolutely nothing, that a woman, in the middle of the 21st century, is still questioned in a job interview about whether or not she intends to be a mother in the short term so she withdraws availability for what employers consider to be the factor of greater productivity in companies, availability, which is completely wrong. It is this well-being and this will to reconcile, both men and women, professional life with family life that also generates greater well-being and hence greater productivity in companies. Therefore, it is also this mindset of the holding that has to be definitely altered. Women are still quite victims of sexual harassment at the workplace, they are still the biggest victims of poverty, the biggest victims of violence, the biggest victims of prostitution and trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u153	It is for these reasons and for so many others, Mr President — and I do finish — that the Greens also call for a strong mobilization and a strong participation in the demonstration that tomorrow the Democratic Movement of Women organizes just to guarantee and fight for these rights. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u154	To conclude these interventions, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We celebrated yesterday International Women's Day. Throughout the world, in a struggle that is necessarily international, women and men have manifested themselves on the streets or on the workplace by a more just and equal society. It is not just a matter of pointing out who is an unmistakable milestone in the history of women's emancipation. It is a day to win a balance to continue the fight for rights that are consistently denied to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u157	Here, and throughout the world, the secular oppression of a patriarchal system that aims at subalterning and minimizing women because they are women, maintains and encourages gender stereotypes that condition educational and professional choices; maintains and promotes wage inequality and segregation in positions of leadership and leadership; maintains and promotes unequal political participation and representation, unequal distribution in the exercise of parental and domestic responsibilities and in the reconciliation between family, professional and personal life; maintains and promotes the feminization of precariousness, poverty and social exclusion; naturalizes the harassment and intimidation of women at work, at school, in the public space; accuses and legitimizes the trafficking of women, sexual exploitation and rape; maintains and promotes domestic violence and the death of so many and so many women in the hands of companions or former companions. The objective of equality requires the fight against installed macho culture and the courage to change the structures of established power, stereotyped roles and oppression of women. Be feminism, equality between men and women, the commitment of the decisions taken here, in this House, that March 8 is marked and commemorated by the achievements of the past and not by the struggles yet to be stopped. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u158	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 492 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the commemoration of the International Day of Women ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 493/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the International Women's Day, submitted by Members of the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination and subscribed by PS and PSD Members. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 494 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulations on the relaunching of the Western Sahara negotiating process submitted by BE, which will be read by Secretary Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Saharan people have been waiting for more than 40 years for justice to which they have the right: that international law be fulfilled and that they be given the right to be a self-determined people. Within the framework of the United Nations, the negotiating process on Western Sahara was relaunched, through UN Security Council Resolution 2351, of April 2017. This resolution states “all support for the commitment of the Secretary-General and his personal envoy in the sense of a solution to the question of Western Sahara in this context to relaunch the negotiation process with a new dynamic and a new spirit leading to the resumption of a political process, whose aim will be to achieve a mutually acceptable political solution, which provides for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara in the context of agreements consistent with the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter (...)”. Within this process and following other meetings, a meeting took place in Lisbon on 6 March, between the personal envoy of Secretary-General António Guterres, Horst Köhler, with high representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, with a view to the continuation of this negotiation and the inclusion in that Resolution of the United Nations Security Council. The importance of the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 27 February cannot be ignored in this case, according to which the Fisheries Agreement between the European Union and Morocco — as already decided in 2016 on the Agreement on Agricultural Products — does not apply to Western Sahara, Non-Self-Governing Territory or its territorial waters. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the resumption of the negotiating process on Western Sahara under the aegis of the United Nations and expresses its deep conviction that this is a time for a political solution that guarantees the realization of the right to self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u160	Mrs. Members, let us vote 494 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Miranda Calha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u161	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u162	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u163	Mr President, in order to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u164	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Neves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u165	Mr President, in order to inform the Bureau that, with regard to this vote, I shall, together with Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa, deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u166	Of course! Be registered. Mr Nuno Magalhães asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u167	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u168	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. We now vote on draft resolution No 1369 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movements by the President of the Republic abroad from 15 March to 30 April ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 110 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the system of the largest accompanying, in place of the institutes of prohibition and incapacity. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 795 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence, ill-treatment, kidnapping or violation of the food obligation ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 796 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1379/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt mechanisms to support decision-making in compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and Maria da Luz Rosinha and abstentions from PSD and PS.]] We proceed with the vote of two requests, submitted by the authors of their initiatives, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a vote for a period of 60 days on draft law No 666 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of social workers ( PS ) and another concerning draft law No 789 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of social workers ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN and vote against PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u169	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u170	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u171	Mr President, in order to inform the Bureau that I shall submit a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u172	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 1325/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( CDS-PP ) for which the PS and the PCP requested the empowerment of the vote under points 1 and 2. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1383 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( PAN ) ( the text was replaced at the request of the author ) for which the CDS-PP requested a separate vote from point 4. We shall therefore vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1 to 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1317/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Emergency plan for the National Health Service ( PCP ), for which the PS and the NAP requested the empowerment of the vote of points 3 and 10. We shall therefore vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 10. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1, 2 and 4 to 9 of draft resolution No 1317 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1363 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greater autonomy for the hiring of professionals by the National Health Service ( BE ) entities. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD and PS.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1375 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of current hospitals under public-private partnership ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1384 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the National Health Service, ensuring that all citizens have access to quality and timely care ( CDS-PP ). The Left Block and the NAP requested the empowerment of the vote on points 2, first, 17, then and the rest at the end. We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP and with abstentions of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 17. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1, 3 to 16 and 18 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1385/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a plan for improving the National Health Service ( PS ) for which the CFP requested the three-block vote in the first paragraph of points 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7, second paragraph 4 and last paragraph 3 and 9. Let us then begin by voting on points 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on points 3 and 9 of draft resolution No 1385/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Votes in favour of PS, CDS-PP and PAN and PSD, BE, PCP and Greens abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u173	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u174	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u175	Mr President, with regard to the vote on draft resolution No 1384 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) in the breakdown between points 2 and 17 we need to correct our sense of vote: in point 2 it is in favour, and it is not abstention; in point 17 it is abstention. Mr President, this correction does not alter the outcome of the vote, which is the adoption of the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u176	Therefore, in point 2, the fact that the CFP votes in favour does not change the direction of vote. It is therefore noted that the CFP voted in favour of point 2. We shall generally vote for Bill No 762 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Bertiandos and Santa Comba, of the municipality of Ponte Lima ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 612 / XIII ( 3 ) in general, in the overall speciality and finality. ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Union of Frequencies of Poceirão and Marateca and the parish of Palmela of Palmela ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The CFP calls for voting in general, in specialty and in global final vote a bill that is exactly the same as this one. Well, it won't go wrong to the world if it's voted. So, let's proceed to the vote on the bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u178	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u179	Mr President, the PSD believes that since draft law No 612 / XIII ( 3 ) was approved in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote. ( a ) which has preceded what Mr President has now put to the vote, and having the very same object now, the vote is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u181	Mr President, I ask you not to excessively prolong this incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u182	Mr. President, I will not prolong. I had recently informed the Bureau that there would be damage if there were a solution different from the one that was approved. Having no parliamentary groups and having the right to vote on their initiatives, we want our bill to be voted on, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u183	Sir, I don't know if that's exactly the way it is. We will have to see this until the Conference of Leaders, because we have already had situations in which several votes on the reform of the party financing law have been damaged today and last week, and none of the parties have asked this question. Therefore, the Bureau considers that this project should not be voted on, but if the CFP appeals...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u184	Mr President, it is not a matter of appeal, Mr President confirms precisely what I just said. Last week, they were the authors themselves of the initiatives that said they were harmed and that they abstained from their vote. In this case, we want our initiative to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u185	Mr President, it seems to me that it makes no sense to continue this incident, but in any way...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u187	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u188	Mr President, this situation is different from what happened last week, in which it was a full rejection vote of an article which inevitably caused damage, insofar as initiatives have just been adopted. Still, we support and agree with the position of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u189	You think, then, that the initiative should be voted on, even after a global final vote? Oh, my God! I mean, this issue has already been closed with the overall final vote on an initiative and we are now going to make another vote in general on an identical initiative. It's a bit absurd, you have to agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u190	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u191	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u192	Mr President, if I may, if I may put on the vote script at the same time, in general, in the overall specialty and final, without the Commission's work allowing it to do so - in fact, it makes it impossible for a judgment that does not go through a vote of the initiatives and then a possible conciliation of differences in the final wording, under the penalty of effectively making only the general vote and leaving that of the speciality and the global final vote for another moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u193	Well, the Bureau considers that Bill No. 775 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the CFP should not be voted in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote, because its vote is impaired by the approval, in the overall final vote, of another initiative. However, if the CFP wishes to make use of the Bureau decision for plenary, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u194	Mr President, we had tried to simplify this by proposing until the votes of the two bills were joint. It is truly inexplicable that this has not been the solution, that there has not been a joint vote. In fact, Mr President, I would like to add another argument: if we are to recover the history of bills voting on territorial boundaries of Freguess, what we will find are joint votes on equal projects. So what we proposed was exactly what has been done in the history of voting...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u195	Mr. João Oliveira, I apologize for interrupting, but I want to say that the Bureau asked the PSD to give consensus so that the vote would be joint, and the PSD did not give consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u196	So, Mr President, I note that this problem is created because the PSD has broken the historic practice of the House in this matter. [[PSD protests.]] If that is the case, of course, I must resort to your decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u197	Mr President, if I understand correctly, the CFP requires the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u198	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u199	That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the appeal presented by the CFP. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a majority for the bill to be voted on, and so we will proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this incident is going on in an absolutely excessive and absurd way. Please, Mr. Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u202	Mr President, my appeal is to understand what is going to happen here in the House. We have just voted on a bill and passed it, as Mr President said in a comprehensive final vote; now we are probably going to pass another bill on the same subject. The question I put to the Bureau is: are we going to have published in the Journal of the Republic two decrees on this subject?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u203	Don't! It's done in final writing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u204	No, no, no. I can assure you not. Only one law will be published, since the bill becomes law. The gentlemen. Members could help in the Bureau's work instead of trying to make a general legal theory on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u206	The gentlemen. Members could assist in the work of the Bureau rather than try to make a general legal theory on this matter. You have the floor, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u207	Mr President, I would like to help, but some theory is also necessary to follow the practice. Mr President, what is different in this vote and which obliges us to take a decision is the fact that, rather than what is usual in the situations in which voting is done in general, in the speciality and overall end, in plenary, thus giving the procedures, there are two diplomas and not only one and there is consensus for all votes to be held simultaneously. This is because the solution, in a scenario like this, in which there is no consensus to make a single vote, would have to be the one to make only one vote in general, to go down to the committee to work as a specialist and to consensualize, or not, a single version for it to be voted in a comprehensive final vote. Alternatively, and because we understand the point put by the Communist Party, we suggest that both can be voted on and thus resolve the matter, not in the specialty but in the final drafting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u208	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I regret to interrupt, but the Bureau's position was in a certain sense after hearing the various participants. This is not what was considered in the vote on the appeal made by the CFP on the Bureau's decision, and therefore the vote will be taken on the result of the vote on the CFP's appeal. We will therefore vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, draft law No 775 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial administrative limits of the parish of Palmela and the Union of Freguesias de Poceirão and Marateca, in the municipality of Palmela ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 61 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 50 ( a ). the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal, on 6 October 2016. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 64/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 56. the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal, on 6 October 2016. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 709 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the Greens CFP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, from my point of view, the vote on draft law No 710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u209	They are, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u210	If you are not harmed, we shall proceed to the vote on Bill No 710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by assigning Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the Greens CFP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 397 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate the effects of emerging risks on contamination of waste water ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u211	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u212	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u213	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1321 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the effective application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July, to all Science and Technology Management ( BE ) pockets. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and PS Ivan Gonçalves, Diogo León and Hugo Carvalho and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u216	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u217	Mr President, it is to announce an individual vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u220	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u221	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Diogo León and Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1358 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Contraction and integration of Science and Technology Management Fellowships ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u223	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u224	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u225	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on these two draft resolutions that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1268 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate approval of specific compensatory measures directed at brown ( PSD ) producers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1313 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote increased coverage of special insurance for chestnuts ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1329 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value and support the chestnut line ( BE ) for which the PSD and the CFP request the empowerment of the vote on points 1, 5 and 7, first of points 11 and 13, then and last of the rest. We shall therefore vote on points 1, 5 and 7. [[The vote was taken with the votes of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 11 and 13. [[The vote was taken with the votes of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on points 2 to 4, 6, 8 to 10, 12 and 14 of draft resolution No 1329 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1338/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support and enhance the production of chestnuts ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u227	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u228	You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u229	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but there was a lapse. With regard to draft resolution No 1313/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the vote of the CFP is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u230	It was then recorded that the PCP voted against draft resolution No 1313 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), which does not alter the final outcome of the vote. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1349 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of specific compensatory measures directed at chestnut producers ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the banking minimum services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the speciality in the Commission shall be followed. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of Bill No 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the banking minimum services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on European Affairs on drafts of lein. 711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the European Affairs Monitoring Act ( CDS-PP ) and 717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u231	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u232	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u233	Mr President, it is to indicate that a group of Members of the Socialist Party which integrates the two. a and 3. the Committees and the Committee on Follow-up to the Definition Process of the 'Portugal 2030 Strategy' will present a statement of vote on the initiatives we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-09.u234	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we will proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 540 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection rules against exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high voltage lines, amending Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of the votes and our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, March 14, with a debate, by marking the CFP, on labour legislation, in which the projects of lein.o 712 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed together in general. ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hour bank mechanisms by the fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Labour Act on Public Functions ( PCP ), 713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the employer's business framework, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life and repealing the adaptability and banking mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation, by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 714 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the employer's schedule of duties, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life and repealing the individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hour bank, making the third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), 792 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotes collective bargaining by 14. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE) and 793 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker by 14. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), may take place at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by next week. I wish the best votes for the CDS-PP Congress to be held this weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 10 minutes.]]
