ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. To begin our work, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to account for a set of ads. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to the projects of lein.os 800 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( Os Verdes ), 801 / XIII of 3. ( a ) — Creates the status of the informal caregiver and reinforces the support measures for dependent persons ( makes the third amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2006 of 6 June 2006 and the tenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE), 802 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the adaptability regimes and the time frame of the General Law on Public Works ( Eighth amendment to the General Law on Public Works ) ( BE ), 803 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates group time bank and group adaptability ( BE) and 804 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen support for informal caregivers and dependents ( PCPs ). Parliamentary opinions Nos 57 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March approving the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic teaching of music and dance and the regime of the anticipated internal competition ( PSD ), 58 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March approving a specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance, as well as the extraordinary competition of teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education, anticipated internal competition and extraordinary external competition ( PCP ), and 59 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February establishing the basic restrictions or reference levels relating to human exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from lines, installations and other high and very high voltage equipment, regulating Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( BE ). The draft resolutions Nos 1395 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a survey of the number of workers covered by the working time flexibility instruments ( CDS-PP ), 1396 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ), 1397 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all efforts and endeavours to ensure that the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is properly complied with to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects ( CDS-PP ), 1398 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study in time the best way for the management and compatibility of the various uses of water in the event of a shortage, particularly in the region of Alqueva ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1399 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open a new period of applications for action 6.2.2 of PDR 2020, so that farmers affected by the October fires that did not apply can do so ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1400 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider dementias and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority; that it develop a national plan for intervention for dementias; that it adopt the measures necessary for adequate support for these patients and their families; and that it create and implement the status of the informal caregiver ( CDS-PP ), 1401 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent inventory of situations and infrastructures of capital interest at risk and definition of a risk minimisation programme for the use of the Algarve coast range ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study and subsequent opening of a negotiation for a special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education ( CDS-PP ), 1403 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government require the Spanish Government to conduct a cross-border environmental impact study on uranium mines in Retortillo-Saintidad ( PSD ), 1404 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide detailed information to pensioners and pensioners on the values of their pensions and pensions ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1405 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, under the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects, adopt the necessary measures with the Spanish State with a view to suspending any final decision on the implementation of the project of the processed uranium factory and mining in Retortillo-Saintidad ( Salamanca ) ( PCP ), 1406 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures with the Spanish authorities to prevent the installation of the Uranium Retortillo-Saintity Mine ( BE), 1407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of long-term contribution careers and consideration of retirement schemes relating to specific situations, including teaching ( CFP ), 1408 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to support informal caregivers ( NAP), 1409 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate efforts to stop the exploitation of uranium in Retortillo with the Kingdom of Spain and international bodies ( PAN), 1410 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government affect money for the public promotion of sterilization of animals ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1411 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by defending the national interest and control of Portugal Telecom ( Os Verdes ), 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure compliance with the Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain in the context of the exploitation of uranium in Salamanca ( PS ), 1413/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate commencement of the procedure for delimiting the Special Protection Area of the Historic Centre of Porto and Gaia and the extension of the area classified to the Historic Centre of Gaia ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1414 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movements by the President of the Republic to France, Egypt and Spain ( President of the HR ) and 1415 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the strategic enhancement of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. I don't know if we can start the agenda right now or give the honourable Member a few minutes of rest, considering how much reading he has to do! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the agenda and because it has been requested, I announce that, at the end of the debate, there will be votes, such as the proposer's right. We then move on to the agenda with a debate on labour legislation required by the CFP, in which they are in joint discussion, in addition to the CFP initiatives, a set of other initiatives from various parliamentary groups. These are the following: projects of lein.os 712 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hour bank mechanisms by the fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Labour Act on Public Functions ( PCP ), 713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the employer's business framework, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life and repealing the adaptability and banking mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation, by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 714 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the employer's schedule of duties, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life and repealing the individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hour bank, making the third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which was discussed in general, 715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), 732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes of the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by making the third amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), 792 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotes collective bargaining by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE) and 793 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), draft resolution No 1395 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a survey of the number of workers covered by the working hours flexibility instruments ( CDS-PP ) and also the projects of lein 800 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( Os Verdes ), 802 / XIII of 3. ( a ) — Eliminates the adaptability regimes and the time frame of the General Law on Public Works ( eighth amendment to the General Law on Public Works) ( BE) and 803 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the group time bank and group adaptability ( BE ). To begin the debate, in the representation of the CFP, Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP took the initiative to devote today's plenary session of the Assembly to discussion and decision on workers' rights with the scheduling of four bills. We discuss the rights enshrined in collective bargaining and the right of collective bargaining itself to end the expiry of collective contracts and restore the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker. We discuss working hours to repeal the rules of the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, which establish adaptability, group-hour banks or individual ones that have led to the deregulation of schedules. These serious standards were introduced by the PSD/CDS Government in 2003, worsened by the absolute majority PS Government in 2009, aggravated by the PSD/CDS Government in 2012 and maintained so far by the current minority PS Government, with the support of the PSD and the CDS. It is unacceptable that the standard of the expiry of collective agreements has been introduced and that working conditions have been allowed to be worse than those laid down in the law and that the principle of treatment which is most favourable to the worker has been called into question. Expiration means that in each negotiation, employers' associations have been given the possibility of, by refusing to negotiate, expiring collective labour contracts to question their rights. Thus, they were given the possibility of blackmailing workers and their trade unions, placing them before the false alternative between expiry or agreement for the reduction of rights. They said these rules would boost collective bargaining, but reality is the opposite: fewer contracts, fewer workers covered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u6	15 years have passed since these standards were introduced and collective bargaining has never again reached existing levels before the serious standards of the Labour Code have been imposed. However, the declaration of the expiry of dozens of collective conventions was published, but the harmful consequences were not left there because, in negotiated and published contracts, rights were conditioned and amputated. The problem was not back in time: every year the blackmail of employers' associations is repeated. Today, there are several sectors trying to impose aspects such as: the elimination of municipal holidays; the cutting of 10 minutes breaks, essential to the health of workers; the reduction to a quarter of the payment of extraordinary work on holidays and holidays; the cutting, by half, of the value of night work payment; the general setting of the deregulation of hours; or the cut in the support allowance for children who have long existed in the textile sector. These are just a few examples of those that are the proposals, in many devastating cases, of employers' associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u8	And do not come with the poisoned present of compulsory arbitration. The rights of workers shall not be subject to the discretion of the decision of arbitrary colleges. It is necessary, yes, to end expiry, to ensure that a contract is replaced by another freely negotiated contract. That's the solution! That's what the CFP proposes. [[PCP applause.]] It is also unacceptable that rules for the deregulation of working hours have been introduced. The illegal extension of hours, the abuse of continuous work, night and shift work, the concentrated hours, the placing in question of weekly rest, adaptability, individual and group hours banks are spreading. All this means: more time, less pay; one worker does not know what time it goes out and often does not know, even before what time it will go in or out of work! There are workers subject to hours of 12 and 16 hours a day, weeks of 60 hours that happen to each other. The physical and psychological health of workers is called into question. For many workers it is impossible to accompany their children, decide to have children or have more children! It is impossible to articulate professional life with personal and family life! All of this has consequences for workers, for their lives, for their health, for their families and has consequences for society, for the present and future of the country. It is essential to ensure dignified times and to repeal the rules that promote the deregulation of timetables. That's what the PCP proposes! [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the rights of workers, the value of work and workers — an essential aspect for the development and future of the country. If there is a lesson to be learned from recent years that the defence, replacement and conquest of rights, indispensable for improving the living conditions of workers and the people, at the same time, was a decisive factor for economic growth and job creation. If there is a lesson that can be learned is that the policy of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, cuts in wages, pensions and other social rights was not only a policy of social injustice but also a policy of recession, unemployment and the country's deepening. The defeated, in their strategy of cuts and regression of rights, are now clinging to the maintenance of the serious standards of labour law so that they can serve the same objective. We must reject this path. the rights of workers, in order to distribute wealth created more fairly, but also to create more employment, in order to stimulate economic development, it is necessary to repeal the serious standards of labour law. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to discuss and decide to take a stand. What's the PS gonna do? Are you going to do what you did with your vacation days and with the replacement of the amount of additional work payment? Are you going to join the PSD and CDS again? The solution is to end expiry, restore the most favourable treatment to the worker, repeal the rules of deregulation and arbitrary work hours. We know that the proposals that are under discussion today do not solve everything because the consequences of blackmail and regression of rights must be corrected for 15 years, but they are proposals that correspond to necessary measures. The Assembly of the Republic is discussing and is going to vote, because this is where this must be done. And it will be done after the public discussion of the PCP bills and opinions sent by representative workers' organizations. to the workers, trade union delegates and members of workers' committees, to the representatives of trade unions, federations and unions, to the General Confederation of Portuguese-Interunion Workers National, here present, send the greeting of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party in this fight always for workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]] With one certainty: whatever the outcome today, the workers always have in their hands the defence and progress of their rights, as is happening with the ongoing struggle, either in the sectors where the negotiation of the contract is discussed, or in the companies of the sectors in which the expiry of collective contracts has been published. As they can in companies and sectors defend, restore and conquer rights, they will eventually be able to repeal the serious standards of labour law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u9	Mr Francisco Lopes, three Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u10	Mr. President, I am replying together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you, on a matter of conduct of the work, that it was decided at the Conference of Leaders that the requests for clarification have a duration of 2 minutes, and that the answers have a duration of 2 or 3 minutes, depending on whether they are given individually or in groups, and can also go up to twice the time. I would like to thank the Members and the Members. Members to fulfil that determination of the Conference of Leaders. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mr Francisco Lopes on his choice of the subject. It is natural that, in such matters as this, we, in the Assembly of the Republic, reflect on what is also the position of the Portuguese vis-à-vis these matters, and they are all less peaceful. I believe, moreover, that the CFP has a problem with the opportunity of this issue and that it has to do with the reading of data that comes to us and what has been the evolution of data in this area in the world of work. Even today, we were once again aware of the favourable behaviour of the labour market, of the unemployment to be reduced and of the creation of jobs to be raised. We also have data on collective bargaining, which have been positive, have been growing. For example, with regard to workers covered by collective contracts, we are still far from the 2011 numbers, but, despite everything, more than tripled the 2012 numbers and, in fact, there is also a positive trend here. With regard to business agreements, we see that the number of workers covered today is greater than that in 2009. The CDS differs from the reading of the PCP on these matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u13	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u14	... and understands that in the global world in which we live, some flexibility certainly contributes to dynamism in the labour market. That is why we are undertaking a courageous, difficult-to-implementation reform and you have said that it would be the end, the disaster, the increase in unemployment. Well, the opposite is true. [[Rice from the PCP and the Greens.]] Having said this, Mr President, let us see the position of the CFP. We have heard the Secretary-General of the CFP say, this week, that of two: either the government and the PS approved these measures and were with the workers or they did not approve and were against the workers. Let us see: if the PS approves these measures, the problem is solved; if we vote against, it is confirmed that the government and the PS are against the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u15	That's amnesia!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u16	Well, if the CFP is with the government, then the CFP is against the workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the Portuguese do not understand and it is time for the CFP to say, if the PS and the Government persist in standing against the workers, when we see a CFP, a consequent CFP and a CFP to draw the proper conclusions from what they say. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u17	To ask for clarification, you have the floor by the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Francisco Lopes, today we are discussing a number of labour issues that are essentially based on promoting collective bargaining and valuing work and workers. This is a key area for the construction of a society of opportunities, but, to speak with rigour of this important issue, we cannot lose sight of the starting point of this Legislative Session. Between 2011 and 2015, on average, 44 companies died in Portugal per day and emigrated more than 350 000 Portuguese, many of which were quite qualified young people and with a contribution to their country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u20	...a country that failed them and denied them that same opportunity. That is why we understand that there was an alternative path to Portugal, a path that would necessarily have to break with the prejudice that the right has always looked at the regulation of the labour market. We knew it was essential to stimulate employment and create better conditions without precariousness at work. We knew that it was essential to increase the national minimum wage to give dignity to the labour relationship, to give justice to the factor « work ». We knew that it was essential to fight the myth on the right that, in order to develop, to be more competitive, we had necessarily to impoverish ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we are inverting the direction of the previous government and the data, from this point of view, are irrefutable: employment has grown, unemployment has decreased and new employment contracts are expressly created through non-term contracts. We are fighting unprecedented work precariously in the Public Administration, giving more dignity, better conditions, but above all, to respect the thousands of Portuguese people with whom the State maintained a precarious work relationship. Time showed that our path was right, that our course was right. But we are not yet satisfied, because this only increases our responsibility — the responsibility to continue to fight for decent work, that is, to continue to respect workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore value this debate which we are doing here today with the Portuguese Communist Party. It is true that we do not always converge in concrete solutions, but we always converge, yes, in order to promote and strengthen fair, lasting and protective labour relations for workers. We stress our approach in reviewing some of the tools of organization of working time that have come to disbalance legislation, such as the existence of an individual time bank by simply agreeing between the employer and the worker. I would therefore like to ask Mr Francisco Lopes about the effects he would have on the protection of workers' rights by revoking the amendment implemented in 2012 by the PSD Government and the CDS-PP on the subject of the individual hourly bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u21	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Sandra Pereira, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP appears here today in this debate as another preparatory test for its April and May celebrations. at this time of year, the CFP normally initiates a process of metamorphosis in which as a partner of the government passes — see there! — the CGTP spokesperson. We know! First are the posters on the street, then are the debates here, in Parliament, then comes on April 25 and Workers' Day, with demonstrations throughout the country,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u23	So you don't think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u24	... and then you return to the government and vote on it by the government, contradicting everything you said on the street, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Secretary-General of the Communist Party this week confessed to the deep concern in which the CFP lives. You can, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We understand the concern of the PCP. It is the concern of those who are now power, it is now opposition, according to political convenience. [[PCP protests.]] It is the concern of those who are here voting Budgets next to the government, now it is out there with posters demanding the reversal of labour law. [[PSD applause.]] It is the concern of who is the victim of this government's gambling, the government that you support. It is not the PSD or the CDS that support it, it is you who support this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u25	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u26	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, whenever the CGTP wants to speak louder, the PCP becomes its microphone, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u27	That's just jealousy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u28	in fact, that is not the case, because you are unable to apply what you are talking about on the street at the negotiating table, and that must indeed be disturbing. The CFP, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, he crystallized and stopped in time. He continues to say the same language 50 years ago, refusing to realize that the safety mechanisms at work are others, that the challenges of the world of work are new and that they are different, and we have a duty to answer them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u29	Madam Member, I am amazed at the news of your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u30	The technological revolution, the new forms of work, the intelligent robots, everything, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen — I know you don't want to see! — but everything is developing in the world of work. What does the PCP have to tell us about this? Nothing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u32	And let them be disappointed, because this too is not a difference between those who are in favour of the workers and those who are against them. It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u33	He's in favor of the bosses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u34	What is in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a difference between those who live tied up to the past, who deny reality and refuse to change and between those who recognize that work relations have undergone significant changes and that new instruments and answers are needed to guarantee rights, but to guarantee more employment and better employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u36	That is why I ask: when will the CFP understand that there are no workers without jobs, that there are no jobs without entrepreneurs and that are the jobs that make the economy? When will the PCP cease to be a beer party, mature and free himself from the protest? When does the CFP update and support the way of commitment and social consultation as a motor of joint advances and generators of balances in society? Or you prefer to live in a state of restlessness, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u37	To reply, Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, thanks to the questions raised and which show the importance of the topic which the CFP brought today to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia began by asking the question that it was not appropriate or that it might not be the most appropriate time. Nothing more wrong. If there is something that the evolution of recent years has proved that the strategy of the PSD and the CDS, of impoverishment and exacerbation of exploitation, in addition to tremendous problems for workers, for the Portuguese people, was a factor that led to unemployment, emigration, economic recession and the deepening of the country. The reverse, defence, replacement and conquest of rights is the key element that explains that there is economic growth, development and job creation, with all that this implies. It's good to take note of this! It is already known that they will not take the lesson because, for the parties that had this responsibility, it is important to find all the arguments to pursue always this policy of cutting, reducing wages, reducing rights. On the other hand, regarding the issues of collective bargaining, it has been 15 years since 2003 when the PSD/CDS government then presented the Labour Code as the salvation of the country's future. We see what happened from 2003 to today after these changes in the regression of rights. with regard to collective contracts, the existing level of contracts up to 2003 has never been restored. There have been fluctuations, but for more than 3 million workers, for example, the facts that are pointing out in 2017 — the negotiated contract — have reached little more than 800 000 workers. This, with oscillations and, nevertheless, with a set of collective conventions of organizations created by employers' associations themselves, which sign provisions for the reduction of rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u40	Even with that in mind, only 800 000 workers were involved. There is a serious problem about hiring and there is an even more serious problem about blackmail that exists, of expiry, about workers and their organizations. And I address the following question not only to the PSD and CDS but also to the Socialist Party itself: there is a situation in which, in each negotiation of a contract, employers' associations go to the unions each year and say 'or accept to reduce rights, cut everything there, or go to expiry'? Oh, my God! Is this a form of negotiation? Oh, my God! Is this a principle of the Constitution? Oh, my God! How many more years can one accept a situation like this? Oh, my God! This calls upon each of the Members who are here, cannot be postponed, there can be no delaying maneuvers! You have to finish your expiry! [[PCP applause.]] It is necessary to ensure that a negotiated contract is replaced by a freely negotiated contract. On the other hand, Mr. Members, regarding the working time and the question of individual hourly banks, raised here by Mr Hugo Carvalho, is undoubtedly one of the elements that needs to be corrected and eliminated by the deregulation that he has created. And today there is a great opportunity, in this Assembly of the Republic, of the PS to vote in favour of the PCP projects which aim at this same, in addition to other matters. There are even specific projects that touch only the question of individual hourly banks. In other words, there is no reason why the PS does not vote in favour of the PCP project aimed at eliminating these individual hourly banks, although the issue is much broader than that regarding working hours and also in relation to the aspect of the hiring itself. On the questions put by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the CFP shall ensure that the interests and rights of workers are protected at all levels and in all circumstances. But it is important what they have raised, because it explains a question:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u41	Is that what you're going to say now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u42	... today, we have in Portugal, since 2015, a PS minority government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u43	Is it now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u44	We converge with the PS in everything that is positive for the workers, for the people and for the country. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u45	We diverge and oppose anything that is negative. And today's vote will be clear. After all, what's going to happen? If the PS insists on continuing its convergence with the PSD and the CDS, what we are going to see is that, in terms of expiry,... [[Is it now?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u46	... PSD and CDS will save PS and keep expiration. [[PCP applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u47	Therefore, the Socialist Party and its Government will only be able to maintain this position because they have the convergence and support of the PSD and the CDS. This has happened in fundamental matters, particularly in the field of workers' rights. The PSD and CDS, at the service of the interests of the great capital and against the interests of the workers, converge with the PS, are the salvation of this policy, which it is necessary to correct and eliminate. That is also why we are here today, asking these questions, so that the path can be clarified. And the sense we have is exactly a sense of the future. In the future, why? Technological development, scientific progress,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u48	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u49	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, technological development, scientific research, all these potentialities, yes, sir, that is the meaning for the future, of taking advantage of all these developments, which we put at the service of the workers. Here too, again, is the difference, because more technological development means that it is necessary not to increase but to reduce working hours so that there is more employment. [[PCP applause.]] More technological development means more employment with rights and no more precariousness. More technological development, artificial intelligence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u50	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u51	... productive capacity means diversifying sources of social security financing and not jeopardizing public and universal social security. This is the sense of future that we express here, of valuing work and workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u52	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the representatives of the workers who are attending this debate and, to the horror of the PSD, to greet the workers who fight, organize themselves, who exercise their rights, who make strikes and demonstrations, who fight exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u55	This is not the first debate we are discussing on labour issues, the amendment to the Labour Code, the timetables and forms of organization of work. And it is not the first debate we have on collective bargaining, and it certainly will not be the last. Today there is a clear contradiction in the situation we are living in. The country has a political majority that contrasts with the years of the troika and the right, has a government distinct from the previous, has an economic policy with a different orientation, but essentially has the same labour law as the PSD and the CDS. That law is a barrier to democracy. The deep imbalance in labour law is what keeps precariousness and low wages and that prevents a democratic distribution of the benefits of growth. The projects that today the Left Block presents concern two of the most conservative aspects of labour law we have. The first is that of the rules that convert collective bargaining into an employer blackmail exercise to pull workers' rights down; the second is what allows, through the bank of hours, the unilateral imposition of irregular hours and working hours out of hours without compensation. The objective of the bills that we present is simple: to rebalance work relations as a condition of justice and democracy in the labor relations we have. Let's start with the first aspect, the collective bargaining. It has already been said that in 2011 there were 1 million and 200,000 workers covered by collective labour conventions; in 2014 they became less than 250 000. How was this possible? It was possible, because the law, contrary to what happened in the past, allows collective conventions to expire by unilateral decision and to succeed the void and because the PSD and the CDS still worsened the conditions in which this may happen, giving the bosses the possibility of such expiry to be easier and faster. However, this blackmail dynamics in the negotiations contributed to the deterioration of the content of the new conventions, limited the number of workers protected by collective bargaining. That is why we say that expiry is a knife pointed at the workers who overturn any negotiation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u56	The same can be said of the elimination of the full functioning of the most favourable treatment principle, which is, in fact, on the basis of labour law itself. It is a founding principle that already comes from the old Law of the Labour Contract, it is a basic principle for the balance of positions in a structurally unequal relationship. The possibility of a convention to remove rights enshrined in the law is the possibility of the strongest party in this process, the employer, employers impose the degradation of working conditions below the minimum of the minimums that the law determines. The Socialist Party insists here, and it is not a lie, that there has been an increase in the number of conventions published in 2017 — about 208 collective conventions with a potential coverage of more than 820 000 workers. But the volume of workers covered is far from about 2 million we had in 2010. And besides the number, there is another problem, which is a greater risk of degradation of the contents of conventions that are negotiated in deep imbalance conditions. The Government itself acknowledged the abuse by employers of the figure of expiry when it proposed a moratorium last year on the use of this instrument. However, this abuse is not only the result of wrong practice, it is an abuse that is authorized by law and therefore it is necessary to change the law. Without ending the possibility of unilateral expiry and without restoring the principle of most favourable treatment, we will not truly have a revival of collective bargaining and a reconstruction of the collective system of labour relations in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The second theme of this debate is the deregulation of working time, which has significant implications not only for employment but also for personal life, family life, the ability to reconcile the various concerns and responsibilities of people, especially women. In Portugal, there are around 76 % workers on behalf of others who are already covered by a flexible way of organising working time. in the troika period, the right, besides reducing the cost of work, with the elimination of holidays and compensatory rest, with the cut in extra work, with the elimination of holidays, with the reduction of compensations, moreover, still accentuated the deregulation of working times. The regime of the hourly bank, which already existed and which is a way of embarrassing the work and the irregular, in 2012 was able to be instituted by individual agreement—and the agreement here, of course, is a force of expression—between employer and worker, and the 'written silence' of the worker, even when accompanied by verbal opposition, is understood as an acceptance of the proposal. Moreover, it is possible to extend the figure of individual adaptability or of the individual hour bank to workers who expressly refused it, because of the group adaptability and the group hours bank. This is called a contractual dictatorship! The individual hourly bank, still undercut from any collective bargaining, is the expression of a employers' despotism which should not be accepted in our legal order. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u57	The need to revoke the individual hourly bank is identified in the Government's own programme. Furthermore, the Government Programme adds that the repeal of this standard aims to rebalance labour legislation by combating the spraying and individualization of different working hours in the same companies. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day when these amendments can be made and when these commitments can be fulfilled. in Parliament there is a majority who has already been able to change some aspects of the labour law without needing the approval of the bosses, in fact deciding against the blackmail of the bosses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u59	We have done so with regard to forced labour, we have done so with regard to harassment at work, we have done so to strengthen the law which seeks to recognise contracts in false green receipts, we have done so to prevent abuse in the transmission of establishment. On collective bargaining and working hours we must also do so and the Socialist Party cannot say that, in relation to these matters, it shares the concerns of the left but that, in the law, it prefers to maintain the right solutions. There is a majority in this Parliament who can and must answer for who works. on the left block, we don't give up doing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u60	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification to Mr José Soeiro, so we proceed to the following intervention. To present the draft resolution of the authorship of the CDS-PP, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a draft resolution based on a set of concerns. The Government has come to declare its intention to revoke the individual hourly bank scheme because it has doubts about this, and has said that this is a means which has not been used since only 0, 9 % of workers, i.e. about 23 000 workers, would be covered by that same hourly bank. And that is the number that counts from the 2016 Green Paper on Labour Relations. What we have on the ground is that, only in the distribution sector, the number of workers is much higher than that in the Green Paper on Labour Relations, i.e., there is information that has served as a basis for the negotiation itself on this subject, which will not be correct. And it will not be correct because the completion of the form referred to in the single report leads to the question being answered by fields which are excluded, which cannot be changed. And there will be much more workers who, because they are in situations that would be cumulative with others, fail to see their activity recorded within the time frame. For this reason, what the CDS proposes in this draft resolution is very simple: that the Government should be recommended to revise the form designated by the « single report », which indicates that the question to which entrepreneurs should answer is « which, or what are, the flexibility tools for working hours applicable to workers on behalf of others? » and that the completion of the same field is cumulative and non-exclusive. We have, I think, the advantage of, with this request for information and with this clarification, we have all, all parliamentary groups, the ability to have access to more accurate information, so that better decisions can be made. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u62	The Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification to Mr António Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, therefore, to present the Greens initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to greet, on behalf of The Greens, all the workers who today came to the street, despite the rain, with all the sense of justice, demanding the end of the lapse of collective bargaining and the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. The workers are right. And they are right, of course, because — as we all remember well, perhaps more than others — our labour legislation has been the subject of profound changes over the past few years. And, as all of us will certainly recognise — perhaps with more difficulty than others — all these amendments had as a common denominator the emphasis on imbalance in labour relations, with great losses to those who work. In fact, the pretext of competitiveness, growth and employment and, more recently, on the pretext of the crisis or external taxation, all served to weaken and deprotect the position of the worker in the labour relationship. We have, therefore, seen for several years, but with a particular focus in the period of the last government, an offensive against those who work, which is marked by the sharp degradation of living conditions of much of the Portuguese families. And, despite further attempts to escape the obvious, the fact is that the emphasis on the exploitation of those who work was the most predictable result of options materialized through successive amendments to the Labour Code which eventually resulted in the devaluation of work and even an unprecedented attack on the fundamental rights of those who work. In this regard, it is important to remember, for example, the amendments concerning the concept of just cause for dismissal or the amendments aimed at weakening, and even blocking, collective bargaining, or the new rules for dismissal, which have resulted in a genuine invitation to employers to lay off, making compensation in case of dismissal cheaper and the most facilitated process. To all of this it is still necessary to add the adaptability and bank-of-hour mechanisms, the summation of holidays, the subtraction of holidays, the cuts of days of rest compulsory and out there. But in this long and deep walk against those who work, it gains particular focus on the disappearance of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. In the balance sheet, we can say that such options, even as was predictable, only stimulated lay-offs, making work cheaper, putting people to work more and gain less and, above all, weakening the worker's position in the labour relationship. Today, over these years, what we can conclude is that all these changes or options, in addition to the dramatic situations that have provoked, from a social point of view and for those who work, have not only solved none of our problems as they have even worsened them. in fact, the incomes of families increased substantially, the rights of those who worked drastically, the disprotection of workers hit the bottom, the economy continued without giving signs of life and unemployment did not stop growing. Now these are the options, which over time have been assumed by several governments, which is now important to definitely revert. And, among the many employment options that are now needed to be revisited, there is of course the need to restore in our legal order the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. in fact, it was with the Labour Code of 2003 that the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker was seriously challenged by the government, then making a huge retreat in terms of civilization, within the framework of labour relations, but also a huge retreat in relation to the role of the government, which, on behalf of the State, should take on the defence of the interests of the most fragile part in the labour relationship. However, considering that the subsequent amendments to the 2003 Labour Code, in particular the 2009 amendments, brought nothing again with regard to the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker, the Greens consider that it is time to remove this injustice and re-establish this important principle in labour law as a way to restore some balance in labour relations. This is the purpose of the legislative initiative which the Greens bring to discussion today, i.e. to amend the Labour Code in order to carry out the consecration or, better, to replace the principle of treatment that is most favourable to the worker. This is therefore the right time for their benches to say whether they are on the side of the rights of those who work, on the side of the balance of labour relations, or whether they prefer that workers continue to work without rights, as the right one so much likes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u64	The Bureau does not record any entries for requests for clarification to Mr José Luís Ferreira, and all legislative initiatives have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we are called upon to discuss a matter of the greatest importance and which arouses the greatest interest in Portuguese — labour law. In fact, it is a subject with reflections on the lives of all. Labour legislation is relevant to those who think and plan their investments and it fits the obligations and rights of those who create jobs and workers who do their work and know. This is therefore a cross-sectional legislation to the country's activity, determining for investors, national and foreign, to believe that Portugal is worth it. For the Social Democratic Party, Portugal is worth it! That is why, with democratic humility, but with a sense of state and service to Portuguese, the PSD has taken up the work of redeeming the country in recent times. True to the principles of social consultation, we have always discussed the necessary changes to labour legislation with the social partners who would have to apply them in the field. And, faithful to the international commitments made with the troika — by the socialists, remember — we also fulfilled. We did it hard, and even the socialists criticized us for doing what they had previously negotiated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u67	Changes were made to labour legislation, but with great respect for social consultation, where the social partners, at such a difficult time for our country, had the ability to achieve balanced commitments for workers and employers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u69	... thus ensuring the necessary climate of peace and social cohesion. Today, thanks to reforms and an exceptional international environment, the economy continues to recover and with it employment. Unfortunately, the current government is not able to take advantage of the favourable environment to prepare for the future. Moreover, in addition to removing the development of companies with a lack of qualified professionals, before it lets the threat of a work review that is poorly perceived, but by the fact that the government sacrifice everything to keep in power and to be hostage to parties with a passerby vision, which can only protest, claim and ignore the virtue of social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u70	The PSD can only negotiate with the bosses, but nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u71	It is quite illustrative that in this way the CFP does not want to discuss and consensualize solutions, rather than the street, rather than revolutions. Social peace may be at risk when some parties decide to change the regulatory framework of work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u72	And putting the bosses in danger, your problem is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u73	... without respect for the social consultation and the tripartism represented in this body, and when the government does not assume, as it should, the role of social referee. Here we remember that the PSD always, but always, has valued social dialogue as a space for discussion and building commitments necessary for the preservation of social peace, for the development and promotion of justice and equity. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Everything we can, and we must, seriously discuss weighting and justice, but a good result for the country does not go through a unilateral decision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u74	That's how you did it; the bosses decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u75	...of some parties, of the government, or by demonstrations on the street. It involves mobilizing the social partners and conquering them with a good solution for all and then for the country. The voraciousness of the days teaches us that we must be quick, but with weight and correctness. We must give priority to the stability of the rules governing work, although we have to adjust them, in order to better respond to the challenges of today and of the future. The future is the digital and global economy. History deserves respect and with it we must learn, but it is not with ideas and rules of the first Industrial Revolution that we will face the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u76	That's what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u77	The future is fulfilled with properly qualified workers and employers who are able to respond to the cash challenges that scientific and technological evolution poses to the economy. We need to adapt the curricula of schools and profiles, as well as the training content of training institutions, both public and private, to new realities and to take advantage of Community funds. We must make the principles of digitization and robotics accessible and prepare our human resources to meet these challenges. We have the best workers and the best young people, but we have to prepare for the new reality, because that is the only way they can feel economically and socially integrated. The word of order is to capitalize. It is good news that the funds to be used for vocational training are effectively used to capitalise on new skills. We must give priority to these skills so necessary to meet the new challenges of digitisation and robotics. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not possible to agree with profound revisions of labour legislation, as they defend the PCP and the Left Block and as opposed, moreover, what is said and what is heard, the position of the PS. Has the Government already realized that labour stability and reforms are, in general, a good foundation for economic growth and employment? Oh, my God! Or will you shut up and put your own options in the drawer to yield to the pressures of your power friends? Oh, my God! After all, what does the PS and the government want?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u79	Do they agree, or do they not agree, with the profound changes to labour legislation that their supporters are demanding? Do you want to end the expiry of the collective conventions and freeze social dialogue? Do you want to end the mobility and adaptability of working hours? Do you want to ignore the importance of tripartite dialogue in the context of social dialogue? Are they willing to sacrifice stability, growth and employment to ease and populism? The PSD is available to contribute to the discussion of changes to labour legislation, wishing and accepting that, within social consultation, the necessary consensus and commitments between the parties involved are constructed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this sense, I quote: " Capital and work do not necessarily have to be enemies between themselves. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u80	That's nice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u81	« Their interpreters must first seek to combine positions that allow healthy coexistence, where differences are catalyzed in the search for compromise solutions, through social dialogue. This must be the way of the future, because here lies the principle of tripartism, an argument essential to the existence of ILO and the spirit of negotiation and conciliation of positions negotiated with moderation that serve the country, rather than serving mere ideological bias, personal or circumstantial interests. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u82	They can serve the ideological interests of the bosses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u83	"To social dialogue what is social dialogue! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I have just quoted a statement from the General Workers'Union ( UGT ) of 21 February 2018. The PSD defends a non-exhaustive discussion,... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u84	... without atrollos, with reflection, study and transmitting to economic agents that we value dialogue, concertation, evolutionary stability and preparation of a better, fairer, prosperous and capable of redistributing wealth with equity. For that, count on us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u85	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record only the entry, to request clarification, of Mrs Paula Santos, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u86	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I give concrete examples of the reality of two companies in the district for which Mrs Deputy was also elected. Delphi, in the county of Sixal, is hiring workers for 12 hours a day, well above the maximum working time limits, which is 8 hours a day. They work for three days, rest for three days, and so they run. For weeks these workers work 48 hours: they enter at 8 hours and leave at 20 hours; they enter at 20 hours and leave at 8 hours. Say, Mrs. Member, where is modernity here, when it is not possible to articulate personal and family life with professional life? Tell these workers where modernity is when, often, the time they are working their children are sleeping and when they get home their children are leaving for school. What is the follow-up these workers make to their children? What is the follow-up they make when they get home and, because their children are already sleeping, they don’t have any opportunity to ask them: “How was your day at school? What did you do today? What motivated you or what brought you more joy? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Is this the modernity and evolution of the times that Mrs Deputies has for the workers of this company? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] The other example is Lisnave, who created another company, Lisnaveyards, to avoid applying collective bargaining, to impose an adaptability regime, which obliges workers to work 15 days on Saturdays and holidays without even receiving more for that reason. It is only possible to pay for extraordinary work at the end of x hours of the adaptability scheme and, when they are arriving at that number of hours, the company no longer calls them to work. Is this the record that the honourable Member has of modernity, of success? Is there more exploitation, is it having workers working days on the line, without any respect for their rights? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u87	In reply, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u88	Mr President, I thank Mrs. Member of the Communist Party, Paula Sá... [[Santos!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u89	I'm sorry. I thank Mrs Paula Santos for the kindness she had in putting this question and personalizing, even in two companies in the district where I was elected, and I am very pleased about it. But the honourable Member, in my view, because the hourly bank has limits, by referring here to these two situations, saying that they are hiring forever, is demonstrating a situation of illegality. [[It's reality!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u90	However, if you are demonstrating a situation of illegality, this illegality must be monitored by the Act (Working Conditions Authority ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u91	So the PSD agrees with these situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u92	Is it not the CFP that supports the government, that does not send the ACT to monitor? Oh, my God! Isn't it? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] So, Mrs. Member, turn to your left side, it is close, and ask the Socialist Party to answer it; it is better, because you have more opportunity to give it the answer. With regard to the hourly bank and what we understand and defend, not wanting to escape the issue you have raised, I mean that everything should be focused on dialogue, dialogue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u93	The result of the dialogue is in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u94	... between employers and workers, unlike the PCP, for which employers do not go beyond bad people, who exploit, who are excreble and who destroy. No, Mrs. Deputy, that dichotomy, does not exist for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u95	Answer the questions there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u96	We're trying to find what's good on one side and what's good on the other. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u97	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I apologize to the PS — I repeat, the PS, I went on time, I have the floor to Mrs Wanda Guimarães. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking Mr President for the correction he has made concerning the party to which I belong,... [[Laughing.]] ...because I think it's very important. First of all, I would like to leave here a very special emphasis on the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing the collective negotiation of the debate, which will allow us, once again, to say that the matter is already clarified, because the Socialist Party's position is very clear and has been - throughout the various legislative sessions - to clarify some aspects. Secondly, we would like to state that we are not afraid of any of the heights. They can put us on the wall at ease, as the CFP intends, because we have made very positive leaps in favour of the workers of this country and the development of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, these leaps have been given with the support of the left, you have to say it, and we have always fallen standing and so it will continue to happen. What is not going to happen, of course, can count on it, is going to the trailer of the other parties' agenda. We have our own agenda, which is the PS agenda, and that is what we will meet at the pace we understand necessary. On the issues under discussion, I would like to introduce two or three notes in order to contextualize the subject. First, we do not devalue Parliament's legislative function, but we do not devalue other instruments at our disposal — I am talking about social dialogue. More: we think it's not smart to do it, it's a waste not to take advantage of the virtualities of social consultation. By now, responding to the Social Democratic Party, which so excitedly speaks of social consultation, I would like to remind you that during the four years in which it was government did not pass cavaco to social consultation,... [[PSD protests.]] ... imposed 35 hours, took the holidays, cut pensions and wages and, at that time, did not ask anyone, nor did he dignify the social concert. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We, the Socialist Party, do indeed have political morals to talk about social dialogue. [[PSD protests.]] We want to discuss certain matters, such as that of the organization of working time, which is fundamental, but we must, in our view, do so - and I say it clearly - with the social partners, because this is their role, otherwise it would not be necessary, as it is obvious, and then evaluate the results we have achieved. The third note that I want to leave has to do with our view on the Labour Code, which is that we consider it extremely harmful or harmful, for workers' rights and for the harmony of working relations itself, to make the Labour Code a sort of flap. We understand that the subjects that today are so challenging in relation to working relationships, and that more and more of them need, of course, to be dealt with globally. There are, in fact, three subjects on which we are to be determined, the first being that of adaptability and the individual hourly bank, whether applied to public service or applied to the private sector. We are talking about the bank of individual hours in relation to two, i.e. an agreement without interference from collective bargaining, an agreement between employer and worker. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] It is part of the Government Programme, the PS, in fact, that revocation and on 23, i.e. almost 10 days from now or so, we will have in social consultation the discussion of this matter. So it seems to us that it is completely extemporaneous that we are now doing legislation in a hurry on this issue and without listening to the partners, as we wish, as we assume and as we wish. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another matter on which it is worth stopping has to do with the principle of the most favourable treatment, which has also been very focused. This is a principle that before 2003 was true applied to all situations enshrined in the Labour Code. Therefore, it was only possible to negotiate above what the Labour Code referred to. In 2003 the principle of the most favourable treatment was withdrawn and cancelled and in 2009 by the hands of the Socialist Party, 13 subjects were returned which we consider fundamental, i.e., subjects that are untouchable. And I will give you just a few examples: parenthood, normal daily and weekly working periods, minimum working time, night work, guarantee pay, the right of workers' representatives. And this for a very simple reason, without demagogy: if tomorrow I'm going to negotiate with someone and know that with that person it's only possible to negotiate upstairs, perhaps I'm not interested in negotiating anything, as is obvious. This is what's happening. [[PCP protests.]] It is in fact from our point of view that it is completely wrong to think that the most favourable treatment blocks collective bargaining. No, it does not block, it allows other kinds of advances in collective bargaining and allows the convention to be globally more favourable than is, in our view and I say it clearly, the way that we understand is desirable and correct. Last question: expiry of collective agreements. First, to make it clear, we absolutely refuse to use the expiry of collective conventions... [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down a bit! As I said, we do not allow expiry to be a kind of weapon to throw the bosses. We are completely against what happens. But I'm going to try to prove by the more b that this is not the reason, I repeat, that's not the reason, and I'm going to base myself on numbers, I'm not going to do any prestigious exercise. And the numbers contradict what the PCP and the Left Block say in the explanatory statement, that is, what leads to the blocking of collective bargaining and, let's say, the deprotection of workers or a more significant number of workers is the issue of expiry. Well, then, nothing I'm going to say if it had happened. It is in 2008 that there are, in terms of scope, the largest number of workers, 1 900 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u99	In 2003?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u100	No, in 2008. It was 1 900 000. See the statistics. Five years after we had the 2003 Code. Even with the 2003 Code, in 2010 we came down, but still we had 1,500 000 workers. From 2009 onwards — and, always with the same Code — the lowest ever value was that of a few 243 000 workers. In 2014, with the amendments introduced by the PSD Government / CDS, by Law No 55 / 2014 of 25 August, we have already had an increase in this number and in 2016 / 2017 we have registered 1 650 000 workers, note 1,400 000 workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, very quickly, I will only tell you what an expert on working relations says: 'The facts and statistics are responsible for demonstrating that both the stability of the conventional regimes and the dynamics of collective bargaining do not depend on the regime of expiry of the conventions. As for us, what really causes the blocking of collective bargaining is not a question of the expiry of the conventions but, rather, the possibility of a party to impermissibility of the negotiation process, using this possibility for the benefit of its interest and for the benefit of the counterparty's interest.' That is what we must do, dear Members and Members of Parliament. This is the fight we must wage. Finally, I should like to tell you that this competition is at least that feeling, which seems to be being given to labour law, is, in our view, highly unfavorable. Some of these initiatives have not even been publicly appreciated and we understand that it is not desirable to do so. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Therefore, we are against the opportunity, we are against the form and, in some cases, we are completely against the content of the projects presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u101	The Bureau recorded the registration of five Mrs. Members to ask for clarification and you are informed that the honourable Member will ultimately respond to all of them. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u102	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the CFP has requested today to schedule this debate in order, in essence, to demand clarification from the Socialist Party regarding the reversal of labour legislation or, as the Secretary-General of the CFP said, to tell those who want to join the traps. That is, the PCP is tired of the de facto union in which he has lived and wants to marry. And the question that the PCP asks is this: who do you want to marry? [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] in the background, it is the old history of Carochinha. And the question is this: "Who wants to marry Carochinha, who is rich and beautiful? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Is the PS going to marry Carochinha? Will the PS accept that the Labour Code continues to be changed in benefits? this time are the times, the hour bank, the end of the expiry of collective conventions... Will the PS accept to change the Labour Code without discussing it in social consultation? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] For the CDS, social consultation is a fundamental forum for discussing and negotiating these issues. And we remember Mrs Wanda Guimarães, who apparently seems to be forgotten, that both in 2009 and 2013 the amendments to the Labour Code were preceded by agreements signed by the UGT. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] We know that the CGTP refused to sign on all of them, but it never signed a single agreement until today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u103	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u104	Yes! Mrs Wanda Guimarães, in this debate it is important for the PS to clarify its position on social dialogue. in fact, the government failed to comply with the agreement for the minimum wage in 2017, was unable to reach an agreement in social consultation for the minimum wage in 2018 and agreed to amend the Labour Code in part without going to social consultation on the matter of transmission of establishment, as we called to attention here. You have already changed the Labour Code without going to social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u105	You're forgetting holidays!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u106	So what we have in the background here is very simple to understand. Does labour law prove to contribute to job creation and to more and more stable jobs? The PCP demands that the law change. What's the PS gonna do? Are you going to take it? Is there more collective hiring? Have we come to recover the number of workers covered? PCP doesn't like it. He wants to change the law. What's the PS gonna do? Are you going to take it? What are we staying on? Will the PS be on the side of who is against social consultation or on the side of who negotiates and achieves commitments in social consultation? The PS is next to the PCP and the CGTP, which have never negotiated, and against whom does it accept commitments in social bargaining?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u107	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u108	in this case, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães knows what I mean. So the question is this: will the PS accept to marry Carochinha? Mrs. Deputy, it is good to remember that John Ratão, who was nice and brave, was very delicious! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] And since it was very delicious, it fell in the boiler! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP.]] [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u109	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u110	Mr President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we know what the parties on the left want. We heard the intervention of the Communist Party, we read their projects and what they say today is the same as they said decades ago. They continue with the same discourse of resumption of legislation that is obsolete. But the world has changed. The paradigm of the labour market is no longer the same. Today we should be preparing for the future of the working world, the new reality of work, the new challenges ahead. But that's not what's happening here, that's not what the left is proposing to us. The Communist Party insists on reversing reforms, insists on staying in the past. It is therefore important to know how the Socialist Party reacts. After all, the Socialist Party wants to do what with labour legislation? It is that, in view of your intervention, Mrs Deputy, we have failed to understand what your way is. Do you intend to take the same path as the Communist Party? We, PSD, have no doubt: the next path is continuity, progress and not reversal. The way ahead is dialogue with employers, workers, social partners, so that, in a commitment logic, the necessary changes are made. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party need to know what the Socialist Party wants. On the one hand, Mr Vieira da Silva has already said that he rejects profound changes to labour law, but on the other hand he has also endorsed amendments to the legislation, proposed by your coalition partners, without listening to social consultation, in total disrespect for it. And now they will give in to the pressures on the left and on the CGTP, which insist on the repeal of labour laws, which prefer the struggle on the street to dialogue and commitment in social dialogue? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u111	Will the Socialist Party risk the creation of a clichéd environment, with less social consensus and thus less conducive to the development of economic activity? Will it risk the stability of labour legislation, so important to the attraction of investment? Will the PS be interested in reducing the pace of job creation? Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the biggest problems are the uncertainty and lack of clarity that employers and workers face, and therefore they want to know what will in fact change in labour law. Madam Member, we must decide and decide whether or not we want a more democratic, dialogueal, freer, more tolerant and social-peace society. The PSD always knew what his way was; it is important now to understand what yours is. What, after all, is the path the PS wants to follow. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u112	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u113	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, regarding her speech I will put two very specific questions, but first I would like to give a previous note on the position of the right-wing parties in Parliament on employment. In fact, the only interventions they make are that they will be able to disregard the debate on labour matters. And the workers, present here and those who for almost five years have had to fight against the tide and the changes made by your government in the field of work, continue to expect absolutely nothing from the right, as far as working areas are concerned, except attacks and more attacks, such as those that have done here during the whole afternoon, in relation to workers. Secondly, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, regarding the intervention she has made, here are two questions that need to be understood. On the one hand, we cannot continue to enhance the virtues of collective bargaining when, in practice, we do not want to make the necessary changes to promote the same collective bargaining. So there is certainly a contradiction here that we have to debate and resolve once and for all. Mrs. Member, the data that you have given us do not exactly match what is the reality and what are the daily complaints of several trade unions, of several sectors, regardless of the trade unions belong to the UGT or to the CGTP. The truth is that the end of expiry and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle are absolutely essential for there to be an effective restoration of what is collective bargaining in our country. The data have already been indicated here and the honourable Member has also indicated them: at some point we have passed from nearly 2 million workers to around 800 000 now, having passed through a historical minimum of about 200 000 workers covered during the period of the troika. however, that is not enough for us. And if we make these criticisms and if we say we agree with the activation of collective bargaining, we have to come to practice to achieve more results and increase the number of workers covered. On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, we cannot continue to depend on legislative amendments, which by nature are the responsibility of Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic, for social consultation. It is that workers know what happens when we make these changes depend on social consultation. What happens is that those who have the most strength, i.e. the patronage, always crush the rights of workers. And that's what we've seen in recent years. Therefore, what is also important to clarify is how the Socialist Party can look at social dialogue without being in a new perspective of changing the dynamics and the relationship of existing forces. Of two, one : the relationship of forces is either on the side of the workers or on the side of the bosses. In conclusion, there is no competition here regarding the presentation of changes in labour matters, nor are there any stories of Carochinha, as the CDS wants here to believe. What there is is the workers' needs and the need to respond to what is the increase in collective bargaining. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u114	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u115	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, was the struggle of textile workers who enshrined the right to collective bargaining, which includes, inter alia, the right to monthly allowance for child surveillance, the enjoyment of municipal holidays and Carnival. Since 2014 the PCP has accompanied the violation of these rights and, in particular, the right to the enjoyment of municipal holidays and Carnival, demanding the intervention of successive governments. The previous government did nothing, on the contrary, aggravated the violation of these workers' rights and paid off the attacks carried out by the patronage. The current government is right to workers, saying that the collective contract in question has not yet ceased to apply, so it remains in force. This year, the workers of the company Riopele, in the Municipality of Vila Nova de Famalicão, were prevented from enjoying the Carnival holiday by the administration of the company, which made the table of labour standards and unilaterally transformed the holiday on a working day. And what did the Socialist Party minority government do in the face of this violation? Nothing! Mrs Deputies, the fight against these workers is only proof that it is urgent that collective bargaining expires, that the principle of more favourable treatment and the strengthening of workers' rights should be reintroduced in its entirety. That is what will be voted on today. Madam Member, the PS or accompanying the CFP and is on the side of the workers, or is on the side of the employers' side guaranteeing the violation of the rights enshrined. It is this clarification that the honourable Member has to make here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u116	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u117	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I begin by greeting the parts of her speech that were not demagogic — and they were some and were important. It is important that the PS is a responsible party and a party that does not engage in adventurery. However, this scheduling, today, is an agenda that we would say in the style of The Strange Case of Dr. Jekkyl and Mr. Hyde. This is, on the one hand, we have the PCP as Dr. Jekkyl, cute, as a solid being of management and a supporter of the State budgets. But today he seeks to entangle the Government and the Socialist Party once again in labour matters, and he becomes the perfidious Mr. Hyde. Indeed, PCP and BE take a miraculous potion and turn from one party to another. But not everything is bipolar on the radical left. in this regard, as regards the aversion to social dialogue, the aversion to social partners, the aversion to conciliation and the collective interest, which prevails in that hatred, there is a constancy in their action. Therefore, the class struggle prevails over the collective interest, about the common interest, about the national interest. The reality, however, demonstrates the opposite: labour law results from a historic agreement of social consultation, signed in January 2012... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... and that one year later, in the first quarter of 2013, it produced its first results in the continuous reduction of the unemployment rate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u118	This is a beautiful example of what social concert is for! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u119	This is an objective and unmistakable reality, and that is what PCP and BE want to question. They want to call into question economic development, they want to call into question the sustained reduction of unemployment, they want to call into question the resumption of employment levels. So, the question that Mrs Wanda Guimarães would ask is simple and this is this: does the PS not understand that giving up a radical left-wing agenda in this area, in labour matters, is a risk that, in addition to diminishing the role of the social partners, will affect the economy and the volume of employment? Is the PS willing to take that risk or, on the contrary, prefers to continue to be a responsible party in this regard? Let us see how this will be reflected in the direction of vote. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u120	To answer this set of questions, you have the floor of Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u121	Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. My answer will be basic and linear. To the series of questions that have asked me, I answer this: we are on the side of the Socialist Party programme, supported by this Parliament. And with this, I think I have essentially responded to everything you have asked. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now I have to say that no one enters the PS, for the simple reason that the PS — and I repeat it — has an agenda, has a programme, has a rhythm. This is what we will do here, for the benefit of workers' rights and for the development of the country. And we will do nothing more, nor what some people want nor what others insist on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u122	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u123	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The proposals we bring here today are central to the lives of workers. They say a lot about the country we have, but they say even more about the country we want to build. And with regard to the public discussion, Mrs.Wanda Guimarães, Mrs.Deputy may not have had the opportunity to read but all the PCP projects had public discussion, some of them with dozens of opinions. It is unfortunate that the PS has not read what the opinions of workers' representative organisations say about the importance of revoking the expiry of collective bargaining. [[PCP applause.]] It is that, on the revocation of the expiry of the collective contract, the opinions we receive from the representative organisations of the workers are clear as water in the following: defending the collective contract requires at the end of the expiry. in reality, it is not possible to continue to say that it defends collective bargaining and continues to maintain its expiry. And it is not possible to say that if it is against expiry when this government has already been responsible for expiry in the Petrogal business agreement, published in January 2016. It was already by this government that this happened. It is therefore crucial that one assumes that, in order to defend collective bargaining and the rights enshrined there, the need to revoke expiry is unequivocal. In fact, even in the argument used here by several parties, from PS to CDS, that recent data from collective bargaining show that collective bargaining is very dynamic, Mr. Members have not said here, but they know that when it comes to collective bargaining, it is not just numbers that matter, because they know that what is on the table is to say whether the workers sign the new collective contract or, then, they will be removed rights regarding the payment of extraordinary work, hourly banks, among other matters. Therefore, this is not a freely signed collective contract, this is a collective contract of the employer that does not defend the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u125	It is also important to say here, as regards the principle of the most favourable treatment, that it is to establish justice for its replacement. We're here to discuss, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is in the law today concerning the Labour Code must be the minimum, it cannot be the maximum. And what are you guys doing? Members are saying that what is in the Labour Code is the maximum. Thus, the bosses who want to apply the law of the jungle. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the 21st century! [[PCP applause.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is well the understanding of modernity for the PSD and for the CDS. In fact, their understanding of modernity is that the IPSS workers rest 52 days a year and work much more than 300 days, work on shifts. Modernity is the workers of the large surfaces receive a call to know what time will be next morning, without having time for the children. Modernity is only for the Members because for the children of others and their families there is no modernity, there is only retrogression. [[PCP applause.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude the discussion on social dialogue, I would like to say the following: Members know very well that the discussion on social dialogue is a vicious discussion, it is a plan for workers. The gentlemen. Members know that in social consultation workers are always at a disadvantage. But was it not in this Chamber that the introduction of hourly banks and expiry was discussed? Aren't the honourable Members sitting here voting for expiry? So why should it not be here that the withdrawal of expiry is voted on? Oh, my God! Why should it not be here in this Chamber that workers' rights are defended? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am just saying this: the CFP is very proud to know which side it is on. We are not afraid of the grave, because we always fell on the same side, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães. We always stood on the side of the workers. That is why we have no problems to say: we are very proud in this country, in the struggle of workers, in the CGTP-IN and in the defence of workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u126	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate and, above all, after hearing Mrs Rita Rato, with that clichéd air,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u128	Determined!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u129	... well we can say that today is the day the PCP says: « Either go or break! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I repeat, "or go or break! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great And I get it very well. The PCP feels betrayed, disappointed, deceived by the Socialist Party, its partner in this coalition. Of course, the PCP is here in a true labyrinth of deceptions, because I thought that, when the government arrived and this government solution arrived, the PS would finally open the doors to the glorious revolution of the PCP. After all, by paraphrasing Marcel Proust, the PCP is "In Search of the Lost Revolution". You have lost the revolution and now you want to see if you find it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] So the first question I ask is this: after all, the PCP already knows which side it was the PS tomb, or does it not yet know side by side the PS fell? It is important to know that this matter is clear. It's because the PCP is threatening the PS today. Today, the PCP does more: blackmail the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u131	Today, the CFP announces and makes strikes, which will intensify, and poses threats of new strikes that will come. There is even an announcement of revolution, paraphrasing Mr. João Oliveira, who said: « This is no longer going to small steps. For not, John, this only goes there with revolution on the street, "to the cinnamon", as it has been said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u132	The strikers are the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u133	But the question is: what if, at the end of this, the PS doesn't give in? Yes, and if the PS, in fact, as we have heard here in a strange speech by Mrs Wanda Guimarães — and'strange' is the most euphemistic adjective that comes out of me — give the tomb to the wrong place, i.e. not fall into the place you want, how do you do? They come to the street shouting 'the fight continues. Government for the Street’? Oh, my God! That's what's gonna happen, gentlemen. Members of the Communist Party? [[PCP protests.]] What does the PCP want, after all? from my point of view, beyond what has been said, it wants to see the revolution resume and try to "intarate" the Socialist Party. He wants more, he wants to deny the evidence! The Communist Party does not want to know about the evolution of the world, does not want to know whether there is digital economy or not, whether there is robotization, whether there is new relations in the labour market, whether there is globalization or not, etc. [[PCP protests.]] The Communist Party wants to see if it has an opportunity to bring back the old principles, its founding principles, the principles of labour law of 1921 or, until 1818, the year of birth of Karl Marx! [[Protests from Mr. MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u134	That's your excuse, you got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u135	Whatever the PCP wants, we don't know! What we know is that the CFP does not want anything with the future and is in a tactical exercise to try to "intagate" the Socialist Party. The PCP truly « puts its head under the sand », such as the ostrich, does not look to the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u137	As far as the timetables are concerned, your proposal is to return to the century. XIX!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u138	And you should look, Mr Francisco Lopes, until you are evicted from these principles of dialectical materialism and should fully realize that you should look to the future, but not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u139	Look back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u140	Even at the beginning of dialectical materialism, you are deeply reactionary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u141	All right! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u142	The labour laws currently existing in the country are good, Mr. Members, but they are no « sacred cow», they are no untouchable space. It is necessary to adjust them, to improve them, to give them contemporaryness with what is the reality of the world, of course, but they are good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u143	Go tell Lisnave and see what they tell her!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u144	Who says it is the job that is growing, who says it is the unemployment that is decreasing, who says it is the economy that is growing and increasing. And this is a sign that these labor laws are good. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The PS, moreover, knows very well about this and therefore collects the fruits of hard, committed and dedicated work that made the PSD and CDS in the latest legislation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u145	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u146	He's been stealing wages and pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u147	On this subject, the PSD has very clear ideas. [[That's true there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u148	The PSD has a methodology and has a vision for the future. On the methodology, it is very obvious: for us, the methodology is a logic of commitment, a logic of social dialogue in which workers and entrepreneurs, in social consultation, find the right measure, find the bisserice to tear the future and are able to meet the challenges that are on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u149	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u150	On the other hand, speaking about our vision of the future, I want to tell you that we will not look to the future and we will not take refuge in the past. We see that the world is in great change. As the poet said «the world leaps and advances»,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] ...the world doesn't even go back, the world has challenges that the PSD wants to meet and that it wants to take. We already realize that we are far from the backward and past thinking of the Communist Party and also far from the titubations, the hesitations, not knowing which side the Socialist Party falls to. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u151	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Mercês Borges, using the example she gave, we had 100 years ago daily squares and people worked from sun to sun without rights and hours. We might ask ourselves: were bosses, 100 years ago, worse bosses than bosses today? Were they worse people than the bosses today? Don't! They were old bosses. [[Mr. Deputies, PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] Today we call 'precautionary' what was formerly the daily squares — daily contracts, without knowing what the future would be, we call 'adaptable' and 'hour bank' what is working from sun to sun, because that is what happens when you enter work at eight o'clock in the morning and leave at eight o'clock in the evening. But today's bosses are better than the bosses of 100 years? Don't! The bosses are bosses and the bosses' interest is to be able to explore the work of those who work for them. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u153	The bosses are bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u154	That is why they impose on irregular working hours that serve, not the interests of their families, not the interests of their rights, but only profit and production. If this is absolutely wild in the private, as wild as were the daily square and the sun-to-sun work, it is completely anachronistic to apply this principle to public service. It makes no sense to apply the principle of the hourly bank and the adaptability of the working time to the public service. It was applied to public service for two reasons: because of prejudice towards public servants and to hide that there was a decrease of more than 70,000 workers in a few years in the Public Administration and that it was necessary to exploit those remaining in order to ensure that the systems did not enter at least the most obvious rupture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u155	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. What has changed, from the daily squares and from sun to sun work to the labour laws we have today, is not that the bosses were bad and became good, what has changed is that the workers have fought for labor laws that protect them and that recognize the principle of the most favourable treatment, because there is an unequal relationship between workers and employers. What you wanted to change — and have changed — was these laws that protect workers. He only thinks that these proposals, which constitute a challenge for the future, are from the past who wants a worse future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u157	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u158	Anyone who wants a better future, with more rights for workers, knows that these proposals are essential to defend their rights. What is regrettable is that these proposals are being handled in the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of the past, by the PS and the right sides. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u159	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate this afternoon is being important for several reasons, showing that the plurality of views among the allies of this parliamentary majority does not separate us from the common work about the essentials, but also allowing us to demonstrate that the right remains away from any valid contribution to our collective future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u162	Between a party with 5 % in polls that aims to replace the majority party on the right — a legitimate ambition, certainly — and a majority party that took the past from the front but certainly did not remove the past from the mind, as we have seen, we have the same lack of proposals, the same language of old propaganda and the same inability to understand the reasons for the success of our social model. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You didn't learn anything and you didn't forget anything. They have learned nothing from your mistakes and have forgotten nothing of the justifications with which they have tried to doctrine the country for your project of transformation of the economy and work, leading to the greatest cycle of impoverishment, emigration, unemployment, breakdown of income and devalue the work of all the legislatures of democratic Portugal. [[Protests by PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Today, saying that they want to look forward, they cannot get rid of the ties of the past or perceive the failures of what they have done, projecting them in this present. By firmly believing in the redeeming force of austerity, assuming it as a fundamental pillar of your policies, you have sought to destroy our social contract and have done so - against everything: against the Constitution, against the unions, against the workers, against the social consultation — contrary to what they have said - against even the disastrous evidence of the results of your policy. Like all the radicals, they were there finding justifications for your results. Either it was a problem of reality, or it was a problem of Portuguese, or it was a problem of context. The problem was all, it was all, the problem was never just the one that was the biggest problem: your policies, your formula and your vision of the world, which we reject at all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Contrary to what we have been told here and what you have told us this afternoon, you have never done any reform of labour law. You have never respected social dialogue. They wanted, yes, to attack the nerve of social consultation and devalue wages as a fundamental strategy of your policy, and that is what we have already reverted. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u163	You also wanted to subject yourself to Europe, and we say: no! You wanted to transfer the social costs of the crisis to the workers with the increase in TSU and to that we say: never! [[Protests from Mr. PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] You wanted to destroy the social state, you wanted to accept precariousness as a rule, you cut holidays, you cut income, you want to portray the workers as privileged or lazy, you throw at each other, you all against everyone. [[PSD protests.]] [[Have you forgotten?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u164	It was this political legitimacy, more than any normative, that opened the way to the social and labor disaster that we live in this country during your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even worse: today, they applaud every new request from the national institutions for greater deprotection of labour, for more attacks on collective bargaining, for greater workers' fragility. [[PSD protests.]] The Portuguese are therefore aware of what they have on your side—it is not exactly new—but we would like to take advantage of the debate this afternoon to reiterate, with all clarity, that we do not accept this vision and that we reject, at all, any stir in labour legislation that leads to the imposition of the law of the strongest and the least rights for those who work. They don't count on the Socialist Party for that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members, in relation to the parties of the parliamentary majority,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u165	... this is a debate which confirms that a convergence agreement is not a merger agreement, and yet it is not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u166	The plurality of views we share in this and other areas — I repeat, in this and other areas — does not contradict the fundamental unity of this majority around the Government Programme, around the joint positions and, each year, the priorities set out in the State budget. That is what has allowed us, over these years, a path of success that the right does not forgive, because we have done the opposite of what the PSD and the CDS defend and defend, resulting in better results for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] by getting the best results for the Portuguese we get even better results for the country, because we do not share that pilgrimage vision, that strange vision of those who understand that the country may be well but the Portuguese is that they are worse. with us, the country is fine because the Portuguese are even better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u167	Thanks to our reforms! Thanks to the reforms we have made!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u168	Therefore, all the indicators — employment recovery, income recovery, the recovery of the largest emigration wave we have had over the last few years — result from a new economic model, resulting from the political options for which the new majority in this House of the Republic was and will continue to be decisive. The changes that we have implemented since the beginning of this legislature have given stability to the country, normalized social and labor relations in the country while promoting various measures to value income and change labour laws. Contrary to what the right wants to believe, and it has already believed here, in the debate this afternoon, these changes have been fundamental to Portugal's success. A success which is criticised by the PSD and the CDS in this Parliament but which still this morning was applauded by the Members of the PPE ( European People's Party ) during the intervention of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, in the European Parliament, who happily recognize what you are trying to deny in there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u169	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u170	Among the changes that we have made in this field and that we are very proud of, is the historical increase in the national minimum wage; - includes the replacement of holidays; - includes the programme to combat precariousness; - includes the strengthening of the mechanisms and frameworks of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) ; - includes the joint responsibility of the leaders of temporary work enterprises; - includes the new law to transmit establishments; - includes the law to combat harassment; - includes the end of the cuts in unemployment benefit; - includes the new scheme for self-employed; - includes promotion and conciliation measures between professional, family and personal life; - includes the end of the remuneration reductions in the Public Administration; - includes the replacement of pension supplements to the employees of the enterprises of the business sector. These, and many others, are measures that have always been counted on — I repeat, always! — with your opposition which has thus demonstrated what the continuation of the social and economic shock in this country would be if they continued to exercise power. for the part of the PS, we reaffirm the maintenance of this direction: the maintenance of this direction with our parliamentary allies and, as part of this success, preserving dialogue, with all institutional actors with whom we relate, including social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u172	Not by chance, and as has already been recalled, the consultation has scheduled a meeting for the next day 23 to advance with several of the subjects discussed today, including that of adaptability and that of the individual hourly bank, as well as other matters which have been left out of this debate, but which are central to the Socialist Party and, of course, to other parties, as is the case with the penalisation of companies which resort to excessive over-term contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already shown throughout the legislature, it is not because of the possible lack of agreement with the social partners that we will no longer comply with everything, but even everything that is in the Government Programme and in the joint positions on labour. But it will also not be by the Socialist Party that will soon exhaust all the possibilities of reaching an agreement as wide as possible, which reinforces, with this majority and in this legislature, the balance and institutional density of the changes that we want to link to Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u173	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has happened here today, and it has been frequent, that the Socialist Party, when the debate is not going well with it, needs to go back to the past at the time of the previous government, thus trying to sing a song that galvanizes the majority who support it. [[Protests by PS Deputies Idália Salvador Serrão and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] But the truth is that time is passing, it is passing, it is passing, and every time this music galvanizes the leftmost benches, as you can see, because of the expectations and attitude they have in this debate. The CDS brought to this debate a draft resolution that is moderate and that seeks to put the question where I believe there are conditions for all of us to agree: in the clearance of reality, in the collection of data, so that the political decision maker, when he decides, knows exactly what reality he is referring to, knows exactly what he is talking about. It is clear today that the data we have on the implementation of individual hourly banks are out of date, does not correspond to reality. Therefore, what we expect of those with political responsibilities is that they do not fear this lifting of reality and that, regardless of their positions, they will abide by the fact that this survey is done, and that it is done with the greatest transparency and the greatest truth possible, and then take the decisions to understand on this matter. We therefore look forward to bringing a proposal that is intended solely for the knowledge of reality, that it does not have obstacles and that it can be accepted. On the debate that the CFP called on us today, there is no doubt that the CFP wanted to put things in a simple way — and sometimes in politics, things need to be put in a simple way. What the Secretary-General of the CFP said last weekend in preparing this debate was linear, i.e. that there are two sides in these matters: there is one side of the workers and there is one side which, in his view, is against the workers. I didn't say there were three sides, I didn't say there was one foot on the one side and one foot on the other. Don't! To be serious, what the Secretary-General said was that there were two sides.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u175	And the CDS is on which side?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u176	What the Portuguese do not understand, after hearing this debate, in which it was clear that the PS "has given a lid" to the extreme left—and the PCP and the Left Block cannot continue to say that they do not realize that they have "take a lid"...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u177	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, what the Portuguese do not understand is whether the CFP even knows which side it is on or whether it will continue to be on the side of the government, which, in its view, is against the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u179	Does the CDS join the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u180	The CDS doesn't change position!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u181	Mrs. Members, as you know, this debate is caused by a marking of the CFP, therefore the CFP has the right to close the debate. I would therefore like to ask in advance whether any parliamentary group that still has time wishes to use the word—in this case, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] Since there are no more entries, Mr António Filipe has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the political discourse of the PSD and the CDS on this matter, there is no time nor patience. [[PCP applause.]] For us, the question of workers' rights is a central issue of national life and it is with all seriousness that we want to deal with it. We know that, in this legislature, there were significant advances in the replacement of rights that the Portuguese had been scoured in the years of the governance of the PSD and the CDS. Therefore, it is not understandable that since there have been significant advances in other areas and since the last few years have been of real aggression to workers' rights in central labour law matters, such as collective bargaining and working hours, everything can continue in the same, as if the troika were still here, as if the PSD and the CDS were still in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u184	That, for us, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply not acceptable. How can it be explained to workers that all the harm that has been done to them in recent years is effectively in central matters to maintain? How is it explained to the workers that the country's economic situation is better, that there are significant advances, that increase the profits of companies, but that workers' rights may remain in the same or may even worsen by employer taxation? That is simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u186	How is it explained that we glorify modernity, technological advancement, and workers feel that such progress is not for them? How is it explained that workers feel that their lives remain the same, that their rights continue to be violated, while the country progresses economically and as technology progresses? Workers must be beneficiaries of progress, they cannot be victims of technological progress or victims of progress. That's a misunderstanding. [[PCP applause.]] How it is explained that Portuguese workers hear the talk of birth, say that birth should be encouraged, and that, at the same time, they are forced to do 12 hours of work, have irregular hours of work, do not know what hours they have to work tomorrow, without having any opportunity to take care of their children or even know when hours they can go to school or daycare. It is not acceptable, it is not possible to have a coherent speech of reconciliation between professional and family life...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u187	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u188	... and, at the same time, continue to allow this authentic deregulation of the professional life of people, of their working hours, which makes their lives in hell of unpredictability and which makes any possibility of reconciliation between professional and family life impossible. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall conclude by saying that in this matter there are no places « on the wall ». in this matter, or if a significant step is taken, by adopting measures that alter the deregulation of working hours and that make collective bargaining worthy, or otherwise, not being adopted significant measures in this area, what is being done is to say that the aggression that the PSD and the CDS have made to workers' rights is to continue. in this debate, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is which side you are on, and the Portuguese workers, according to the votes that will take place, will know who is on your side, they will know which side each of the parties represented in this House. The CFP knows which side it is and the workers will know who is actually on its side. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, we have entered the voting period. While the services prepare the quorum verification system, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on an opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to the waiver of the mandate of Mr António Eusébio ( PS ), the electoral circle of Faro, being replaced by João Pedro da Conceição Rodrigues, in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Members, with effect from 12 March, including. The opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics is in the sense of the waiver of the mandate required by Mr.António Eusebius to be admitted, since he meets the legal requirements, and must be replaced by João Pedro da Conceição Rodrigues, with effect from 12 March 2018, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u191	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In good rigour, we should have checked the quorum first, but it is obvious that there is quorum. The honourable Member who refers to the report and the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics and who is now in office, Mr. João Rodrigues, will obviously already participate in these votes. He therefore asked the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to convene it. I think the ladies and gentlemen. Members have already had the opportunity to register, and we will therefore proceed to examine the quorum of deliberation. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 205 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Rodrigues — who has not yet had the opportunity to register — and Mr Nuno Sá, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, thanking 207 Members, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin by voting, in general, Bill No. 712 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hour bank mechanisms by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the employer's schedule of duties, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life, and repealing the adaptability and banking mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation, by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 714 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the employer's schedule of duties, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciling work with family life, and repealing the individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hour bank, making the third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renews the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We are now voting on a request by BE for a discharge from the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes of the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No. 792 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Promotes collective bargaining by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 793 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1395/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a survey of the number of workers covered by the working hours flexibility instruments ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 800 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No 802 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the adaptability schemes and the time frame of the General Law on Public Works ( eighth amendment to the General Law on Public Works) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 803 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the group time bank and group adaptability ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, whose vote was held before the quorum was checked, on a question of formality — and I am a lawyer, the formalities are what they are — and for there is no doubt that, for all purposes, we will consider that the vote is now ratified by the plenary, but there is no need for repetition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u192	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u193	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u194	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u195	I would ask you just for a moment, Mr President. Mr Ascenso Simões also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u196	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement on an individual basis on the initiatives we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u197	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u198	Mr President, I also call on you to announce that I shall, together with Mr Joaquim Raposo, present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u199	Be registered. Mrs. Isabel Moreira also asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u200	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present an individual vote statement on the matters we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u201	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u202	Mr President, I would also like the floor to inform the Bureau that, on these votes, we intend to make an oral vote, which will be given by Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u203	The Bureau has indicated that the CFP Parliamentary Group also wishes to make an oral vote. in this case, and with no further indications, we proceed to the oral explanations of vote. Since the first inscription was made by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to reiterate, in line with what we have been able to present in our speeches during this afternoon's debate, our very clear position on the work that we have done in the context of changes in employment and the extent of the dialogue we want to establish in order to promote these changes. In view of the fact that on the 23rd day, as pointed out here, we will have a meeting of the social consultation, in which several subjects which have been presented here in relation to adaptability and individual hourly bank will be discussed, with our abstention, we intend to make a distinction regarding the timetable of these proposals, which is not a disagreement about the content of these proposals, since, as a whole, they are included in the Socialist Party's Government Programme and will be implemented in this legislation, by this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u205	For an oral vote, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this vote on central matters of labour law, concerning the expiry of collective bargaining and existing rights in collective bargaining, as well as the repeal of the mechanisms for the deregulation of working hours, each has assumed its own side. This vote gave the Assembly of the Republic the opportunity to repeal the most serious standards of the Labour Code, particularly those relating to collective bargaining and working hours. Today, all those who claim to be advocates of birth and demography — as is the case with the CDS — of families or modernity of the country's life, had an opportunity to vote alongside the CFP in the repeal of the mechanisms for deregulation of working hours. Unfortunately, that was not the option. PS, PSD and CDS, the three sided, have today revoked these materials. from the PCP, we have the deep conviction that this vote will only be another step and that the struggle of workers, from businesses and workplaces, will have to restore dignity, democratic rights and development of the country. Initiatives may have been plunged here, but the struggle of workers must begin a path of development of the country and respect for the lives of people, their families and their dignity. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u207	For the last oral vote, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have the huge challenge of rebalancing working relations and relaunching collective bargaining. We also have the challenge of preventing work legislation from allowing unilateral imposition of time deregulation and deregulation of work. We have a third challenge, which is that of combating precariousness. Of each of these materials, the Left Block does not give up. The Government has commitments entered into in its Programme and has commitments made with the Left Block in the working group, which we constituted, against precariousness. We understand that on each of these matters — collective bargaining, hourly banking and combating precariousness — it is not only possible as a matter of urgency that there are legislative amendments, some of which have already been agreed. This is the work we are going to do in the coming weeks, knowing that, in addition to the work we are doing here, the mobilization of workers themselves will be decisive in what we have come to achieve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-14.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having finished today's work, I would like to take note of the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m. the first item is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on structural prevention and integrated fire management, followed in the second point by the debate with the Government on Bulgaria's Presidency's priorities in the Council of the European Union, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery of Portuguese participation in the construction process of the European Union, and the debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, preparatory to the European Council, under Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a ). that of the same Law No 21 / 2012, of 17 May. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 31 minutes.]]
