ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 762 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Bertiandos and Santa Comba, of the municipality of Ponte Lima ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission and 763 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Macedo do Mato, Serapicos and Union de Freguesias de Izeda, Calvelhe and Paradinha Nova, of Bragança ( PSD ), which also falls to 11. the Commission. The following draft resolutions were also entered in the Bureau: No 1289 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the presentation of the missing elements for assessment of a possible mining operation in the Argemela greenhouse by the local authorities and populations involved, and that it assumes and corroborates the position of the entities involved in the decision to be delivered ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1290 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen information given to consumers in invoices relating to the marketing of fuels ( PSD ) ; No 1292 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent development and implementation of a new National Plan on Prevention and Combating Human Trafficking ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 1293 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not conclude a contract for the granting of mining operations in the Argemela ( BE ) greenhouse, which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1294 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by assessing environmental risks and the impact on economic activities resulting from the possible mining concession in Argemela, in the district of Castelo Branco ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and paragraphs 1295 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the Eco-School Programme ( CDS-PP ). It is also important to take into account an opinion from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. This is a report and opinion related to the suspension of the term of office of two Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group : Mr Hugo Pires and Mr Palmira Maciel, being replaced by Lucinda Carlota Monteiro Ferreira de Oliveira Fonseca and Mr Luís Loureiro de Castro, with effect on 6 February 2018, limiting itself to the period of the day indicated above, ending at the end of the day designated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda consists of political declarations. First of all, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS dedicated 29 and 30 January to carrying out its parliamentary days in Setúbal. These were positive days, in which we made field visits, dedicated to employment and health, always listening to both sides of the issue. It was also on those days that we announced our proposals on justice, responding to the challenge launched by Mr President of the Republic. Mr President then said that among the various challenges facing justice, the first and most difficult is the cultural challenge of wanting and knowing how to continue to fight for it, at a time which invites capitular or to give in. The CDS does not capitulate or give in and today is responding to the challenge, willing not to waste time and, as far as possible and as far as the majority can leave, to give shape to the agreements for the justice system. Without wanting to anticipate the discussion that we are going to do, what we want to do today is open the way to the reflection that all of us, without exception, have been called upon to do. We, CDS-PP, fulfil sobriety and responsibility in the debate, but above all demand that no one be above the law and that justice be of all and for all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u5	Who here ignores the deaf complaints of our fellow citizens that justice is expensive and slow? Who here ignores the complaints that good justice only reaches the richest? Who here ignores the despair of companies that cannot charge their claims for lack of reply from the courts? Who here ignores that the Portuguese justice system is one of the main obics to foreign investment? We're sure no one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u6	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u7	And who here ignores the other side of the problem of the agents of the justice system, with arms with the lack of technical means, human resources and specialized advisers, or of stability and legislative cooperation? We're sure no one, too. If it is true that many of the problems are identified, it is no less certain that they will not all be solved. There will be difficulties and obstacles along the way. There will be subjects in which it will not be possible to achieve sufficient understanding, but nothing to do because it is not possible for the great reform that everything will change is that it is not sensible and, much less, it helps whoever it is. It's small steps that are going to make the big changes. That is exactly the way we want to go. That is exactly what is expected of all of us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about completely revolutionising the system, what the CDS proposes is, on the one hand, to increase the speed and effectiveness of justice and to give it transparency. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u8	These are, for us, the priority vectors, since we understand that this is the first step to reintroduce the dignity and trust that the justice system needs and that the Portuguese deserve. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We therefore defend, as an example, the oral trend of the proceedings and sentences, leaving the judges the essential task of the decision, the institutionalization of technical advisers specializing in the most complex matters, the increase in citations and electronic notifications, the development of arbitration and peace judges or the review of the system of access to law. The most critical point of the challenge now in our hands—and for the CDS to have been, and will always be available—is the building of consensus. We have already heard that it is available for dialogue. It would be a good sign, it was not the fact that it meant very little to a Ministry of Justice that lives in cantonate, that decides strictly nothing and that remains in a nightmare difficult to understand. [[CDS-PP applause.]] on the part of the majority, unfortunately, in the most recent history of consensus, there is not much to count either: agree or not on the left with the initiative, a proposal that does not come from this side has almost always had the same destination — the trash can. And this is the greatest and most important reflection that the left of this Plenary has to do and to which we appeal. If not for the sake of democracy, at least for the Portuguese, who have entrusted us with our mandate and who are waiting for us a little longer. [[CDS-PP applause.]] One of the most surprising examples of this sugarcane policy is the systematic lead to initiatives relating to the protection of the elderly, which we will discuss again next Friday. We live in the world of immediacy, the ignorance of the other, where the older ones are often not only forgotten and abandoned to their fate, as, worse, they are derailed and mistreated, physically and psychologically raped, seen or as a hindrance to the family or to which the family cannot respond, and not always rescued promptly by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u10	The model of society that we want to build, in which 20% of our population is over 65 years old, does not ignore or give up the older ones, before involving them and helping them, ensuring their care and protection. A model of society in which to protect and help live in dignity and without suffering are, for us, the words of order. that, among other proposals, we propose that intentional abandonment—and I stress the word 'intentional'—of elderly people in hospitals and illegal homes or the use of the economic advantage of the elderly become a crime, also exacerbating the penalties for the crimes of ridicule and injury against the elderly. We also defend that those who commit the crime of exposure or abandonment or who violate the obligation to feed cannot be heirs, thus adding to the role of the causes of successive indignity these crimes that I have just exposed. These are our proposals, the model of society in which we want to live, and which is not far from what civil society and its institutions want. It seems that the only people who want nothing — neither this nor anything else — are this majority, and that should make them look ashamed! Let's go to consensus. Let's go to the solutions. We honor this Parliament! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u11	Madam Member, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u12	Mr President, I will respond to two sets.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u13	Of course. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Morais of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u14	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I welcome the CDS on the subject you have chosen for your political declaration, in which you underlined the Government's commitment to legislation in the area of justice, with particular emphasis, which I would like to give to the issue of protection for the elderly. I would like to remind you that by December 2015 the PSD and the CDS presented joint initiatives precisely on the disability regime and on the need to strengthen criminal protection in relation to the behaviors that the elderly are victims. The fate of these joint proposals was the lead by the Socialist Party and its coalition colleagues and, since then, something else has not happened in this House except the successive lead of the initiatives of the CDS and the PSD in these matters by the negative coalition that was formed here to reprove all that we have proposed in relation to the protection and promotion of the rights of the elderly. As an example of what has happened around a national plan or a strategy for aging, the CDS has called it a strategy, we, PSD, have called it a national plan for positive ageing, but there would be many other examples, as the honourable Member stressed. at that time, the explanation repeated over time was always the same: the government would be legislating on this matter and therefore we were not justified to approve our initiatives. But two years have passed and the truth is, in terms of legislation produced by this government in these areas, what we have is zero! With regard to the issue of the incapacity of people in general and the protection of the elderly in particular, a project is now known about a proposal of academics, handed over a year ago to the government, which did not pass from project. In the area of strategy for aging, a draft strategy has been in public consultation, which has not yet been implemented until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u15	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u16	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, my question is : from the point of view of the CDS, what is the explanation for the total irrelevance which the Government of the Socialist Party attaches to these matters? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u17	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I would like to congratulate you, of course, on bringing to our debate the issue of justice and the necessary reforms in the justice system. But, in fact, some of the statements that you have made here deserve some concern on our part. We are called upon by the honourable Member to reach consensus as far as possible. Of course, but the problem is always not about consensus in itself, but about the content of these consensus. We want consensus for what, to change what and how? Those are our questions. I confess that when the honourable Member has stated the principles, the priorities that are currently possible for the CDS to point out, I believe that she has indicated them in too vague a way, perhaps due to a lack of time. I admit that. He spoke of expensive and slow justice, but we look back and see how the CDS was so involved in the closure of courts, contributing to a necessarily more expensive justice for so many people who no longer have access to justice for that reason! We have heard her talk about the lack of technical and human resources, but we ask ourselves: "Well, when the CDS was government, how many judicial officials, how many justice officers have you admitted to the system? Do not keep on seeking. ” No doubt there's something we need to discuss here. We believe that these priorities are to take seriously and not be a kind of act of repentance, which is naturally only good for the CDS. I would now like to take your reference to the question of the elderly, which, as has already been said, has already been mentioned, and the honourable Member has mentioned it in her speech, is the reiterating of a proposal already put forward by the CDS. in fact, what causes me some perplexity, which I had already expressed earlier on behalf of the Left Block, when this matter was discussed, is that you ultimately try to criminalize a situation of abandonment of the elderly when they put the issue in terms of justice system. It is very interesting that the problem of the elderly appears here in the context of an intervention on justice. When much, this issue should appear much more naturally, I would say, in the context of a discussion on social policies. When we talk about abandonment, are we, for example, talking about retirement in pensions? Are we, for example, talking about withdrawal from the solidarity complement for the elderly? It's just, actually, that was your legacy! That's your legacy! So when we talk about the abandonment of the elderly, you don't even have the concern to establish a criterion and ask what you owe it to. Is this abandonment due to the lack of family conditions in order to welcome, in a dignified and careful manner, their elderly at home? Does the honourable Member consider — this was the question I wanted to put to him — that a family that does not have economic and social conditions to welcome their elderly in their homes in a dignified manner is committing a crime? Our answer is « no». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u19	Mr. Deputies, you have greatly exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u20	I am very grateful for the generosity of the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u21	In reply, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you for your questions. Mr José Manuel Pureza and Teresa Morais. I have already responded to Mr. José Manuel Pureza, who said he was surprised that the CDS was now concerned about the matter of justice when he closed courts and did nothing about it, returning the question to him: what did the Left Block do in this area, when it was two and a half years ago in the government? Zero, sir! Zero! As far as justice is concerned, we have zero, and we have certainly ruled in far more difficult circumstances than those in which you now rule. In the field of justice, in addition to a vague correction of the judicial map — it was not even a reopening of the courts, as they have defended, and the Minister of Justice is always the first to say - and in a very large number of IT measures, the Ministry of Justice has done nothing more rigorously. The honourable Member shrugs his shoulders, but the honourable Member is a part of this majority, he supports this government. The gentlemen. Members have the responsibility to propose, to do more and to do better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u24	Mr President, always bear the blame that you have been on the government for two and a half years and nothing to do now is an exercise that no longer convinces anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u25	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u26	Mr Deputie, we also do not ignore that the question of the elderly is absolutely cross-cutting to all areas and therefore the CDS presented in 2015 a package for the protection of the elderly and in 2016 another package, with measures that cross the areas of justice, health, social security, and that you always have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u27	It's being so unfair!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u28	The numbers, Mr. Deputies, are absolutely alarming. He knows as well as I that violence against the elderly increased by 30 % from 2013 to 2016. This should make them feel ashamed because, in fact, you have done nothing rigorously for the problem to be caused and they continue to sit there to shoulder responsibility for others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u30	I would like to say to Mrs Teresa Morais, also thanking her, that we are not, of course, at the head of this government, but we are also very surprised at her absolute inaction in the area of justice. in others too, but what we now need to talk about is justice. Mrs Teresa Morais, on what she said about the marasmo in which the Ministry of Justice lives, wanted to tell you that it is absolutely visible, and it is not just for us. A short time ago, in an interview with a weekly newspaper, Mr. Bastonário de Ordem dos Advocados mentioned this very thing, saying that the Minister does not decide at all anything and that her mandate is weak. This well reflects the concerns that Mrs Deputies brings here, which are also ours. There is nothing strictly done about the elderly, even though they have promised worlds and funds. We all continue to wait, and the elderly despair, to be mistreated every day. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u31	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u32	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, a British writer named Robert Stevenson created a world-famous character, which was Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, i.e. the doctor and the monster. The CDS, with its political position in the Assembly, very well interprets this dual character. I mean, Dr. Jekyll was a prestigious, nice, charming doctor who cared very well for people, but at one point he moved to Mr. Hyde and became a monster. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Well, the CDS is in its Dr. Jekyll phase, that is, when it is in opposition it defends the elderly, defends the taxpayers, defends the poor, but when it is in power it attacks all impiously.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u33	Exactly! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u34	Therefore, the CDS, which in the government cut reforms and pensions and left the elderly in our country in a situation of real abandonment, particularly with regard to health care, when it left the government, was born to the problem of the elderly, realized that there was a problem of the elderly, but a new problem, which in time did not exist. We never saw the CDS in the government concerned about the elderly, but as soon as it went on to the opposition, behold, all the concerns were born and the elderly began to have very serious problems which certainly did not have before when the CDS was in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u35	They were young and so they grew old! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u36	Madam President, of course, we appreciate the proposals that are presented in the House and the possibility of consensus-building based on the validity of these proposals. The proposals presented by the CDS in the field of justice and related to the elderly were aimed at criminalizing poor families, which, in fact, had bitter criticism from the higher councils—it was not from the CFP, it was from the higher councils—in relation to what they proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u38	Madam Member, if you want to create consensus with reasonable proposals, we will be here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u39	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. As we are going to discuss tomorrow a proposal from the CFP on the fees of lawyers who make informal defences, here is a possibility of consensus. Even if the government does not want to, the CDS can approve this measure with us, which is fair. We therefore hope to be able to count on the contribution of the CDS to reasonable solutions for the elderly and for other social layers in our country, which has not happened so far. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u41	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u42	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, welcome the consensus and call for consensus, because, in fact, a government that has been characterized by a complete collapse in the area of justice, a lack of dialogue, a cut in relations with the magistrates' associations is today such a CDS that changes when it is in the government or in the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as consensus is concerned, we are here for them, but consensus is not about anything, it is about concrete proposals. And, frankly, the proposals that the CDS has put forward on these matters, particularly with regard to the elderly and ageing, are not proposed for consensus. Moreover, it is sufficient to take into account what the superior councils, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, have said about the problem and the principle and will of the CDS to criminalize abandonment. The solutions that go through criminal and criminal responses and the criminalization of social problems are proposed by someone who has not understood and does not perceive society, does not realize that aging has to be treated from a social perspective, does not realize what is happening around it. That is why consensus was not possible. Since we are in areas of consensus, I ask the CDS if you want to participate in the debate on active and healthy ageing, if you want to participate in the debate on the status of the informal caregiver, if you want to be involved in the debate that is on the table with the proposals that have to do with the amendment of the Civil Code, in which we once and for all leave the dualist regime regarding the regime of elimination of disabilities and move on to a regime that values the person in its entirety. If that is the debate you want, Madam Member, we will have a chance to have, we will do so, and we invite him to the CDS. But it is a debate about constructive proposals and not about demagogic proposals, which aim nothing more than to satisfy a clientele. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u43	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Fernando Anastácio and Mr Antonio Filipe for their questions. I begin by replying to Mr.António Filipe, saying that I liked the mirror you put here in front of the Hemicycle, invoking Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u45	It was us who guaranteed the increase in pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u46	Mr Deputies and the CFP will probably be on the second, fourth and sixth, Dr Jekyll ; on the third, on the fifth and on the Saturdays Mr Hyde ; and on the Sundays they will eventually rest. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, I would like to tell you that there is a highly elucidative PCP poster of what I have just mentioned, which says: « PCP proposed, PS lead». With regard to Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, we are absolutely talking! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, this apparent and permanent contradiction is extraordinary, and the Portuguese have already realized that this will not work until the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u47	Where was the CDS when we increased the pensions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u48	With regard to the protection of the elderly, which you spoke about here, I would like to explain, so that it is clear—and I would like you to know that. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about criminalizing the abandonment of the elderly, we talk about criminalizing intentional abandonment. And I solemnly use the word 'intentional' to be understood well, and finally, what is the matter? Another thing that is different—and that is right—is the social responses that need to be given to poor people and families who do not have the opportunity to welcome their elderly. Intentionality is a completely different thing. In addition, perhaps we could also talk about the dichotomy that exists, which I do not understand, on the part of the honourable Members. Members who do not raise the same issue concerning domestic violence, female genital mutilation, and beyond. The gentlemen. Members have a prejudice and a lack of willingness to legislate in the area of older people, because they simply do not want to take account of the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u49	Lack of sensitivity!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u50	That is the impression that we have been discussing this matter for two and a half years now and for two and a half years now. Members disagree and make zero. That applies to Mr Fernando Anastácio, who said that we could not talk about justice because we made terrible cuts in the sector. Mr President, it has not been with us that there have been repeated and constant threats of strikes, it has been with you! You have to see exactly what you are doing, because apparently you don't understand anything about what's going on. I would also like to say that if you do not agree with the initiatives of the elderly, then bring something new! Bring it in, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u51	Bring one! One!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u52	For two and a half years, we have consistently and repeatedly put forward proposals, and for two and a half years, you have led them and have no solutions. Doesn't the problem bother you? That's what it highlights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u53	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u54	They probably don't do anything because they don't realize anything about what's going on around you. But it was good for them to look at the matter with eyes to see, because it is pressing and one day they will regret not having dealt with it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u55	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of this week, the CFP Parliamentary Group held its parliamentary days with the theme « public investment and development of the country ». These days were held in the District of Portalegre, which, due to its characteristics, its problems and its potential, well illustrates the issues that the PCP wanted to highlight in this parliamentary initiative. in the District of Portalegre, as in other territories of the interior of the country, it is clear that the situations of de-investment, depopulation, ageing, unemployment and precariousness are not the causes of the problems of the region, but the consequences of years of right-wing policies, integration into the European Union, of common agricultural policy, de-industrialization, de-investment. Public investment has fallen since 2010 and has reached its lowest value in 2016. In 2017, despite the recovery, it is so reduced that at nothing changes the dramatic shortage of public investment in our country. Associated with this are investment and growth models geared solely to profits without respect for resources and populations. these are examples of what is happening in the Tejo or environmental problems and the implications for the populations, associated with the intensification of agricultural activity, which promotes the concentration of property and profits, leaving environmental and social traces of difficult resolution. Internal infrastructure in the construction of strategic water reserves, in the creation or completion of road routes or in the promotion and articulation of rail transport does not exist or does not have a strategic character. The reality of the Portalegre district confirms a national need: Portugal needs another policy, an alternative policy, patriotic and left-wing, to develop. A development policy is inseparable from the valorization of work and workers, fundamental to the production of wealth, but also from fair labour relations, fundamental to the fairer redistribution of the wealth produced. It is necessary to break with the right-wing policy and its options for blind compliance with deficit rules and for the promotion of large economic groups. It is necessary to support productive sectors and invest in public services, which are so necessary within the country and its development. It is necessary to reverse the options that led to the extinction of fragesias, closure of health extensions and schools, GNR posts and post stations, courts and disarticulation and de-investment in public transport, problems aggravated by the inadequate allocation of Community funds, applied on the basis of the market and not due to the need for correction of the country's inequalities. Investment in public health services is necessary to overcome the visible problems in the Portalegre district: the small number of beds available, the difficulty of attracting and fixing professionals, the use of equipment and buildings beyond their useful time of life. It is necessary to solve the problems of higher education institutions, which are fundamental to the social and economic cohesion of the territories and which are struggling with old problems of underfinancing and the scarcity of students. These parliamentary days have confirmed that the choice regarding the topic and the territory in which it was addressed was right. These days are an important instrument of work and political intervention. The Portalegre district, like other interior territories, shows the potential of the country. This district has already had an industrialization level that ensured in the region the transformation of local resources, of which were examples of the cork industry or the laniphys. These industries were destroyed or relocated with a decisive contribution from the European Union to the deindustrialisation process it promoted. The destruction of public structures such as the Coudelaria de Alter is another example of the destruction of regional resources. The PCP understands that the development of Portugal is done counting on the whole country. There will never be abdicating development from parts of the national territory. The needs and policy options required by the country’s development are identified. The CFP pointed them out in the conclusions of its days: the appreciation of national production, which is the response to the need for food sovereignty and the elimination of asymmetries; the elimination of the serious aspects of the Labour Code for the valorization of work and workers; a Public Administration at the service of the country with investment in public services, particularly in the health, education, transport and communications sectors. These are strategic sectors at the service of national development, ensuring their public control and preventing the destruction of strategic companies, facing the constraints and limitations that prevent our development, either taxes from external structures to the country, or those that governments self-imposed, with a view to making a good figure in front of Brussels or corresponding to the interests of the large economic groups that are not those of the country and the Portuguese. The years of disinvestment and abandonment of vast territories of the country by successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS require an inversion of these options considering all the territories in a policy of comprehensive development of the country and of territorial and social cohesion. Without the investment that has been denied to you over the years, the interior will not go beyond the problems it is subjected to. It is because of the commitment of the CFP to the Portuguese and the country that we bring to the discussion the importance and need of public investment for development. It is also with this commitment that we face the constraints and interests installed. That's what the Portuguese can expect from the PCP. That's what the country needs! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u57	Mr João Ramos, four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u58	Mr. President, one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u59	You have the floor from now on to ask for clarification, Mr Cristovão Crespo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u60	Mr. President, Mr. João Ramos, I begin by greeting the CFP for its parliamentary days in the Portalegre district. Hearing Mr. João Ramos, it seems that the Portuguese Communist Party has not already approved three State budgets which have involved much of what has not been done in the Portalegre district. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u61	The CFP cannot forget its responsibilities because, in fact, what we have checked over the past two and a half years is a clear disinvestment in the Portalegre district. Mr. Deputies, he has visited, and regularly, the local health unit of the north of Alentejo, the Hospitals of Portalegre and Elvas, and I have not heard a word at the heart of the State Budget when, successively, each of the Budgets abruptly cut the funds for health in the district. The honourable Member has repeatedly complained to the district, but I have never heard him complain about what was the non-consecration of health resources in the district. That is why, honourable Member, what sounds here today, after having held the parliamentary days of the Portuguese Communist Party, is the false, is the justification, is the self-justification in relation to the populations of the district manifested in all the complaints that it made over the 6 minutes that took its political declaration. But, Mr President, I think this is always a good time to catch up on the wrong practices and the CFP has the opportunity to do so once the low-density territory status is discussed for scheduling. We therefore leave the challenge to the CFP so that it can actually approve this status, to meet what is a sufficiently important proposal for the region and for the district and for all regions of low density. We did not want to leave today to take advantage of the opportunity to pose this challenge to the CFP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u62	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u63	Mr President, Mr Cristóvão Crespo, I thank you for the questions you have raised. I'd like to bring the different levels of responsibility up the table. The PSD has had ministers, it has been in governments, which the CFP has not had, so if it is to balance the levels of responsibility here we can start there. Even recently, just over two years ago, the PSD was in the government and did not solve these problems in the Portalegre district, particularly those of health, which did not start now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u64	Now don't solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u65	But in his speech he left an important part of the Portalegre district, because when the PCP, in what it is its parliamentary intervention, fights to make it possible to increase pensions, reforms and salaries are also benefiting an important part of the Portalegre district, where most people are pensioners. It is true that it is very little and that it is far from what is needed, but it is very different from what was done when the PSD and CDS were government, and that is important for the Portalegre district. He did not mention, for example, that if the State budget finds that there are disablings for investment in health this results from a proposal from the CFP included in the State budget. It is entered in the following form: « investments for hospitals », proposed by the CFP. The PCP has come to do its work of defense of the interior of the country, of defense of the District of Portalegre, which did not elect Members, but we have not abdicated from defending here those who are unfortunately the options of the PSD and CDS for that district and for the interior of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u66	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u67	Mr President, Mr Ramos, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and to say that when we look inside we cannot look at the need for public investment, because the fight against asymmetries will necessarily be made by public investment. Public investment cannot be subordinated to alternative austerity logics, as they defend and defend, the PSD and CDS-PP, nor can it be subordinated and conditioned by a policy for Brussels to see, as the current government so often does, sacrificing public investment according to a deficit and a deficit containment policy to show out there. When we talk about public investment we talk about many areas, but access to health is fundamental. And throughout the country, but in particular, this access is often damaged by the lack of public investment. Two days ago, we heard 12 directors of service at the Beja hospital alerting for an imminent collapse of some of the services of this hospital for not opening competitions for the hiring of specialists. And when we talk about Beja, we also talk about Évora, Portalegre, Elvas and many other hospitals, from Faro to Bragança. For this reason, the Left Block has already scheduled for this week — it will be discussed tomorrow — two very concrete projects: one, which defines the requirement to open competitions and the placement of specialists up to 30 days after their training and another, which defines that all professionals who have been placed under the influenza contingency plan must be hired permanently for hospitals and health units for which they have been hired. The question you would like to leave to Mr Deputies is whether you think these projects that will be discussed tomorrow are also fundamental for investment and for the revitalization of the interior and the National Health Service as a whole. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u68	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u69	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I thank you for the question you have raised. It is true that the interior of the country is very short of public investment and that health is one of the great victims of this shortage of public investment. Unfortunately for the health sector, this shortage and these difficulties do not occur only in the interior, they occur throughout the country, but they are much more felt there, even by the small number of units that exist. The example of Portalegre and also the example of Beja are paradigmatic in this difficulty, for example, in the establishment of health professionals in the country. The CFP has long been saying that, in order to solve these problems, administrative measures are not enough, because often the answer is that competitions are opened but that they are deserts, no one wants them. That is why political measures are needed to solve this problem, and it is not enough to open the competitions. in this sense, the CFP presented a legislative initiative that aims to create a system of placement of professionals within the country, including the establishment of doctors, to give this political response that was already possible to give at other times in the history of the country, when it was necessary to solve some problems. We accompany the concern regarding the issue of hiring nurses who were under the contingency plans. The CFP has, in fact, an identical content initiative and has already announced the proposal to present an investment plan for the National Health Service, because it is well needed from these investments and they are fundamental. within the country, there are fewer alternatives, distances are greater, there is no mobility and people have a lot of difficulty in moving. Therefore, as proximity is particularly felt in various sectors, such as justice, education and, in particular, in health, health units are required among well-trained populations and with the professionals needed for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u70	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u71	Mr President, Mr João Ramos, I congratulate the CFP on its parliamentary work. He addressed the issue relating to the environmental problems that the Tejo River has been suffering, with a higher incidence over the last three years, and the CDS also accompanies these concerns. I have two questions to ask you, Mr President. Mr Member, do you think that the recommendations of the Tejo River Pollution Monitoring Commission of November 2016 had been approved and implemented by the Government, do you not think that this mysterious case of the difficulty of collecting samples on the Tejo, which was news in recent days, could have been avoided? The CDS presented a proposal for on-the-spot samples, when they repeatedly exceeded limit values, could be used as a means of testing, because we excused being 24 hours in custody for sample collection. This CDS recommendation is already 2016. Mr President, if the Government had implemented this recommendation from the Commission itself, do you not think that this episode could have been avoided and samples collected earlier? What is it that the CFP, now part of this government solution, intends to propose to the Government once and for all to resolve this scourge in the river Tejo, which is not only environmental but also social and economic? What contributions and proposals does the CFP have to solve this issue once and for all? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u72	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u73	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Indeed, the problems arising in the Tejo and environmental issues were present in the CFP's parliamentary days. We made a visit to the river Tejo and also made an approach to the issue of intensive production in the agricultural area because they both pose environmental problems. The CFP is concerned, in particular, with the issue of the Tejo River, and therefore it presented an initiative because it believes that monitoring and inspection must be strengthened, but in order for this to be developed and such monitoring to be carried out, there must be a strengthening of resources. Madam Member, this is a matter of concern that we may have in common, but there are fundamental questions on which the CFP and the CSD differ deeply, and we have identified them in our journey. We understand that the development of growth and the increase in production must be done by respecting environmental values and safeguarding the rights and interests of the people. These situations occur in the Tejo and also in the intensification of agricultural activity, which increased production but did not promote the development, in many cases, that was required for the regions. For example, the intensification of agricultural activity did not solve unemployment problems, it did not solve depopulation problems, it did not make enough dynamics of local economies. That is, it has increased production, but it has not solved any other problems. That is why the CFP believes that there must be — and we have already announced that we will present an initiative in this regard — monitoring in these cases. When there is an increase in production and a profound transformation of activity in a particular region, there should be environmental, demographic, social and heritage protection monitoring — another problem that is above the table. There is a need for monitoring to safeguard the interests of the populations living in the territories because « development » is different from « growth ». We may be producing more, but we may not be promoting development, on the contrary, and this happens in the intensification of agricultural activity. We are producing more, but we are concentrating property, profits and wealth, which is contrary to existing development needs. This is where the CFP intends to intervene and it is in this matter that the CFP departs deeply from the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u74	To request clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u75	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mr Ramos and the Communist Party's Parliamentary Group for their parliamentary days in the Portalegre district. Mr Ramos, in his political statement, said well: « (...) as in other territories of the interior of the country(...) ». But perhaps, it has sinned by default, because there are asymmetries that in the Portalegre district feel more strongly and that they constitute greater concerns for those who still reside there, from then on in the area of health (Elvas and Portalegre hospitals and the 16 health centers of the district) in the area of communication routes (you know, Mr. Deputie, and I know, that the communication route linking the two main cities of the district is forbidden to heavy traffic) and in the area of hydroagricultural equipment, so desired to cause a new economy to flourish in the district, from then the so-called barrier of Pisão. Another concern has to do with the appreciation of the Polytechnic Institute of Portalegre, an increasingly poor member of higher education at the national level, but which, for us, is of extreme importance and must be defended as an important national asset. There is also the bet on the cross-border relationship and on what our economy can be increased and increased together with the other side of the border. This is what we are concerned about, and this is what a strong majority of parliament and a progressive government need to do in order to « return to the text ». however, the honourable Member has forgotten to mention what has already been done, such as the reopening of the courts of Castelo de Vide, de Nisa and de Avis ; it has forgotten to say that a great and promising project of sustainability for the Coudelaria de Alter do Chão ; it has forgotten to say that the South International Corridor will allow Elvas to acquire a new centrality as well as happened at Ponte de Sor with the aerodrome.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u77	The problem is that if we reduce our political action, as did the previous majority, the CABs (cost-benefit analyses) will always be negative. With us in the government and with the parliamentary support we have given to this government it is possible to change the text, as you said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u78	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u79	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, I thank you for the question you have raised. Indeed, the District of Portalegre has very deep problems, possibly deeper than in other regions of the country. In fact, this is verifiable in this House: the Portalegre circle was one of the least elected Members, only two. This demonstrates its demographic reality, but I repeat, a demographic reality that is a consequence and not the cause of the problems of the district. This demographic reality, aging and depopulation are the consequences of policies carried out over the years. That is why these districts need a political reversal, as we have mentioned in the political declaration. The honourable Member referred to a number of problems, particularly those relating to politics. We understand that polytechnics are fundamental within the framework of the social and territorial cohesion of that district, but it has problems, like the other polytechnics, of chronic underfinancing, which must be overcome. He also spoke about the importance of cross-border relations. It has already been possible, for example, to move on the railway and put back some things that had been determined. However, the rail connection of Beirut to Cáceres remains interrupted. Given the importance of cross-border links, it is necessary to look at these issues, as it is necessary to look at the entire road structure of the district. Even today, we have had the opportunity, as you have seen, to put this question to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure. We looked forward to more accurate answers on this matter for solving the problems. Finally, the honourable Member also referred to the Pisão dam. The CFP has already put forward a proposal on this subject, which has been adopted unanimously, but needs to be taken over by the Government. When we raise the question, the Minister for Agriculture says that the problem is the Ministry of the Environment. Therefore, there should be a governmental cohesion around this issue to help solve the serious and deep problems that the district has, because it has potential, and these potentialities of the District of Portalegre and the interior of the country must be placed at the service of the integral development of the country. [[PCP applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u80	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last weekend, the PSD and its authors have again put on the political agenda the theme of decentralization of competences for local authorities. It will never be excessive to show that local authorities play an essential role in the country's economic growth process, social and territorial cohesion and in meeting the needs of citizens. Much of what the country is today owes it to its autarchs. Local power is undoubtedly the exercise of responsibility for a self-recognizable, socially recognized power, which can and should be progressively expanded. Local power has much more to give Portugal and decentralization pursues this objective. The PSD, a party to local power, has always had a reformist view of the state based on a decentralized public administration. in this sense, the previous government, even in a particularly adverse context, has taken significant and successful steps in the process of decentralization of competences. This reality was also noted by the current Prime Minister, at the time President of the City Council of Lisbon, who, at a conference in the city of Porto, stated on this point that, and I quote, «I must acknowledge that I have found more good will of the current government than of the two previous socialist governments ». Unfortunately, the concrete experiences that gave very positive results and that mattered further were interrupted with the new government. For this reason, with the legitimacy of those who have always been on the front line in the process of decentralization, the PSD convened all political forces for this debate in April 2016, presenting our intentions when we discuss the national reform plan here. at that time, the parliamentary left unleashed them. The PSD again brought its proposals to debate during the discussion of the State budget for 2017, but the Government and the parties supporting it rejected this debate at that opportunity. Let's not budge. at the beginning of 2017, we again presented a legislative package in this area and waited for the Government's proposal, which would arrive at Parliament 16 months late. A clearly insufficient proposal, which is not accompanied by the sectoral diplomas which are inherent in it, without any studies and without any knowledge at that time, a single line on the proposal for a revision of the Local Finance Act. However, we do not fail to regard it as a valid proposal which should be taken into account in Parliament. We did the debate in the specialty, in a working group and not in a specific committee, which we proposed and which would favour a cross-cutting discussion. The PS, which likes to say that it is in favour of setting up possible committees to deal with issues relevant to the country, and decentralization is a matter relevant to the country, was the same PS which, unbelievably, made the establishment of a possible committee impossible to address the issue of decentralization. The debate was possible, where early it was concluded that without sectoral diplomas, without studies and without prior knowledge of the amendments to the Local Finance Act it was not possible to move forward, reasons which motivated the Socialist Party to request postponement of the vote on the initiatives. The time, this enemy of the present, is that he does not forgive. A 2. the Legislative Session has come to an end, the final elections go there, the third State budget of this government has been approved, we have walked quickly to the end of the legislature, but the decentralization of powers, « the cornerstone of the reform of the state », in Mr. Prime Minister's words, has not passed that very much. Here too, the word given, the word repeatedly given, was not an honest word. Upon arrival at this time, neither was decentralisation nor continued with the process of delegation of powers initiated by the previous Government. They lost the authorities, they lost the populations, we all lost. We have no framework law, no sectoral diplomas consensualized with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), we have no studies, neither the elements nor the preparatory work of the Government's initiatives - the delivery of which Parliament has claimed eight months ago - we have no new law on local finance, but we know that the proposal reached by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities deserved hard repairs from that Association. in fact, it can be read in its opinion, and I quote: « as far as the main relevant issues are concerned, there are surprising omissions, and almost everything that is more important is to be defined and regulated, being postponed, without realisation in the law itself». Elucidative, no doubt! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decentralizing competences in local power is an act of intelligence, but decentralising without basing and financing the powers transferred does not go beyond political fraud. The PSD will not give to this petition. The PS Government, this seems to continue voluntarily to hold more radical parliamentary united wills, which objectively does not want decentralization. With all this, you can see why this does not move forward. PSD is where you've always been. It is at the forefront of fighting for the strengthening of local power and sharing of responsibility in the construction of the future. It is next to the municipalities and the parish. He is next to the Portuguese who ask the State to know how to place its functions in the hands of those who perform them best, for the benefit of all. It is next to decentralization, with the same direction and determination as always. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u83	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira... [[Pause.]] It seems that we have moved on to four inscriptions to request clarifications. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau makes the endless call for entries to be made during the speeches. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u84	I will answer two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u85	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u86	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, first of all I would like to commend the PSD for bringing the issue of decentralization back to the debate in this House. from the Socialist Party and the Government, we only heard about this subject through news that comes to us through social communication. In fact, there are many times when we have heard the PS and the government talk about this issue and the great will that they have to deal with, but out there and not here. Despite the debate in society, with the authorships, with the associations of municipalities, with the parish and with the various entities of the sectors involved, being very important in defining and clarifying what we want and we can do, we feel that the PS and the government have fled to the debate in this Parliament, which has the ultimate task of approving this very important reform for the country and for all Portuguese. Otherwise, let us see: the Government presented in this House a proposal for a framework law for decentralisation on 1 March 2017, with the supposed intention to pass this framework law, general and abstract, as soon as possible ; during the discussion of the topic, in the specialty, we heard dozens of entities and we did not doubt what much would be done and developed before the adoption of that framework law ; the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself, in the opinion it issued, said that the working groups set up to work in the process met rarely, having no exhaustive discussions, nor developments that would provide for final conclusions ; and in addition, if I did not fail my memory, because several months have passed, the Deputy Minister of the Time, today Minister of Internal Administration, told the Members that the sectoral legislative decrees would enter into this Parliament as proposals. How many have you entered so far, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira? Just one! Just one! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to hear members of the Government speaking about the decentralization and urgency of its implementation, we continue to hear members of the Government and the Socialist Party guaranteeing deadlines and dates, but if we look at how the whole process is being conducted, we ask: do the Government and the PS really want to complete this process? Oh, my God! Note, Mr. Jorge Oliveira, in the preliminary draft of the new local finance law, according to the social communication, only in 2023 will the state pass to the authorities all the funds planned. That is why, Mr President, you are sure that it is the will of the Socialist Party and that it is the will of the Government to proceed and continue this important reform initiated by the previous Government? It is that we in the CDS have great doubts that this is a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u87	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u88	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the honourable Member on the subject of discussion and I think it would be important to make a reference in this discussion: if the principle of decentralization is a positive principle, we should look at it in its entirety and not just focus on the transfer of competences from the central administration to the authorities, because decentralization is much more than that. Decentralisation is to have the appropriate link between the various levels of power in our State and the truth is that there is still one missing, which is regionalization, and this is a central issue in this discussion. When we talk about decentralization, we have to put on the table the need to create the administrative regions, which puts our Constitution, because this will respond to many problems, including problems related to regional development, which today the CFP has brought to the discussion, also in the Assembly of the Republic. But when we talk about decentralization, there is also another aspect that needs to be mentioned and that often the PSD does not address — and does not address it because it has extinguished them — which are the parish. If we want an administrative organization of the State that best serves the people, then we will put the parish back where the people will be, because that is also what the populations and the authorities have come to say here to the Assembly of the Republic when we discussed our initiative for the replacement of the parish. There is another aspect to be mentioned, Mr President. in his speech, he refers to positive experiences, and I think he was talking about the 2015 PSD / CDS liability process, regarding inter-administrative contracts, but that is not the reality. over the last few years, what we have verified is that the transfer of competences to the authorities has always meant two things: deresponsibility of the government of what its responsibilities and its competences and transfer of charges to the authorities, because the means and conditions for the exercise of these same powers have not been taken over. And this was also present in the law of the responsibility of the PSD / CDS, in the transfer of competences in the area of the authorities, in which no means were transferred, too, to be able to cope with these same competencies. We agree with the analysis of these processes and of this proposal by the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u89	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u90	I'll be done. I'll be wired. We agree that it is necessary to have the elements and the studies that allow us to analyze and reflect a proposal with such a dimension in order to understand, indeed, what is intended to transfer to the authorities, if they are competences, if they are charged. That's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u91	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u92	The PSD also wants to transfer more charges to the authorities, above all at the time when it was responsible for reducing the participation of the authorities in state taxes? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u93	To reply, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u94	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco and Mrs Paula Santos for their questions. Allow me, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, to begin by answering Mrs Paula Santos, who brought here the issue of regionalization. Mr Deputy, the process of implementing the administrative regions is enshrined in Article 256. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. If any party intends to implement regionalization in Portugal, please comply with constitutional requirements. If that is the will of the Communist Party, convinces the left parliament, the other partners who support the government. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u95	That's not the PSD's will!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u96	It's part of a majority! There's a majority! What are you waiting for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u97	You have a majority, Mrs. Member, there is a left-wing parliamentary majority. Convention, please, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u98	We're convinced, you're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u99	That's not the PSD will, it's said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u100	But, Madam Member, regionalisation is not an essential condition, nor is it an impediment for decentralization to occur, who only clings to this foundation of regionalisation — in fact, as it has happened in recent years — because it really does not want to do regionalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u102	You didn't hear everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u103	If the honourable Member and the Communist Party stick to regionalisation, it is because they do not want to decentralise competences. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The honourable Member also spoke about the question of the re-evaluation of the parish. It is a good theme, Mrs. Member, and it is a good theme to bring here the results of the study prepared by the technical group set up by, its government and which was presented in December 2016. contrary to what, demagogically, the Communist Party propagated, what was the result of this investigation? That 60 % of the parish did not feel the need to respond to the investigation. Repeat, 60%! And, of the aggregated frequencies that have responded, 74 are opposed to any revision of the reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u104	Go talk to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u105	He also spoke of the delegation of powers operated by the previous Government. Yes, yes, Mrs. Deputy, the PSD is very proud to have closed a contractual programme with 34 municipalities, covering 1, 8 million inhabitants. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u106	And in terms of population?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u107	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I thank you for the historical record, which you made regarding the process of decentralization and I say: « Yes, we also follow the concerns of the CDS-PP ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u108	Further requests for clarification to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira have now been made for this purpose by Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u109	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira for the subject he is introducing here, that of decentralization. We all know that decentralization of competences is a constitutional imperative that has not been effectively carried out in more than 40 years of democracy. The Constitution of the Republic provides for the transfer of powers to organs directly elected by the populations — authorities, parishes, municipalities and regions — and indeed, the principle of subsidiarity is far from being resolved, it is a sort of dead letter when the central State consumes about 90 % of the State's financial resources, leaving only 10 % for the authorities. The Left Block is in favour of decentralization of competences in its entirety and considers that it is very insufficient if, indeed, it does not take into account regionalisation as well. Regionalization to which the PSD has always opposed, over several decades, alone or together, in particular with the Socialist Party. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, in fact decentralization of competences is also for the parish, those who were so mistreated by the previous government, which you supported by the PSD / CDS. Former Minister Relvas cut off the « rule and framework », extinguished 1069 parishioners at national level to the wake of populations, to the wake of the autarchs, tonicating the lives of the most difficult populations. What authority, what morale does the PSD have to come here to talk about parishioners? Speaking of regionalization of competences for the parish? [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputies, the Left Block will present a project for the creation of new frequencies, supporting what many autarchs and many populations are defending, including the restoration of fragesias. If this goes ahead, I ask whether the PSD will approve, whether it will agree with democracy, whether it will be on the side of the population and the side of the autarchs, supporting the restoration of these fries, or whether it will be against. I would also like to know whether it will be in favour of or against what the Left Block defends, which is the figure of the local referendum, an instrument of superior democracy that the people have for it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u110	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u111	Madam President, I begin by welcoming the Social Democratic Party for bringing this issue to debate, and I am glad that they brought it. We had already missed so much political momentum, so much political silence, in these times of clarification of the PSD, about decentralization, and therefore they are very, but really very welcome. This issue has not come out of the Socialist Party's permanent agenda. It is a theme and a reform that is our Government Programme, which is on the agenda for the decade, which is included in the reform programme and which is, above all, fundamental to us, and I believe that for all the Members present here, at the bottom of Portugal, for the Portuguese, we will continue this constitutional journey that we started in 1976, increasing the powers of local power. The local power, as I said initially, and very well, can do even more, can grow even more, either at the level of the parish, or at the level of the municipalities, or at the level of the intermunicipal level. Therefore, I want to tell the PSD that the PS has from the outset demonstrated full willingness to create consensus and convergences and that it has not been stopped. This permanent agenda for decentralization was present throughout the process that began with the State Reform Guidance Document 2016, a document which was also discussed with the partners, who are the preferred partners of the Government and all of us - the Portuguese municipalities, the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ) - and then the auscultation of the Territorial Consultation Council, with regard to the proposal for a framework law. It is a framework law, a matrix law, from which a set of 25 areas are then densified so that, in the various sectors — of health education, social area, among others — we can, in essence, make the state closer, more agile, more representative and more democratic, giving these powers to local power, universally and with a fair distribution of resources. So, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, there was no democratic deficit here, no participation deficit, no hearing deficit, because we have worked with all partners and listen to all entities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u112	The local finance law has been the subject of a first opinion by ANMP, and we know that it will also shortly be its final opinion and that the Council of Ministers will shortly approve this strategic financial instrument, where, of course, the resources available will be leveraged, which are fundamental for us to have skills calibrated in a good financial envelope and with more resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u113	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u114	That is why, Mr President, I would like to leave you with a challenge of course. For the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, this reform is essential, it is urgent and, according to the Portuguese municipalities, the new autoarchs are awaiting this reform in this new mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u115	You really have to finish, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u116	That's what came out of the ANMP Congress, Portimão. from ANAFRE, it is also consensual and therefore we want to move forward. The process is here, in the House of Democracy, and it has all the conditions to advance in the specialty. We wait for you, as always, for a project that is suprapartary. Finally, Madam President, I want to say that Dr. Rui Rio said that this is the banana that the regime needs. It needs a wide-ranging debate and requires a law that is above the parties. This is the challenge of your new leader and we cannot fail to see ourselves in it. This is a great fan and I am glad that you made this political statement to shake this process again, which you cannot wait any longer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u117	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u118	Madam President, Mr. João Vasconcelos and Mrs. Susana Amador, I thank the questions you asked me. Mr. João Vasconcelos raised here again the question which had already been raised by the Portuguese Communist Party regarding the regionalization and re-evaluation of the territorial reform of the parish. The recitals are the same and, by means of time, I will not, of course, reproduce them here. However, did you call into question the legitimacy of the PSD to defend your ideas? Oh, my God! The biggest party or one of the biggest parties in local power? Oh, my God! of local power? Oh, my God! But who's the Left Block? Oh, my God! How many chamber presidents has the Left Block to invoke the lack of legitimacy of the Democratic Social Party? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] The Left Block? Oh, my God! The Left Block is certainly not! Mr. João Vasconcelos says that the Left Block is next to decentralization. You're not, sir! He's not! And it is not for a very simple reason: a party that says that the authorities are unable to sideline economic interests, a party that says that the authorities will take advantage of the decentralization package to open the doors to the negotiations with the private and to privatize the public services is a party that does not trust the autarchs, it is a party that views the autarchs as dangerous people who sell themselves to the interests of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u120	Mrs Susana Amador, I regret to disappoint her, but the Socialist Party has not always been available for dialogue, nor has you always been available for dialogue. The Social Democratic Party presented its intentions, as regards decentralization, during the discussion of the national reform plan. Do you know what the government reacted to? « These are measles that come out of time and posthumously». Later, in the State Budget, we again presented a package of legislative initiatives. Do you know what the reaction of the Socialist Party was? It was Mrs. Susana Amador's reaction. In other words, she said that the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party on decentralization merited the rejection of the PS because they ended up with a triple deficit: a deficit of universality, a deficit of auscultation, a deficit of participation and a deficit of memory. And he condemned, so that there could be no doubt of the lack of dialogue of the Socialist Party, that this sudden concern of the PSD, in opposition mode, with the constitution and decentralization, revealed a huge breakdown, lack of shame and, above all, lack of memory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u121	It's just from the mouth out! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u122	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has discussed in recent days another edition of the so-called « school ranking ». Rankings tell half truths, and half truth can be a lie, but they must be analyzed. Rankings are an occasion for a confrontation of ideologies, but that does not bother us, because that is how democracy is. We do not argue that if we stop disseminating the data that causes the rankings, what we want is that the analysis work of these elements will be improved. Unfortunately, there are still those who use rankings as propaganda or as a weapon of shooting, for example private school against public school. There are many who fall into the trap of ignoring the difference between data, information and knowledge. And I say "trap" because we only get information from data if they are structured, interpreted, contextualized. And we only come to the knowledge if we are able to mobilize data and information to understand, to build answers to well-identified challenges, to make relevant decisions. It should therefore be stressed that, over the years, much has been done to improve the methods of analysis and to avoid dangerous simplifications around the rankings. A good example of this work is the "direct course of success" indicator, built on the basis of information provided by the Ministry of Education for two years. Indicator that not only evaluates positive grades in exams, also evaluates pathways without retention; robust indicator because it combines internal and external evaluation, which takes into account the situation of doslunos each school receives at the entry of the cycle, indicator that did not press the retention. It is important to underline this because the Ministry of Education does not only refuse to refuse a blind ranking, the Ministry of Education works to add intelligence to this public exercise, so that the rankings do not reinforce wrong pedagogical practices and, indeed, promote the overall educational mission of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we must recognize that there are interesting signs in that direction. For example, a well-known online news site, in addition to the exam ranking, developed, with the data provided by the Ministry of Education, a success ranking inspired by the indicator « direct course of success ». This success ranking allows us to make comments on the interactive list. For example, for high school, the first 20 schools in the exam ranking are all private. We then ask for the top 20 in the ranking of success: 10 are public and 10 are private. We do the same exercise for 9. year. The first 20 schools in the exam ranking are all private. in the first 20 in the ranking of success, 15 are public and 5 are private. Meaningful. We have found that there are an important number of schools well placed in the exam ranking, whose portrait is much less favorable in the success ranking. And this is systematically ignored in some fat titles that are done for these days. This has to be said, because metrics are not neutral. Choosing to look preferably for the exams is to devalue the largest part of the evaluation, which is internal evaluation, and also to look exclusively for the cognitive dimension, devaluing the dimensions of values and attitudes. Repeat: metrics are not neutral. We do not want metrics that ignore the work of schools in favour of inclusion of students with disabilities, nor do we want metrics that devalue work with migrants and minorities, nor do we want metrics that diminish schools that overcome unfair inequalities. We do not want to completely eliminate the elements of competition that exist in the evaluation, because competition is also part of life, but making comparisons that are limited to exacerbate competition is little educational. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't want my metrics. The studies, carried out some time ago by the University of Porto, which concluded that private schools prepare better for exams, but prepare for better performance in higher education, should make us think, because we do not accept that rankings are an instrument of facilitation, neither a short and immediate look at such serious subjects. Just as it is known that there is a clear association between belonging to a socially disadvantaged environment and having more success in school, we do not accept that a type of schools continue to deny public scrutiny the context indicators. It is important that nothing in this exercise is propaganda. What we need is to take lessons for the future. We need to know why public school is not yet able to overcome the socio-economic and cultural disadvantages of departure. We need to know why so many students don't end high school at the reference age. We need to consider whether it will be necessary to change the model of access to higher education, to give another breathing to the secondary school. We need to know why there are schools that are successful in coping with adverse contexts and in giving the best of the world to their students, what is the difference and how we can multiply the lessons that these schools give us. And, of course, we need to continue to strengthen the right policies so that everyone can realize the right to learn. We need to continue to apply the evaluation model to the learning service instead of the evaluation to the selection service. We need to continue the measurement, trusting the schools, who are able to adapt their strategies and plans to the results of the measurement reports. We need to continue the program to promote school success, because that must be our fundamental course. We need to continue with curriculum autonomy and flexibility, so that teachers and the entire educational community have more room to do what they know to do so well. Give public information about learning? Yes! Yes! But respecting the work that is done by students as people and not only as examiners and respecting what is done in all dimensions of learning and not only in the disciplines with examination. We are working to make this the focus of all this exercise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u124	Mr Porfirio Silva, you have signed up to request clarifications, five of us. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u125	I respond to the first two gentlemen. Members and then the next three, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u126	All right, Mr. Deputies. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u127	Mr President, first of all, I congratulate Mr Porfirio Silva for bringing the subjects of education to this plenary. I would like to start by saying to you, Mr, that your speech has made me think that you are afraid of the Socialist Party and the Government. Why are the Socialist Party and the Government afraid of the rankings that are published? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u128	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u129	Are you afraid of your own inadequacies? Oh, my God! Are you afraid of what you don't? Oh, my God! Are you afraid of politics that doesn't exist? Oh, my God! What are you afraid of, sir? I heard the Minister say that he didn't like rankings very much, but that it was important to have some information. And I also heard Mr. Director-General say that they were an important instrument. I therefore do not understand this defeatist drift of the honourable Member here this afternoon. It's just that the rankings have a purpose. What I would like was that, with the results of the rankings, the government would do something, because they show us a lot. The honourable Member says, 'we need this, we need that,' and finally, we need several things, but what I ask you is actually why the government does not. More: Mr Deputy criticizes the rankings, but there are two and a half years ago in the government. If they don't like rankings, why don't they end them? This courage exists only to come within doors to say that rankings do not serve and do not provide a good service, because then there is no measure in favour of transparency and information that is consistent with what I said here. Sir, I am more concerned about other things. The honourable Member spoke of the rankings and various other questions, but he did not speak of a concrete one that he would like to put to it. The Minister said that there was no lack of operational assistants in schools, but this was denied by the school directors, which shows that he does not know the reality and that clearly these operational assistants, who have been promised for a long time, will no longer come in time to meet the needs of this school year. With so much talk about education, you have done very little, Mr. Deputies, and today you haven't even remembered highlighting the drop in school dropout. And I leave this note here, because I like to be consistent in the political discourse. It is that, if the PSD criticized it a year ago, with data that the Socialist Party said would have to do with precisely the fall in the unemployment rate, today, clearly, the country is pleased. It is good news for the Portuguese, who would like to highlight, greeting teachers, students, school community, parents, something the Socialist Party did not remember to do this afternoon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u130	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u131	Madam President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to ask, from now on, how can rankings be fair, when the lives of thousands and thousands of students and their families are still so unjust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u133	... when there is still so much to be complied with in the Basics Law of the Education System, when there is still so little school social action, when the school is still debating with very serious problems of lack of human, material and financial resources, when there is still so much degraded and asymmetric school in our country, when there is still a lack of equipment, when the number of students per class is still high and needs to be reduced, when there are still delays in the placement of teaching staff, when there is still a lack of non-teaching staff, when there is still a precarious situation for workers, when there is a devaluation of continuous evaluation with the existence of examinations in the current models? Oh, my God! And this is also a question that we have to put, because, in fact, a recent study by a researcher from the University of Aveiro has emerged, which says precisely that national examinations promote social inequalities among students, pushing educational establishments to a commercialist logic, where the great beneficiary is exactly the market of the centers of explanation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u135	This is not turned off, because what is involved here is to tell the students that they have to work for the result in the exams, which will benefit, directly and precisely, private interests that, increasingly, will make their way inside the public school. Therefore, it is necessary to understand what measures will be taken so that this does not happen and that there is no such invasion. But this study also tells us that there are a number of students who do not resort to explanations, because their socio-economic condition simply does not allow them to pay for this tool. So, with the rankings, we are comparing what is incomparable, those who have and those who do not have, those who can get to a school and pay explanations and those who can't, those who have a school with all the conditions of operation — heated, well-equipped — and those who have to wear blankets and gloves to do their studies. In fact, this is the question we leave: when does this end? It does not seem to us that rankings value, in particular, the public school and the one that is a constitutional and universal right that is foreseen, which is the right to education on an equal footing. That is, therefore, the question that the CFP leaves here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u136	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u137	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Nilza de Sena and Mrs Ana Mesquita for the questions put and I will reply in this order. Mrs Nilza de Sena, on the questions you have asked about my political statement on behalf of my parliamentary group, in order to be kind, I will have to tell you that there has been something, from what I said, that you have escaped, because in reality nothing that was the assumptions of your questions consisted of my intervention. We know well to distinguish between data, information and knowledge and we know that, with the same data, you can build bad information or good information and, with good information, you can build bad knowledge or good knowledge. And our struggle is not to eliminate or hide the data — I take advantage of it to say, because it seems that not everyone knows about this, that the Ministry of Education does not make rankings, the Ministry of Education provides data — our struggle is to make the quality of the analysis better, so that the public analysis and debate on this matter are more and more serious and that we know how to focus on what matters. I think I have explained what I understand about what matters and therefore there is no fear. As far as the rest is concerned, when you say that the Government must, in a certain sense, do so, and I congratulate you, because in the second part of your speech, you have already given an answer to the very question which you have raised. The data released by the INE today show that the government is doing well: the rate of early drop-out of education and training, better known as « school drop-out rate », was 12 % last year. It's just the lowest value ever! It's just the lowest value since there's a record, Mrs. Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what the country is doing, and we don't forget. But INE also said today, with data on young people who don't study or work, that in 2017 we had the lowest value in the series, which goes back to six years. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you ask what the government is doing, I answer that what the country is doing is this. PSD is that you can't be distracted from what the country is doing. Mrs Ana Mesquita, in fact, my answer is very simple: all that Mrs Mesquita says is true. All that Mrs Deputies says there is a need to do is right, with all that Mrs Deputies pointed out as areas in which we have to do more the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agrees,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u138	Do not do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u139	... we just hope that it will also agree that together, the government and this parliamentary majority, we have done enough and what we need is to build conditions to continue to do more, if possible more quickly and better. The direction is this and I think we will agree not only on the requirement but also on the determination to continue to do, to continue to answer the questions that it raises and which are the real questions to which we have to answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u140	We will continue with the remaining requests for clarification. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor for the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u141	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, you are here to say that we must avoid dangerous simplifications of rankings, ignoring or wanting to ignore that rankings are, in themselves, dangerous simplifications of analysis of school results and school success; you are here to say that we must prevent rankings from being propaganda of private schools, ignoring or wanting to ignore that rankings, while existing, will always be propaganda of private schools, because that is what they serve; basically, you come here saying that you need to devalue rankings but, however, brings us a political statement on rankings. The question I leave you with is this: can anyone be who is not? Oh, my God! Can the rankings not be what they are and not serve what they serve? Oh, my God! Can rankings be anything else and have less harmful effects than those that have today in public school? Oh, my God! I don't think so. And so much not that the truth is that rankings are not school rankings, they are and were created as exam rankings. It is true that it is not the Ministry that makes them, it is the press that builds them, but the Ministry provides the teaching system that allows for rankings. What the Ministry does is provide an anachronistic evaluation system that allows you to become schools according to exam results, call this exam ranking a school ranking and from there, public opinion is discussing better schools and worse schools, according to a one-dimensional analysis. There is a problem in this teaching system: it is absolutely focused on external examinations and summative evaluation, as a form of mistrust of internal evaluation. And I quote Prof. Filinto Lima, President of the Association of Directors, who says that "External evaluation assumes impersonal, a technology. The examinations are not prepared to be learned, however, for the purpose of certification, with markedly selective effects in secondary education(...). The disadvantages...” — adds — «... are surely greater than any profit that may come from its realization (...) ». So, the rankings show us that the teaching system is unfair? Of course! But the rankings contribute to the education system being unfair, just as the exams contribute to the teaching system being unfair. Is that the only problem? Don't! Are there missing operational assistants? They're missing, they've moved the door, but they're not getting to school. Is there a need to further reduce the number of students per class? Yes, it is necessary! Do you need to change the programs? It's necessary! Is it necessary to finish the goals? It's necessary! It is necessary to change the teaching system that feeds and feeds rankings, otherwise we will not cease to have an unjust teaching system, a system of teaching of social selection. Two years have passed from this legislature, much has improved, but there is a tendency to reproduce the social injustices that we are not able to fight. What I am asking, Mr President, is whether we are ready to make the necessary amendments and acknowledge that much more has to be changed so that the social injustice system can be combated that public school is reluctant to reproduce. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u142	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u143	Madam President, Mr Porfirio Silva, even foreign. I confess that when I saw him go up to the rostrum, he was prepared to hear another type of intervention and had prepared me to ask another kind of question. After all, with some satisfaction, I agree with much of what I have said about how to deal with rankings, for example, in the construction of successful paths, and about the fact that conversation cannot stop there and that it is necessary to take consequences on the need for action among schools that are signalled with worse performance. I am only sorry that because of an early and ill-prepared decision of this government, that same good conclusion cannot be withdrawn for an earlier intervention in 4. o and 6. the years, since we now no longer have indicators to have that information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u145	In any case, what these rankings, this series that is done by the media on the basis of the information provided by the Ministry still does not allow it to result from the fact that it does not integrate information on the distinctions that still mark schools very much and do not allow them to reach the same levels of success or, at least, have the same opportunity to reach those levels of success. I'm talking about employees, for example. A few days ago, on 2 February, Mr. President of ANDAEP ( National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools ), Prof. Filinto Lima, who was already mentioned here by the Left Block, had to come to the public, disagreeably, to deny the Minister that, after all, such officials who were announced in September are not placed in schools — and notified by the CDS repeatedly — and therefore had not arrived in good time. But there are more examples. Also there has been no payment for the scholarships of students of the EFA (Education and Adult Training) courses, which often need this scholarship to complete their educational course. Or the funds for the 2017 budgets, which do not allow to renew computers and invest in materials. Or even, for example, the case of the Luís de Camões School — in Lisbon, not in a remote location in the country — that cannot pay the electricity bills and, therefore, the students are complaining today because they do not have heating in the classrooms in order to be able to attend the classrooms, so they have withdrawn from them. On the other hand, about the problems of heating, which in winter are more pressing, still recently, the guardianship replied to the CDS that the solution was, see itself, in the autonomy of schools, because "there were many of them..." — and I am reading the answer — "...who have acquired, using their own recipes, small air conditioning systems", I suppose small heatings. I assume that this is the answer the Ministry gives to schools when they do not have the means, i.e. they solve the problem on the basis of your own budgets, because small warming will certainly resolve structural matters. So, honourable Member, the question is this: since we agree with the value of the rankings, what is the Ministry of Education willing to do to provide schools with the means they need to have a minimum level of equality in access to school success? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u146	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u147	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to tell you very directly that the Greens consider these rankings absurd, stigmatizing and deeply unfair. If you try to understand that these rankings exist to feed the business of private schools, you will see that they should not exist. If you think that there are schools in Portugal that choose the students who have and that there are other schools, the public, who accept all the students, will realize that the differences will be great among some. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, this is deeply stigmatizing and, as a teacher at the High School of Bathing said, this does nothing but label the students. And roll in a very unfair way. This is exactly the example of the High School of Bajo da Banheira, the last one classified in the ranking, which I will give you. Mr. Deputy, most of the students in this school choose professional courses. You know why? It is not because they do not want to attend higher education and pursue studies, it is because they come from families with poor economics and because they know that they have to enter the labour market as soon as possible, because they have to earn income as soon as possible, because they do not have money to attend higher education! Don't say this isn't unfair for these students!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u148	But who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u149	Anyone who gives any value that is to the rankings is actually to these students who are running. All the students, I repeat, all who attended the only class of 12. the year of this school and they applied for higher education entered the first option. Except for one, only one, who entered the second option, all the others entered the first option, and one of them entered for Medicine! Indeed, the effort of this teaching body and these students must be valued. Do you know how long ago the High School at Bajo da Banheira is waiting for a gymnastic pavilion? Oh, my God! I shall answer you this way, Mr President: decades ago! It's been decades! How can we talk about equality here? Mr Deputie, a school that manages that a large portion of its students do not abandon it early, that fights the absenteeism of the students, who has as one of their great merits the fact that a large part of the students can complete 12. the year is an extraordinary merit. We cannot therefore compare completely unequal realities, Mr President! We can't do it. That's a brutal injustice! I want to praise, publicly, the brutal effort of this school community,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u150	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u151	...of these teachers and of these deeply dedicated students, faced with so many difficulties, of the High School of Bajo da Banheira, the last of the ranking. Shameful ranking, sir! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u152	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u153	Madam President, I would like to thank Members Joana Mortágua, Ana Rita Bessa and Heloísa Apollonia for the questions they have asked me. I was beginning to respond to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia. Madam Member, I apologize for telling you this in this way, but I, from the rostrum, did not check if you were here when I made the statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u154	I was, I was! You said you shouldn't stop spreading! That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u155	Mrs. Member, would you like to hear the answer? It is that, as you have not heard my statement before, you do not seem to want to hear the answer either. Madam Member, I will simply tell you the following: your question is a good question, but the answer is my political statement. If you have not understood it, I have here the written text, which I will give you, to see that nothing of what you tell me is rightly directed at what I have said! I'm sorry, but I have to answer that! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] If Mrs Heloísa Apolónia didn't understand what I told her, I'll explain. We don't give up on simplifications. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u156	No, we don't surrender! For example, the indicator 'direct course of success' shows that we do not have to surrender, because the data, which can be read, show who does good work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u157	Don't show, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u158	... show who responds to the context, but also show who does not give context indicators. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] So we don't hide from the data! The Ministry of Education does not make rankings, but we also do not want the Ministry of Education to hide the data. And we are here to make the public discussion, to show that we are not afraid of the data, that we are not afraid of the comparisons and that, as I said of the rostrum, it is possible to analyze, it is possible to produce information, it is possible to produce knowledge, which does not give any substance to the way Mrs. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] And we do not surrender to the speech on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u159	Sell your soul!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u160	And the reason why we do not surrender is because we know that, by analyzing the data seriously and with all the information, we show that who is right is who is for a better, stronger public school and with a role that continues what has been done in democracy and not in the role that defends them. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, do not confuse the barriers, because this time in your question, you have confused the barriers. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Now I'm going to answer Mrs. Joana Mortagua...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u161	It's going to be even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u162	In part, I already answered your question, but now, directly to you, I wanted to answer more calmly, because you also put things with more weight, in my opinion, of course. I wanted to tell you this: the public school, in the decades of democracy, has done a lot for this country. Much work is needed for public school so that it can do more, but this is being done. I have always said that I am not disturbed by the voices within the parliamentary majority, or even outside, that they say that there is a need to do this or to do that, because that is necessary. We cannot conform, we cannot accommodate ourselves, we know that resources are still lacking. Of course, we cannot give credit to Members on that side, who now ask for the renewal of computer equipment, when during... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u163	On that side? Which side? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u164	Don't you know which side is on? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u165	A little education didn't hurt!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u166	But which side? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u167	I answer: it was the side that was in the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u168	It was the side that ruled Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u169	... and that they have not done what they now ask to do! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u170	It was the side that ruled Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u171	When you talk like that, it's because you don't have any answers anymore. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] Mrs Joana Mortágua, I respect very much the plurality of this parliamentary majority, because I think this plurality is necessary for the country. The criticisms that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party or the Greens make to the government, or even the Socialist Party, are important criticisms to continue to work and that also force us to think. But we don't surrender! We do not surrender to interpretative ideologies that come from the PSD and CDS. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u172	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. It's over as long as he's at his disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u173	I shall finish, Madam President, with the tolerance that you have given everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u174	Including Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u175	Exactly, Madam President. Therefore, benefiting from this tolerance, I wanted to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u176	And to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u177	...that, to try to fight me, he's changing position on the bench, during my answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u178	It's for your own safety!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u179	You were shouting so loud!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u180	Mr. Deputy, don't answer. Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa noticed that I was playing with her, she didn't get angry, and you just pissed off. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I want to tell you that, very sincerely, I record with pleasure what I said in the Plenary in December 2015 about the rankings is now different, changed. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] He's changed! I went to read. He's changed! And that's good. There's a conversation on the way, there's a conversation on the way, and that's good. But we still need to say the following: last Saturday, the honourable Member repeated, in an article, an expression that has already been used here once. It is an interesting expression, more or less like this: The strange case of the thermometer that does not heal. This expression, which was the title of your article, is interesting, but I want to tell you that the problem is not that, the problem is that rankings are not all the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u181	Mr President, you have practically doubled your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u182	I'm done now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u183	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u184	Do not measure distances with the thermometer, do not measure the weight with the thermometer. So the problem is that you are perhaps applying the thermometer to wrong realities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u185	The political declaration of the Socialist Party is thus concluded. We shall continue with the political declaration of the Left Block and, to this end, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democratization in access to higher education, repeatedly praised by rulers and officials of higher education institutions, is an essential tool for the qualifications of Portuguese, especially younger generations. This process was accompanied by an appeal for the qualification of the population. Paradoxically, reality was denying the discourse, with the implementation of a system that systematically disrespects those and those who chose a course in the area of research. The increase in the number of researchers in the National Scientific and Technological System has become a highly qualified precarious labour factory, permanently in scholarships and without any stability or future. Precautionaryness in research, contrary to what the theorists of the minimal state defend, does not drive creativity. It is precisely the opposite: the instability of the bond restricts scientific freedom, makes science captured by blackmailing dismissal, prevents continuity and subject to science to short- and medium-term financing criteria. in its objective condition, the pocketman does not have the possibility to risk, experiment or err. And error and its overcoming are fundamental in scientific production. The transformation of these exchanges into contracts is therefore the door that is still to be opened and which will enable investment in scientific production that is not only dependent on immediate success and short-term financing. It is an essential path to the ability to do science, applied science, of course, but also fundamental science. The key is in the hands of political leaders and they need to use it! First of all, it is in the hands of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education and the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ) who have to abandon the position of spectators and assume their responsibility as decision-makers. Secondly, it is in the hands of universities and politicians, who are responsible for the immediate implementation of the procurement instruments already available. It is not acceptable for them to continue to protect the end of precariousness in research. Let us look, for example, at the application of the diploma of scientific employment: since it came into force, of the thousands of post-doctoral scholarships covered, only 51 saw their scholarships converted into employment contracts on 31 January. This number, far below expected, is in part a reflection of a bad example that part of the FCT direction, which has not yet regulated its own precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u187	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u188	The legitimacy to assist in the action of government bodies depends, firstly, on the fulfilment of its role. The FCT has to set an example. That is the requirement of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But the government can and should do more with the institutions, it is not enough to expect it to happen. How many more contracts will be submitted? What are the deadlines for this effect? What's the reason for so much delay? Action must be taken to combat precariousness in research and ensure full application of the diploma of scientific employment. But we can go further, in addition to the warnings. The Left Block has presented two diplomas which are surgically altering two laws and which will be fundamental in this sector. The first includes, in the evaluation parameters of the institutions, the quality of the contract, valuing the fight against precariousness. The second defines more strictly the figure of « stable teaching body », proposing a clear paradigm change and the end of the abuse of figures such as the « invited teacher », which in fact is « stick for all the work ». With the approval of these diplomas, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have two valuable instruments in combating precariousness in the sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 10 years have passed since the publication of the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions ( RJIES). The political choices that were then made forced negative changes, calling into question the idea of academia as an institution of knowledge and critical spirit. This is why it is necessary to review the RJIES. Democratizing higher education and science is not only due to the increase in the number of students and researchers. It's not enough to look at the numbers. These numbers are people, people of truth, of flesh and bone, who embrace the entire mission of expanding knowledge, basis for social development and guarantee of the various freedoms, fundamental vectors for the existence of modern and robust democracy. It is necessary to democratize the academy, review the financing model, value the teaching careers of higher education and research and break with the foundational model. After the presentation of the OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) on higher education, chosen as a timely time by the Socialist Party to relaunch the discussion, the Block will not miss that call. The year 2018 must be the year of the recovery of higher education and science as fundamental public services that deserve to be treated as such — no more, no less. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u189	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, four Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Luís Monteiro, I ask how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u190	I will answer in groups of two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u191	Therefore, to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u192	Mr President, Mr. Luís Monteiro, the honourable Member spoke of the decree-law on scientific employment which, to say, has been born wrong and is never directed again. This Decree-Law was then appreciated here and was even introduced by the PS Parliamentary Group itself in the transitional standard a first date for the opening of the competition until 31 December 2017. What happened? It happened that the opening of the contest was posted online on 21 December, but the applications only opened this year on 19 January. In other words, in order to simplify, the Decree-Law was simply not fulfilled, and it was not because of the inability of the Government. That is why Mr Deputy asked the following question: will it be reasonable for the same Government not to fulfil its financial responsibilities in time with the institutions of higher education, which does not honour its word in the legislature contracts, now confers on them all responsibilities for failing to comply with Decree-Law No 57 / 2016? Is it reasonable for the same government that does not fully implement the FCT budget, which is the entity that finances these tenders, to say now that it does not have the conditions to open the tenders? Is it reasonable to say that this Government is not bound by this Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 and that, therefore, it has no responsibility for its compliance? Now, Mr President, you have raised a series of questions from the gallery about dates and associated numbers, and I, while I listened to you, thought it might be relevant to ask a Member of Parliament who was in the government solution and who knew what was going to be done and — see! - I remembered you! The honourable Member, after all, makes this government viable, voted in favour of the amendment to this Decree-Law and cannot now get out of the way! Therefore, all the questions you have asked here I will return them to you, in the hope that you will answer them. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u193	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u194	Madam President, Mr Luís Monteiro, I would like to begin by welcoming you on the subject you have brought here today. In fact, the fight against precariousness in higher education and science must be a priority taken by all of us and what has happened with the successive delays in regularizing the situation of pockets covered by the transitional standard must have an urgent outcome. We follow the concern of the Left Block on this matter and we argue that this situation has in fact to have a solution soon and cannot continue to be dragged indefinitely, including by resorting to schemes to escape what is provided for in the law itself. Often, the institutions themselves, as in a case that has come to us from the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon, of their centers, are trying to push researchers, the fellows to move to an entity of a fundamental nature, private, rather than the hiring being made directly by the Faculty of Sciences and to become integrated through Law No 57 / 2017. Now, what we think is that the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education has to follow these situations and intervene. It has to enforce the law and to avoid precisely all types of schemes that do not go in the initial direction of what has been discussed, particularly with the amendments that have been adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. I would also like to say, Mr President, that we accompany the concern about the need for a wider discussion on other matters which have also been mentioned. With regard to the RJIES, we have already brought this discussion to the Assembly of the Republic. at the time, the Socialist Party considered that it was necessary to wait for the OECD report, so we are now in a position to move forward again for this discussion. We believe that steps must be taken towards the end of the foundational regime, in defense of the democratic management of higher education institutions. We will certainly be available for this discussion. Another question that is also raised — and that is the question I want to leave to you — is that there are two other cases which urgently need to open and discuss. The CFP announced yesterday, during its parliamentary days, that it will deliver two legislative initiatives. We want to know the availability of the Left Block to follow them — the challenge we have left to the other parliamentary benches — one on the need to amend the law on higher education financing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u195	And to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u196	... and the other, to conclude, Madam President, on the need for the revision of the school social action law in order to strengthen support and its scope. We want to know whether the Left Block accompanies the PCP on these two initiatives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u197	To reply, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs Mesquita for their questions. I shall begin by replying to Mrs Ana Mesquita, saying that there is total openness on the part of the Left Block to discuss all these cases, as it is already known by the positions we have taken. This is obvious, even because the Block Left itself repeatedly asked questions and expressed concern about a set of contracts that were being made under Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, but that were actually not complying with Law No 57 / 2017. That is precisely why the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education has a fundamental role to play in promoting the diploma, but also in monitoring to ensure that all institutions comply with the Decree-Law and do not run, with more or less manoeuvres, to comply with the fight against precariousness. That is why the revision of the RJIES places a centrality in all this speech. It is necessary to ensure that higher education institutions are not only assumed by the Assembly of the Republic, but by the Government and society itself, as almost a parallel State which does not need to comply with the laws that are produced here and which are even decisions of the Government. That is why a thorough review of the RJIES puts a new model of more democratic management on the table. In relation to the question referred to in the financing model, the Left Block itself has already had an opportunity to discuss, in particular, the relevance or not of the existence of propines. Therefore, these are matters in which the Left Block accompanies the concerns of the CFP and on which it has come to present a set of legislative initiatives precisely in this regard. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I am amazed that you will return the questions. It appears that it was not in the discussion of the amendment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, nor does it understand the functioning of its application. We criticise the government and the FCT for the absence and delay in the regulation of this same diploma. From the moment this regulation is known, it is published on the Foundation for Science and Technology website, it is necessary to hold higher education institutions accountable. We already know that on its part and on the part of the CDS we cannot count on this work and therefore Mrs Ana Rita Bessa "washs her hands" there. with regard to the responsibility of higher education institutions on this matter, we already realize that we cannot count on Mrs Deputy. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] from the Left Block, institutions and government can count on our position at all times. We have been changing a law that we thought was wrong to build, to demand greater speed at the exit of this regulation and, when all these tools are ready for the institutions to use, it is necessary to hold them accountable. We're not in the middle of the road, unlike the CDS! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u199	We will continue with requests for clarification. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u200	Mr President, Mr Luís Monteiro brings here once again an important issue that we have been debating over the past few years. Mr President, I would like to make two or three points before asking you a question. We ourselves in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are also aware of the difficulties that the process of promoting scientific employment has faced, but we do not want to confuse things. There are institutions that, in fact, even make public campaigns promising to disregard democratic legality, but there are other institutions that are doing their work. It would be desirable if there were more institutions with open competitions, but still a few tens are already doing so. So this is contrasted. Anyway, there's a look that focused that I didn't want to make it clear. Sometimes we hesitate to make the choices we have to make, sometimes we do not choose the best path soon, but this is different from having a bad intention with regard to the regulation of the law on scientific employment. The Assembly itself periodically exercises an analysis of the progress of the regulation of laws, and this exercise gave the law of scientific employment as a law that did not lack regulation. There were neither Members nor any parliamentary groups who had called into question this assessment, and the Government, at first, also felt that it did not lack regulation and only decided to move forward to the regulation when it saw that the institutions were shrinking. Perhaps it was wrong to believe that the institutions would take a step at the right time, but it was not out of will or unwilling to comply, perhaps out of naivety in assessing the disposition of some institutions. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u201	It considers the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that there is a strategic aspect to move forward in the future, in time, for a permanent solution and that it has to do with a new framework for the relationship between teaching and research. We believe that the link between teaching, higher education institutions, and research is not in the most appropriate model to consolidate institutions and dignify scientific employment — we have said this several times. What I would like to ask you, Mr President, is whether the Left Block is open to discussion in order to move forward in this direction, which, in our view, would be an important release to give us a structural and future answer to many of the issues that are now on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u202	For a final request for clarification, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u203	Madam President, it is important that the Left Block has once again brought this issue to Parliament. This is an area in which it is increasingly perceived, despite some hesitations, that the Left Block — and also the PCP — is no longer with the Government or this Minister of Higher Education and Science. in this respect, as in other matters the government has a narrative, which is consensual, which is well, but then, in addition to this cartridge, reality is quite different. The reality has nothing to do with the Socialist Party's paper on science.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u205	The Minister of Science was unveiled in the Assembly of the Republic with the amendments we made to the law on scientific employment. On the other hand, Parliament has agreed to give reality to what was only the government's narrative and that now, after all, it does not want to comply. It starts by setting a bad example when the FCT itself, the government agency responsible for this area, does not open competitions for its own pockets, when the government has come to demand, and also the PS, that higher education institutions open these competitions. This is the bad example of the government, this is the bad example of the FCT. There is another matter that I think is important. How can we require higher education institutions to open up scholarship competitions, to integrate frameworks and teachers, when the government itself and the FCT have EUR 55 million reserved for this matter and do not contract with the institutions this value so that they can use it? In other words, those who end up opening these contests may be taking a legal breach that may be harmful to them. We do not understand why the government and the FCT do not contract with the institutions the money that is available, that exists and that the law provides. But what we have not been able to see is how the government, the FCT and the Socialist Party can look at this, in which they are contests to finish, there are pockets with their bags to finish, especially the large FCT pockets, and there is no alternative in the public market to be able to compete and continue their careers. This has been dragging for months and, with the delay in scientific employment, it will be dragging for much longer, with no alternative on the part of the government in this matter. Having heard Mr Porfirio Silva, he would like to ask which side is the Left Block. The Left Block is still on the government's side, trying to mask this, or, as it often does, comes here to point the finger and demand the FCT to give the example, to hire the pockets there and to make contracts with the institutions to fund what the law of scientific employment provides? The PS Member spoke here a lot about « sides», but he would like to ask the Socialist Party which side he is on. We know which side we are on, but everyone knows that the side of the Socialist Party, which is isolated in this Parliament, is the side of bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u206	Ask when I can answer it, I will answer it! You just like to ask when I can't answer you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u207	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u208	Madam President, I would once again like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Porfirio Silva and Mr Duarte Filipe Marques. I shall begin by replying to Mr Porfirio Silva. It is true that it was not initially assumed that the issue of regulation would be strictly necessary, but it is also true that the Government cannot continue to maintain a logic of trust or distrust in higher education institutions, not looking at the objectivity of the law. That is precisely why the challenge I launched in the political declaration I gave is precisely what concerns the revision of the REGIES. The Government cannot continue to blame or excuse greater or lesser successes in the area of higher education and science with the autonomy of higher education institutions or with the lack of ability to interact directly or indirectly with them. Therefore, in order to ensure that the Government no longer has doubts about the capacity to implement its own legislation, it must make a revision of the REGIES and not create parallel states within the State. That is the debate we wanted to launch here. On the question of the relationship between teaching and research, I mean that the Left Block has never closed any doors to any debate. But here is a fundamental question: we did not start building the house on the roof. It is not worth opening a discussion on the relationship between teaching and research when it is the institutions of higher education that virtually do not open competitions, neither for teaching nor for research. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary today, but first of all, to ensure that we value the teaching careers of polytechnic higher education and higher education; to ensure that the career of scientific research is not only halfway, but that these doctoral scholarships and scholarships under the FCT research programme are also included in this career. It's not a privilege, it's a right that helps them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u210	Mr Duarte Marques spoke a lot about « sides ». The side of the Left Block is known: we have always been in defense of higher education and public science, in defense of more public investment and, precisely for that reason, we have criticized several governments, at various times, for the successive cuts that the sector has suffered. We can discuss the various'sides' of the Assembly of the Republic and where the Left Block is located, but it would be important to listen to the PSD and to see where it is placed in a review of the REGIES, in particular to end the foundational model and to create more democratic management in higher education institutions. As for this we have not heard any words, neither the CDS nor the PSD nor the Socialist Party. Let us hope, indeed, that there will be an in-depth debate on this subject and that it will not be hidden again in further studies. And since the OECD has now come to present a set of conclusions, let us use this to do this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u211	Answer, answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u212	That concludes this agenda item for political declarations. Before we proceed with the next and last item on our agenda, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Bill No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 165, 2016 / 1034 and 2017 / 593, which goes down to 5. the Commission and the following draft laws: No 759 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — recovers for the public domain the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the provision of the universal telecommunications service ( second amendment to the Telecommunications Bases Act, Law No 91 / 97 of 1 August ) ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 760 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the consumer information duty of the energy marketer ( PS ) ; No 761 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 10 / 2017 of 3 March ( Law on the Programming of Infrastructure and Equipment of the Forces and Security Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 764 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — The aim is to reformulate the principles of the career of municipal veterinarian ( NAP) ; No 765 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — makes the environmental impact of fuels more transparent by means of more detailed information to consumers ( PAN ) ; paragraph 766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation of competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific training ( CFP ) with use ; point 767 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets out the general principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ) ( PCP ) ; No 768 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the National Sound Archive ( PCP ) ; No 769 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the access of the Assembly of the Republic to documents and information classified as a State secret under the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 770 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Revises the revision of the legal regime for urban leases, approved by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 771 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Amendment to the Housing-supported Lease Scheme ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and points 772 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July, with respect to the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support, as well as the requirement to review the law within a year ( CDS-PP ). The following draft resolutions were presented: No 1291 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the report on the multi-annual strategy for requalification and modernization of the prison system in September 2017 in plenary of the Assembly and submit a proposal for an investment programming law in the prison park ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 1296 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update 5 % of the fees of forensic professionals for the services provided under legal protection ( NAP ) ; No 1297 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the system of nutritional traffic lights and carcinogenic traffic lights in the mandatory nutritional declaration contained in the food packaged ( PAN) ; paragraph 1298 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national campaign for promoting and valuing the Mediterranean diet ( PCP ) ; point 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of environmental education in the curricula of basic and secondary education ( BE) ; 1300 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recruitment of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( CFP ) ; No 1301 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures to resolve the situation of non-compliance of residents in the social neighbourhoods owned by the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1302 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the creation and installation of a national sound archive ( BE); No 1303 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the exemption from payment of moderate rates, drug sharing and non-emergency transport support for patients with sclerodermia ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1304 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the public management of the North Rehabilitation Centre and the review of the current agreement with the Hospital da Prelada ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1305 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen supervision of elderly households to ensure the dignity of users ( The Greens ) ; No 1306 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures leading to the creation of the National Sound Archive ( PS ) ; No 1307 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Preservation of the Argemella greenhouse ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1308 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote right aging ( CFP ) ; No 1309 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and promote sound heritage through the creation of a national sound archive ( The Greens ) ; No 1310 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On the labelling of food(The Greens ) ; No 1311 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection of sound documents that are part of Portuguese cultural heritage by creating a national sound archive ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1312 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a general competition for teachers in 2018 and the modification of the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary teaching staff ( CFP ) ; point 1313/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote increased coverage of special insurance for chestnuts ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; and paragraphs 1314 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the necessary steps to protect and preserve Argemel's greenhouse, involving local populations and authorities ( CDS-PP ), down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the second item on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 376 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the rectification of the internal mobility lists and initial hiring of 2017 / 18, disclosed by the Ministry of Education ( Leigia Reis Oliveira Violas et al.) together with draft resolution No 1312 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a general competition for teachers in 2018 and the modification of the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary teaching staff ( CFP ). To present draft resolution No 1312 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the CFP, and starting the debate, has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers of petition No 376 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), present in the galleries. It's been a long journey and a long way. We have met and have often crossed, here in the Assembly of the Republic, to discuss this matter, which we now, once again, address and that it has to do with precisely the lists of internal mobility of 2017 / 18, published on 25 August. In fact, these teachers expressed quite clearly their dissatisfaction with what was a change in the procedures that were adopted. What the CFP has stressed is that transparency and predictability of procedures are fundamental to the stability of the personal and professional life of teachers in public school. Now, what happened was a decision, which we consider arbitrary, of the Ministry of Education, which, without any prior notice and even altering the practice of many years, chose not to consider thousands of hours requested by schools in initial placement in internal mobility. Then, the disorders that this caused were known, with teachers being sent to schools far away from those where they were, with major complications to their personal life that cannot be minimized here. And what we believe is that action must be taken to ensure that this situation does not repeat itself in the future and that measures must also be found that can in any way help these teachers to see their situation changed. In fact, what has been put on the table by the government is the possibility to open competition in 2018 only for teachers who consider themselves dissatisfied with the placement that has now been obtained. Now, with this, the government recognises that there is a problem. however, in our view, it does not resolve this because it will not be allowed to reorganise the positions globally and strictly respecting an issue which, for us, is essential and which is respect for the criterion of professional graduation. Therefore, the internal competition, even if it is in advance, must be carried out internal mobility covering all teachers. So what we think is that action needs to be taken. If, on the one hand, what the petitioners claim about the possibility of annulment of the final lists of the initial contract and internal mobility invitation to tender, which were released on 25 August, will be difficult to achieve at this time in the light of the course of the academic year, the other claim they put here, in relation to the existence of a serious commitment to the full clarification of the competition and placement rules of teachers in order to prevent similar situations, it seems to us that a claim is not only fair but perfectly enforceable. It is also in this sense that the CFP presents its draft resolution, and we have already presented a proposal for a comprehensive review of the competition regime, which is being discussed in the field of expertise. We believe, however, that this is also another opportunity to take the necessary steps to change the selection, recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary education staff in 2018. We still propose that an external competition be held in 2018, intended to fill the hours left vacant in the 2017 competition, others that have emerged because of the needs meanwhile expressed by schools and groups and also the performance of an in-house competition in advance, respecting the general rules of the competitions. These are the proposals of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u216	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet all the teachers who have been in the dramatic situation of being forced to leave the places where they have been for years and have to use the rent of homes hundreds of miles away and have to solve a very complicated situation with their children with whom they live, this whole situation is unjustifiable. It is unjustifiable, because indeed the government's decision to amend a competition in the middle of the game and without any prior notice is not, at all, assumed as a democratic and transparent management. That is why, from the very first moment, from the Left Block, we have been fully supportive of the struggle of these teachers and their demands, which are more than just. And these demands, in addition to the concrete situation, also raise other relevant questions to us, in particular on the whole bureaucracy in which the system of teacher competitions for public school is today, and this is an example of the many who have come to give shape to an idea of reviewing the whole logic of the functioning of these competitions. That is why, today, we have the opportunity to discuss this petition, signed by thousands of petitioners, citizens and citizens, and also to ask the Government once again and to ask what really is the solution the government wants to find for these teachers. He did not find it in due time, which he should have done, correcting immediately the anomalies which he himself created, he did not solve this situation with a subsequent contest, which could have been done, although already over the new school year, but with the possibility not to put hundreds of teachers in a dramatic situation. And there is also no proper solution to the problem, even for the next school year. The Left Block has already been able to present in the Assembly a draft resolution that guarantees much of the solution of these problems and opens up to the door to a discussion on the competition system. This draft resolution did not find a majority in this Assembly of the Republic. We regret that, but we will not give up fighting not only for the fair demands of these teachers but also for a fairer, more democratic and more balanced system in these contests. The teachers deserve him and the public school needs them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u218	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating petition No 376 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1312 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), of the Portuguese Communist Party, which affect matters of selection and recruitment of teaching staff. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises, as we all recognize, that the subject matter in question requires a broad debate, involving all participants in the education system, from the protection of professional organizations, parents and education officers, students, local authorities and educational community. We believe that this debate will have to be held sooner than later. It is for all of us consensual that the stability of schools stems, to a large extent, from the stability of their teaching bodies. We also know that, in order to promote this stability, it converges not only the creation of preventive measures but also the materialization of initiatives that potentiate and maximize equity in the system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject currently under discussion, it should be said that the procedures for recruiting teaching staff for the school year 2017 / 2018 have respected the conforming legislation. In fact, the change in the priorities of the internal competition, combined with the real clearance of vacancies of groups of schools and ungrouped schools, aims to enable teachers to approach residence, in a permanent and fair manner, promoting their professional stability and promoting the dignity of their career. In this regard, it refers to the opening of a competitive procedure for the next academic year, which is public knowledge. It should also be noted that the reversal of the consideration of only hours in internal mobility would lead to significant waste of human resources and that the intention to carry out competitive procedures annually, leaving the quadrennial rule, would cause greater instability in the teaching body, with negative consequences at the level of so desirable and necessary pedagogical continuity. by the above, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the recommendations presented by the Portuguese Communist Party are extemporaneous, both from a technical and political point of view. In fact, some have already been enshrined in the State budget for 2018 and others are matters negotiated with trade union structures, and they have also motivated a legislative amendment, implemented in Decree-Law No 28 / 2017 of 15 March 2017. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been with enormous sense of responsibility, determination in the valorization of teachers and in the implementation of its programme that the 21st Government has implemented several and important measures, some extraordinary ones, which are allowing human resources to be strengthened, a significant decrease in teacher precariousness and a better public school. The way is being made. It is a path that goes in order to solve situations of injustice that, we recognize, still prevail. It is a demanding path, I say even difficult, in view of the complexity of the procedures for selecting and recruiting teaching staff. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u220	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the signatories of the petition brought today the debate and, in particular, those in the galleries. This is the competitive internal mobility procedure for teachers, whose lists were known on 25 August 2017. Since then, this is a matter which the PSD has been closely monitoring, trying to get an urgent solution to the problem with the government, but, unfortunately, to date, without any answer, which shows a clear lack of respect for teachers, The Ministry of Education, which, in the first stage, denied the error, then having to admit it, has never been able to move forward with an effective, just and timely solution that minimizes the inhuman consequences caused by this injustice, saving itself only in a rational management of human resources. The opinion of the Ombudsman on this matter is very clear, says that the principles of justice and good faith require that candidates be informed of all the competition rules, which actually did not happen in this case, because if teachers knew before the exclusion of incomplete schedules, surely their choices would have been different. The rules used in these procedures cannot be changed since 2006, without giving full and prior knowledge to those concerned in this case to teachers. And this Ministry had the opportunity to do so, but it did not, and could avoid the serious damage caused in the lives of each of these teachers and their families, as well as in the lives of the students, because many of these teachers, being medically low, affect schools and students, who even to the placement of another teacher are without classes, and this was what the Ministry had to avoid. But the Secretary of State preferred to announce an extraordinary competition for 2018, only for these situations, which demonstrates the recognition of the error, but does not solve the problem, and it is certain that if this contest comes forward and is not feasible for these teachers to compete, the Ministry will wash their hands from there, which is important now to denounce.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u223	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who governs, on a day, cannot proclaim by valuing the teaching class and the public school and, on the next day, by allowing situations of serious injustice, such as these, to take place. Once called to take on their mistakes and their responsibilities, they must take them and correct us with seriousness, effectiveness and transparency, thus avoiding irreparable harm to teachers, students, families and the educational community in general. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u224	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I welcome the 4011 subscribers of this petition in the person of Professor Lígia Violas. from their respective content, I withdraw what I quote: « The publication of the final lists of internal mobility, and initial hiring, disclosed by the Ministry of Education on 25 August have generated surprises, consternation and revolts ». The reason? I quote again the petitioners: « Teachers(...) presented themselves to the contest and expressed their preferences in the light of placement rules which, without any prior notice, were not applied and ended up being completely surprised by the results ». This petition, the insistent protests, the many judicial actions and other proceedings in the courts were undoubtedly caused by the unacceptable procedure adopted by this Government in the above-mentioned internal mobility competition. It is really inexplicable, unjustifiable, that the hours have not been considered incomplete for placement purposes, in fact, like what has always been happening from a few years to this part. This procedure was usual, for many consecutive years, created in the candidates the conviction, legitimate, that the placements in the contest to which we reported would be made in the same way. But, in this case, the Ministry of Education has decided only to place teachers in full hours. It is thus manifest that the legitimate expectations of the candidates are violated and that the principle of trust has resulted. It should be noted that there was no legislative amendment that could justify this action and that there was no prior notice of preference. Therefore, necessary and directly, teachers could not be placed in the schools of their choice and fulfill the design of the contest: the approach to each’s residence. It is undeniable that this procedure of the Ministry of Education has created situations that violate the principle of equality, justice, proportionality and good faith. Now, it appears, should not be forgotten, a pretense solution to the discriminatory situations generated by this mess. However, the preliminary draft decree-law, as it is known, defines that candidates for internal mobility will be candidates for career candidates who oppose the internal competition and those who do not intend to maintain the multi-annuality of the placement obtained in the last competition. Now, by granting teachers placed in the 2017 competition the ability to maintain the placement obtained, I fear that the vacancies will be kept-CL-completed, because they will not be taken to the competition. To confirm this definition of candidates for the internal competition — which, moreover, the Secretary of State supported in response to the request from the CDS — the solution presented will not resolve the vicissitudes of the tender that this petition contests. Its scope will be limited to the repetition and consolidation of the effects of that administrative decision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the questions on this subject are already numerous, repeatedly raised by this parliamentary group at the hearings and petitions to the Minister of Education. So far, no valid reason or deduced argument has been presented, contrary to this understanding, that nothing justifies the procedure adopted. from which, unfortunately, our statement remains relevant and current: the Ministry of Education and the Government continually cheats teachers, unreliable and untrustworthy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-07.u226	Since the Bureau no longer registers, it concludes the assessment of petition No 376 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1312 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Our next session will be tomorrow for 3 p.m. with the following agenda: point one, current debate, by PS marking, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on « More employment, better employment » ; point 2, discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1243 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Final recruitment of health professionals placed under the influenza contingency plan activated between 1 November 2017 and 31 March 2018 ( BE), 1246 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of an invitation to tender for the hiring of new specialists up to 30 days after the conclusion of the medical institution ( BE) and 1300 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( CFP ), together with in general draft law No 766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the obligation of competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific training ( PCP ) with use ; point three, overall assessment of the projects of lein.o 737 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increases the tax transparency of fuels through more detailed information to consumers ( CDS-PP ), 760 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the reporting duty of the marketer to the energy consumer ( PS ) and 765 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Make the environmental impact of fuels more transparent by means of more detailed information to consumers ( NAP ), together with draft resolution No 1290 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen information given to consumers in invoices relating to the marketing of fuels ( PSD ) ; point 4, general assessment of draft law No 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 237 / 2007 of 19 June implementing Directive 2002/15 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2007 on the organisation of working time of persons engaged in mobile road transport activities ( CFP ) ; and finally point five, joint discussion of draft resolutions 912 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by environmental education as a valued component of public school ( The Greens ), 1295 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the Eco-School Programme ( CDS-PP ) and 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of environmental education in the curricula of basic and secondary education ( BE ). I wish everyone else a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 59 minutes.]]
