ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries, please. We will enter the first item on today's agenda, which consists of the current debate required by the CDS-PP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the enhancement of the interior. While we wait for government representatives to arrive, Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is to announce the withdrawal of draft resolution No 1746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide all the financial means necessary for the urgent implementation of all the necessary works at the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa, Paredes, so that they are completed until the beginning of the new academic year ( CDS-PP ) at the request of the proposer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u3	Given this information and having already been present the members of the Government, which I also welcome, we will initiate this current debate. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The CDS presents today a set of initiatives to revitalize the interior in our country. For the first time, we presented the idea of creating a tax statute for the interior almost a year ago, in October last year more precisely. At that time we proposed that a committee should be set up for this purpose here in Parliament. The idea was, unfortunately, plummeted. Since then we have persisted, heard, studied and debated in order to densify our proposals. We cannot continue to waste time nor can we continue to pretend that the measures taken so far have been effective. [[PS protests.]] The problem we want to solve is clear, but it is all less simple: the growing gap of prosperity between the coast and the interior, with the worsening of inequalities. Portugal needs very different levels of economic and social cohesion from the present. There is a need for a set of specific measures to combat inequalities between the interior and the coast, a greater capacity for attracting and fixing people, as well as a growing investment. There is no miracle measure, but there are several measures that can be effective. in this package that we present, we propose measures for companies, measures for people and for investment. We propose measures to create opportunities for people, to set businesses and to attract investment. In measures aimed at people, we note that one of the main costs of interiority is transport. Therefore, we propose that all transport costs, from fuels, train tickets or tolls, may be deducted from the collection by taxpayers who reside inside. In addition to this specific measure, the CDS proposes that the table of IRS rates (tax on income of natural persons) provided for taxpayers with tax residence within the country apply rates whose value is half of those applicable to the generality of citizens. That is, in practice, a 50% lower IRS for the interior. We understand that this will be a way of helping to fix and attract citizens to a range of territories that has all the potential for quality of life that is currently underutilized. We understand that this measure may have to be planned gradually and phased, but it must be set at least as an objective to be achieved. Also for people, the CDS also provides for a review of the deductions to IRS collection for education and housing, as well as an increase in the exemption of IMI (municipal property tax) for urban buildings for own and permanent housing. Finally, we want to increase the variable participation of the IRS in the interior municipalities by up to 15% for full returns to the municipalities. With regard to measures for companies and, as such, measures to support the creation of jobs and opportunities, we propose, first, that 10 % be taxed for all companies wishing to pursue their activity in the interior. The current incentive given to companies, which is a tax of 12, 5 % on IRC ( corporate income tax ), works only for micro-enterprises with taxable income up to EUR 15 000. If what we want is, in fact, to create jobs, to create equal opportunities between those who live on the coast and those who live on the interior, we cannot remain for a measure that creates a potential saving of €56 per month for businesses. We have to go much further. We also propose the total and not only partial deduction of the profits that are reinvested. Finally, to attract investment, we want the Investment Contract Scheme or the Tax Benefits Contractual to Productive Investment to have lower admission thresholds when it comes to domestic investments. We also propose that SIFIDE (Fiscal Systems in Research and Enterprise Development) may have more favourable conditions when investments in the interior are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We present here today the general lines of a set of tax measures designed to revitalize the interior and, above all, to defend the equal opportunities of those who live there and to create it for those who wish to move there. We are not talking about creating benefits, we are talking about creating equal opportunities. We know that some of these measures may require a negotiation with the European Commission and that these negotiations take time. We also know that some measures may have to be phased in time and applied gradually. But that is exactly why we know we have to start now. The matter is complex, it is true, but it is also, above all, urgent and political choice. We also know that these measures have a financial cost, we do not hide it. Its adoption simultaneously and immediately can reach an effect of 0, 3 percentage points in the deficit. We are also aware that this same cost can be exceeded by multiplier effects of investment and wealth. But if we really want to change something inside, we can't stay for pious gestures or symbolic speeches. Everything is, in fact, a question of political choice. The CDS is clear and it is the one we are presenting today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u5	Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, in valuing the interior we must always be focused on people and territories, that is true. So the demographic issue is in the center. And this, which is an issue, as we know, European and national, of course, feels a lot more inside as many as we can announce, and we all know, what the studies indicate, that in the next 50 years, Portugal will lose 2 million inhabitants. And this inside will feel even more. It is therefore urgent to recover the accrued liabilities for years of indifference. If we take into account the governance of the last decade, in particular what happened in the period 2011 to 2015, the PSD and the CDS change more rapidly than climate change occurs in the interior territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposals and initiatives of the CDS, presented here today, are kind of an apology. The problem is that inside, you know what they did in the past government and the excuses are not asked, you avoid. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u7	The government has already accepted the challenge and put in place an integrated strategy for the enhancement of the interior,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u8	That's what it looks like!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u9	... with concrete measures and effective resources, but we know that it will not be possible in years to do what has not been done in decades. The PS speaks to those who live there, dialogues and learns with whom he knows and therefore made his parliamentary days in Beja and Évora, in the interior of the country. And because he well knows that agriculture is fundamental to the interior and to the fixing of people, he made the decision to increase in the Alentejo only by 50 000 ha the irrigation of the Alqueva. The government has opened applications for tourism projects in low-density areas, with a package of 25 million. Therefore, a process of decentralization is under way, because it is with those who live there who make the decisions that are needed. Now, the CDS comes, after the Movement for the Interior to present its 24 proposals, to speak in the occupation of the territory. Question : Who did the CDS talk to? Did you talk to the municipalities? Did you talk to the representative associations? The CDS proposes — and I also ask about this — the application of the reduction in the rate of IRS. Is it for all the stairs? Is it just for some? That is why I tell you, Mrs Deputy, the CDS and its proposals are on the inside as summer is for this year: it is days, and late. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u10	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions and even use your words in my answer. The honourable Member said that the apologies were not to be apologized, they were to be avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u12	Well, good advice!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u13	Mr. Deputies, I think you were wrong. Perhaps you want to say this to the government bench because, of course, several PS ministers, who were already there in the PS government that led Portugal to bankruptcy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u14	Now! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u15	... may-CL-they will now remember that the excuses are not asked, avoid! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's just to avoid... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Mr President, I am very elegant because I think the other kind of examples I could use are too serious and too serious to be able to talk about them here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u17	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u18	But, Mr President, I find an excellent idea which, at the next meeting of the PS Parliamentary Board, proposes a meeting with the Government, precisely so that they will not have, in a few years' time, avoided the excuses, which they have never asked the country for, because they have led to the state to which they have led.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u19	Well, well! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u20	They never asked! They never asked! [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen never apologized. The gentlemen. Members never remembered apologizing to the country for what the government of the former Prime Minister Socrates did, but it was very nice of you. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] It was really good for you! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, Mr President, he also says: 'The CDS is now coming'. The CDS is not coming now, the CDS has been here a year ago. And he asks: "And the CDS heard who? The CDS proposed that a committee should be made here in Parliament, precisely to listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u21	And we've heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u22	To listen to municipalities, to listen to parishioners, to hear specialists, to hear the various parties. Well, you know what you did? [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Do you know what you've done? It was that measure. And do you know why you led her? Because he just doesn't want to hear. He wants to come here to debate, pretend that something is being done and that the problems continue to drag on. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] But, Mr President, do you know what I have not heard in your request for clarification? These are the measures that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u24	That's what I brought here, what was discussed and what's being applied. It is that, if you think that the interior is very good, that everything is already done and that there is no longer any need to do anything else, the CDS disagrees. And when he disagrees, he doesn't just do it with speeches, he disagrees with proposals. And that's why we're here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u25	Mr Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u26	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The intervention and the tax proposals that the CDS presents to us today should be an important part of the appreciation of the interior. From the outset, the Government has defined territorial cohesion in its programme as a priority for government action and has therefore approved, and maintains, a national territorial cohesion programme. An essential part of the strategy of appreciation of the interior must be the attraction of investment which creates employment and enables people to fix and attract. That is why, in terms of attractiveness of employment, the Government has directed, positively discriminated and has created specific programmes within the framework of private investment incentive systems which have allowed 1840 million euros of private investment to be attracted to the interior territories in these two years. This is why a specific foreign direct investment capture programme has already enabled by the first quarter of this year to raise EUR 340 million from foreign direct investment to the interior. This effort has to be intensified, because this is, today, a cause that obviously brings together all Portuguese. It is therefore necessary to apply all the resources that we can find in public policy to promote this movement. The demographic theme is important. The population of the interior has stabilized in the last decade, but at the expense of a large ageing population. It is necessary to attract the population, and it is necessary to compensate with positive migration balances. The tax proposals that the CDS now proposes can and should be considered, but I would also like to recall that many of them have already been in force in our legal system. Article 43. that of the Tax Benefit Statute, which originated in a State Budget Act for 2007, provided precisely with rates of IRC to 15 % reduced to 10 % for the establishment of new companies, the full deduction of profits for the financial year, the exemption of IMI in the establishment of population and the extended reintegration and depreciation of investment deductions. This Article 43. the, which had time of execution could have been a powerful weapon in attracting investment to the interior, was revoked with the State Budget for 2012. And this Article 43. the, when repealed, did not only deprive companies within these reduced IRC rates for seven years, as, above all, it makes it more difficult for us to recover a favorable tax framework. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The regulation which currently regulates State aid for the operation of undertakings in low-density territories is more demanding than it previously did. Therefore, the work we are doing with the European Commission, in order to enshrine the proposal which Mr Prime Minister has already announced on 18 May this year, to reduce the IRC rate, possibly to a zero collection based on job creation, is now more difficult and more demanding than the one that existed. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, we will be studying the proposals and certainly working because the tax component must be an important component of the policy of attracting investment to create jobs and set up the population, but I must also remember that it has already been in force in Portugal and has been repealed in the meantime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u27	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It presents the CDS for current debate the theme of appreciation of the interior. Is the CDS in trouble with consciousness? Is it no longer an attempt to hide, to excuse the responsibilities you had in the past when it was government? Government which, with its policies of national disaster at the service of the troika, has aggravated the social, economic and territorial inequalities of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u29	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u30	And it was the interior that suffered the most, it was its populations that became poorer and saw their living conditions worsened. It should be remembered that, with the support and the satisfaction of the CDS, public services were closed inside, from schools, post offices, health extensions, railway lines, tolls were imposed in the ancient SCUTs and hundreds of fregueries were extinguished. Two more days ago we were here discussing territorial inequalities. And what did the CDS do? Nor was it opposed to the creation of the so-called Independent Commission for Decentralisation, which will be born within a central block of interests negotiated between PS, PSD and Government,... [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Jorge Oliveira and the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]] ... Commission which will bring taxpayers about half a million euros and which, instead of fighting for the enhancement and development of the interior, will only contribute to more interiority and to more human and territorial desertification, exacerbating inequalities and asymmetries. This spurious creation will only serve to legitimise the postponement of regionalization to the calendars, i.e. the definitive death of this important figure in the context of decentralization. Only with regionalisation will we have serious decentralization. unlike previous governments, this government should have as priorities territorial cohesion in its agenda, public investment aimed at the interior, in order to combat regional inequalities and asymmetries, as well as regionalization, conferring democratic capacity for participation and decision-making of populations. Only in this way would it be possible to combat effectively the continuing centralism in the country, the most serious in Europe, by investing in the cycle of depopulation and impoverishment of two thirds of Portuguese territory where about three million people live. Internal depopulation is one of the causes of increasing rural fires, which have caused so many tragedies. In addition to the replacement of extinct parishes, one of the central aspects for the development and enhancement of the interior is based on good mobility. Mobility is a social right which the State must provide in the best conditions not only for the urban populations but also for the inhabitants of the interior. But what has the previous government done and the current government has not yet resolved? Mobility has returned, worsened, making life difficult for people and businesses. Tolls in the former SCUTS and de-investment in the railway are not in any way contributing, on the contrary, to ensure that this social right is guaranteed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u31	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD welcomes this initiative of the CDS to call for a debate on the appreciation of the interior, within which, now, after the death of more than 100 Portuguese in the fires, everyone swears eternal love. And these love oaths, as we have heard today, are always accompanied by the passing of custom. If the interior of the country is what it is because the whole political system, in the democratic period, has failed it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u33	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u34	It is therefore surprising that the Socialist Party's narrative, still now heard, is that it is innocent in this matter. There's intellectual honesty! In the last 25 years, the Socialist Party has ruled for 16 years,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u35	...almost two thirds of that quarter of a century.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u36	And go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u37	So the whole political system is just them and the gentlemen? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u38	The governments of the Socialist Party have closed dozens of permanent care services in health centres and maternity centres and thousands of primary schools, currently closing dozens of public bank agencies and post offices and — stop! — this week they close up to dozens of beds in several hospitals in the interior of the country, such as the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, where the Hospital de Lamego is integrated. The Socialist Party is not innocent. But the past is the part of the debate that is less interested in those who live in the interior, which is interesting to know what is being done today, and in this regard we all have absolute certainty: with what this government has been doing, this is not going there! The only thing the Government has to present to us is the creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior and the National Plan for Territorial Cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mission Unit is a fraternal void and the Cohesion Plan has no visible effect, it has no credibility. The gentlemen. did you know that, of the 127 measures referred to in this Plan as having already been implemented, already completed, are pearls such as the measure 'Tax incentives within IRC'? You're saying it's over. But is there any company that has settled inside with the current tax incentives at the head of IRC? As regards the measure ‘Reduction of tolls’, it is said that it is already being implemented. But does the government really believe that there is nothing else to do in this area? As regards the ‘Foreign Investment Attraction’ measure, it is said that it is completed, that it is all done. But does the government really believe that everything is done in this area? It is not worth continuing with the examples, because this plan, the great flag of the Government for the interior, has no effect or credibility. Nothing essential will change in the interior without strong measures, measures even radical measures that attack on various fronts, fronts such as tax discrimination, such as the deconcentration of the Public Administration or as the bet on a truly polycentric urban system, based on medium cities and city halls.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u39	How did this man remember this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u40	The fiscal proposals presented today are part of this principle and are a good contribution to the debate. They should be seen in conjunction with the excellent measures proposed by the Movement for the Interior, should be seen in conjunction with the proposals that the PSD, through the National Strategic Council, will present in due course and also with the ideas that the Socialist Party will certainly have. So there will soon be a very wide range of strong, radical, essential measures to change the state to which the interior of the country has arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u41	The boyfriend started!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u42	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the difficulty, that is not the point. The point is not to know what to do inside, the point is how to do. This is the difficulty, because implementing these strong, radical measures is a herculous task that no government can accomplish alone. It is only possible to achieve what is already known to be done by the interior if there is a very broad understanding in Parliament, involving at least the two largest Portuguese parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u43	The boyfriend started!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u44	It's only possible with a pact around the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u45	The orange deal?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u46	Knowing whether there is availability for an internal pact is therefore the question that is put to us all in this House. from the PSD side, as we have now demonstrated by enabling the decentralization package for local authorities, there is total availability for this pact through the interior, because the PSD always puts Portugal's interest first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u47	For a speech by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, Mrs Heloísa. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this was not so serious, it could give the desire to laugh, particularly the latter part of the PSD, where it made an appeal, almost in terms of charity, to the PS to continue making agreements with the PSD and, this time, one more issue was remembered: territorial cohesion. The DOS Green alert goes here to the Socialist Party, so that you leave this wave of agreement with the PSD because that doesn't work. And in this matter, then, it won't really work. Mr. PSD said: "The least interests the people in the interior is to talk about the past." Wrong! It is very important to talk about the past first, because not everyone has responsibility and, in particular, if we have come to the point where we have regional asymmetries in the country, this is due to the alternate governments of the PS and PSD, who have dug this interiority, and that responsibility is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u49	With the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u50	Yes, it's true, too often with the CDS accompanying.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u52	It is therefore important to have that responsibility. Why? Because it was necessary to distrust those who had this responsibility and always opened talks with the fight against regional asymmetries, but when it came to making practical decisions and concrete measures, they only dug more interiority. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] It is time to reverse this logic and that is also the appeal the Greens make. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the agreements are here with us, which we have good proposals, such as the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs well must know. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to take into account the responsibilities of the former Government, because they were also absolutely profound in this matter. You have now come to present some proposals having done everything contrary when you were able to govern, especially in recent times: they have closed public services within the country, have liquidated transport within the country—I can recall the question of the Tua Line, the question of the East Line, only to stay for rail transport, in these simple examples, but many others that could be given — have liquidated the productive activity within the country and, therefore, the ability to generate employment, strangulate micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and have ended with fiscal incentives for the installation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises within the country. [[PSD protests.]] So what are you doing? They Brad to the heavens saying, "The inside is emptying out! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yes, of course, with such policies, how could you not empty out? Oh, my God! How is it possible for young couples, or young couples in general, to make the option of living and working within the country if they are not offered opportunities and if they do not have close public services? How is that possible? So the recipes everyone knows. Mr. Minister, investment is needed within the country. It is necessary to strengthen public services within the country, in addition to what Mr Minister underlined and which has to do with the question of attractive employment. Better transport is needed in the country, it is necessary to make this investment. In the short term, we, The Greens, will present a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic, which we believe may also have a very significant impact within the country and which has to do with the enhancement of ecotourism at national level. And the interior has so much opportunity to offer at that level! It is clear that very specific support is also needed for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to carry out their activity within the country. Now there is an issue which cannot fail in this discussion and which is related to regionalization, to which the PSD, PS and CDS want to « flee as the devil of the cross ». But it can't be, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to think about the strategy, planning for territorial cohesion and the fight against regional asymmetries, we need, like bread for the mouth, this intermediate power, this intermediate thought at the territorial level, for the dynamization of regions. That is precisely what you are also failing and is one of the subjects by which The Greens want to fight and who consider themselves to be decisive in the country. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u53	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in discussing territorial cohesion, the depopulation, ageing and economic depression of many territories within the country, it is important to remember that these problems have a direct relationship with political options — and those of the PSD and the CDS in the former Government were not to solve the problems but to aggravate them. As the CFP has stated, the occupation of the territory has always been a fundamental element for the production of wealth and for the promotion of national production. Living conditions within the country are not only important for low-density territories, they are also important for the national economy and for territories with high population concentration. The problems of fixing the Portuguese do not have to do with poverty in the territories, they may have to do with the distribution of the wealth produced. We reaffirm: a country with territorial balance and economic and social cohesion requires a regional development policy that combats regional asymmetries, depopulation and desertification. This requires a wide range of integrated and regionally dynamized policies by a regional power from regionalisation, local authorities with strengthened financial capacity and state budgets supported by Community funds, with strong positive discrimination of territories with significant population losses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u56	But it essentially requires economic policies that, in the current capitalist framework, can break with the single market logic in the allocation and location of material resources and human resources; an agricultural and forestry policy favouring family exploitation and productions that guarantee the human occupation of the territory and safeguard agricultural soils and biodiversity, refusing large areas of intensive monoculture; a vision to reindustrialize the country, with the appreciation of the industrial transformation of the regional raw material in the region, and a consideration of wholesale and retail trade distribution networks that intensify regional flows. These policies, geared to productive activity, need to create stable, well-remunerated employment opportunities and rights. It is about this employment and production that other activities, such as tourism and other services, can be anchored and expanded in a sustainable way and to defend the rural world. At the same time, infrastructure networks, equipment and public services (health, education, social security, water and waste, taxation, justice and security) and local and regional structures of strategic energy companies, telecommunications, transport and finance should be maintained and developed. This is what the country needs, but this is not what the CDS proposes. Many proposals and programmes have been announced over the years, but without the right measures. However, without the provision of means for this to be done, the problem of regional asymmetries and territorial cohesion cannot be solved. It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: « Well prays Brother Thomas, do as he says, do not do what he does! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This operation, which once again the CDS brought us here, is, as we have stated, a monument to political hypocrisy that the CFP cannot make clear. The multiplication of initiatives, the pretext of the 'internal' — movements, missions, strategies and studies — involving personalities and parties responsible for the right-wing policy that led to the emphasis on asymmetries and the abandonment of vast areas of the national territory, aims to circumvent the real reasons behind the problems, reasons and guidelines that are being re-edited again in the National Territorial Management Policy Programme (NPOT) now under discussion, in the strategic investment plan or in reaffirming the refusal of regionalisation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There is no propaganda that deceives reality. The country's economic, social and territorial cohesion, whether the revitalization of the rural world and the fight against depopulation, whether the response to city problems and especially in metropolitan areas, is not compatible with the options of decades that unite PS, PSD and CDS in a convergent and continuous process. The full fulfilment of constitutional rights in health, education, social security, housing or culture is not compatible with the subjection of the euro and the European Union with which PS, PSD and CDS agree. And, as we will see later, the defence of rights and the valuation of workers'wages — essential for the development and future of the country as a whole — are not compatible with the linkage to the interests of the great capital and employers'confederations, which unites PS, PSD and CDS. Public services continue to lack workers, equipment, investment in their maintenance and strengthening, with consequences in response to populations. Therefore, we welcome the struggle developed by the populations, from the outset, the populations of the interior of the country, in defense of public services, against the closure of agencies of the General Deposit Box and CTT stations; in defense of the National Health Service, by guaranteeing primary health care, against the lack of family doctors and the closure of services and valences in the SNS; in defense of the public transport of passengers and the improvement of quality and safety; against the payment of tolls in the former SCUT; by the requalification of road routes and in defense of more and more ready support to victims of fires. And we welcome the workers and workers from so many points in the country—and also from the interior, where they work, they create wealth and build a better life—which today came to Lisbon saying 'no' to the policies of exploitation and attack on rights. With this fight and with the concrete proposals and actions that we will continue to develop, we will have to build this future better for our country and our people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u57	For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The appreciation of the interior is one of the most important national challenges, and we therefore congratulate the CDS for bringing the discussion back to this issue. We remember, however, that in May, by the hand of Mr Prime Minister — and was welcomed by various political forces — the Government brought to this plenary a debate on the subject, making this challenge a national priority and a question for all Portuguese. Today, we welcome the CDS for promoting the discussion, but we must not fail to express our surprise at the marking of this current debate, which may well be considered as a fault. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one has forgotten or will forget the contribution of the CDS to the current situation in these territories. No one has forgotten or will forget the contribution they have made to the desertification and impoverishment of the interior, almost forgotten during the periods when the PSD and the CDS were in government, particularly in the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are today a more aware country that it is urgent to implement territorial cohesion and therefore we are a country more attentive to the real needs of these territories and their populations. It is urgent to create conditions so that these impoverished and impoverished regions can grow, exploit their potential and contribute to the added value they have for national development, a path that this government has come to trace with objectivity and determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember that, in May, when Mr Prime Minister came forward with the policies of appreciation of the interior, the CDS refrained from participating in the debate on this subject, deviating from the subject. Today, we realize that the CDS will not have read the report of the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior ( UMVI), but believe that the problems of these lands and of these nations are solved by a tax statute that came here. It has finally awakened the CDS to the importance and attention that the interior territories have and should deserve. So welcome, because the Government of the Socialist Party is working and the commitment it has made with the autarchs of all political forces and different entities is being met with confidence and determination in favour of the interior. They are all called to answer: « Present! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u59	I do not know whether any parliamentary group still wants to intervene before we move on to the intervention of the Government and the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. [[Pause.]] It is that what has been common practice in these debates is to end the party that called for the debate and also the government. But if there is another interpretation, please say. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block was appointed to intervene. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: When it comes to matters relating to the lack of territorial and social cohesion and, in particular, matters relating to the interior, it is good to pay attention to reality and numbers. I would like to leave here the Government and the parliamentary groups three data on a fundamental indicator and which well demonstrates the situation we are living in. In the 35 OECD countries, the subnational share of public expenditure is 40, 4 % and in the 28 countries of the European Union, 33, 4 %. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members in Portugal are 12 %. This is the reality that has to be reversed, this is the reality that we have faced for decades in our country. And as long as there is no action to reverse this reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can 'cry crocodile tears' and make pious statements, but nothing will be resolved about territorial cohesion in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u61	Unfortunately, on the part of the CDS, the only thing we see is that hunger, which is structural, is normal in the CDS, of giving benefits to capital, to companies. Come with what argument comes — the inside or any other — what needs to be given to businesses. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what concrete measures are there to change this reality?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u62	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u63	What we are concerned about is that this debate has been well demonstrated...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u64	Sir, you have to finish. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u65	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we are concerned that in this debate it has been well demonstrated that the PS accuses the PSD of the situation we are living and the PSD accuses PS of the situation we are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u66	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u67	But the fact, Mr President, is that PS and PSD quickly jump to each other's lap to make a new agreement and say that they are now going to solve the internal problem. The truth is, whoever brought us here can't get us out of this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u68	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u69	And this agreement between PS and PSD is to aggravate the situation we live in. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u70	The grids are approved at the Leaders' Conference and must be respected by all parliamentary groups approving them. Mr António Lima Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u71	Mr President, taking advantage of the short time left, I wanted to leave this appeal here: that the Government should take advantage of the reprogramming of Community funds to, rather than bet on the Lisbon subway, which has other sources of funding, invest in the interior. That money's needed inside. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u72	Invest these EUR 165 million inside! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u73	For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This theme of internal desertification has been for decades. It is not imputable to any government, it has already begun in the 1960s with changes in the structural conditions of the Portuguese economy. The subject of demography is serious, it's serious. The reality is different: district capital cities, cities where there are higher education institutions, cities where there is economy are growing demographics, but the rest of the population is leaving the rest of the territory. We must continue to encourage job creation, attracting investment, we must have a model to treat the rural landscape where there is no population, to avoid precisely the degradation and the scourge of the fires we have, we must continue to know how to provide quality public services to a population that will still remain in agglomerated for a long time and that is getting older. It is more expensive to provide health care, provide social action services to those in isolated agglomerates and is an aging population. These are the challenges we face and, for these challenges, we need to concentrate well on the resources we have available and we need to find measures that are truly effective. Decentralisation is also a measure in this regard. Allowing the local management of the State's financial resources is also a way to better respond to the needs of the population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On 14 July the Council of Ministers will meet to approve the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme (PNPOT) and the revision of the National Territorial Cohesion Programme (PNCT). We must then identify the measures that we will continue to propose to implement in order to work these three fronts: attracting investment to create jobs and retain populations, providing quality public services to people who are isolated and ensuring that the rural landscape does not remain abandoned, even though the territories have a lower density. As has already been said, it is at the level of the management of the next multiannual financial framework ( QFP ) that this whole House — the whole country! — it will be called on to make decisive choices. How do we want to allocate national resources to work on these three priorities? That is the great opportunity we have left right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u75	To conclude the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals presented by the CDS today began to be studied a year ago. For a year we have persisted in proposals to value the interior. in this debate and this morning, we watched several scenes of jealousy between management and central block, but these excuses - I comment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u77	All right! [[Protests by BE Jorge Costa and the Member of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u78	The CDS is more concerned about discussing its proposals than about discussing exactly who the PS is joining. in this sense, and with regard to our proposals, I would like to say that I register the opening attitude of the government and even use it to answer, because you asked me, about the differences from the past. It is that we now not only talk about incentives for companies, we talk about a set of incentives that are for companies, that are for investment, but they are also for people and, if they had listened to me when I spoke from the gallery, it became clear and it was explicit that we are talking at an IRS drop. What we propose is for half and, yes, this measure has a financial impact that is great and therefore we are open to its gradual application, and also to the deduction in IRS of costs with tolls and fuels. To these proposals, which are concrete and which are also, I would say, extremely necessary and urgent, we have had several answers here. Since a responsible opening speech, we have had the custom, which is a discourse about the past, always with great care not to talk about the distant past, only talking about the past of the last few years. And it remains extraordinary not only the effort that the PS does but also the Block, the PCP and the Greens to pretend that the Socrates government never existed, that the country has never been in pre-banking and that none of this ever happened. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u79	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputy was on the phone when we spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u80	It is extraordinary this effort that they make, as it is also extraordinary that, in the speech of the present, no one seems responsible! Apparently, for many of the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is responsible for the past, no one is responsible for the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u81	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u82	It's too bad! What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u83	For now, neither does the government, nor the parties that support it, and therefore I am really surprised when I hear about political hypocrisy. I believe that political hypocrisy is the parties that support the government's opposition to being responsible for the current state of affairs after they've been supporting the government for three years. That is really extraordinary! [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is a real exercise of political hypocrisy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take responsibility! When you negotiate budget support, you also negotiate the political choices that you make there,... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] ...what they choose as priority and what they choose as secondary. Aren't you happy? Choose differently! Well, the CDS attitude is quite different...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u85	... these deresponsibility attitudes. When, in the past, the CDS was called to solve problems that it had not created in the government, it certainly said « present! ', by Portugal, and now that you are in the opposition does not resign and also says 'present' when solutions and proposals need to be presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u87	That is what we have done here, and we hope that this will be the first of many debates so that we can put these proposals into practice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u88	We thus conclude the first item on the agenda on the CDS-PP marking. We have moved on to the second item on the agenda, on which the joint debate generally includes the following diplomas: Proposal for a Law No 136 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code and its regulations and the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System ; Bill No. 608 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reinforces the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, making the 8. amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 609 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Assigns the right to 25 days of annual holidays, starting at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 647 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reimposes amounts and calculation rules in termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 797 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed( 13 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 886 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — revokes dismissal due to inadaptation and amends the system of collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction, strengthening the rights of workers ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 912 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers( 14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 728 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeal the amendments to the Labour Code introduced during the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 729 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) ( BE) — Alter the legal regime applicable to term contracts, implementing the commitments contained in the Government programme and the recommendations of the working group for the preparation of a national plan to combat precariousness, with effect from 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 730 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeals amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the Troika period relating to termination of the job and eliminates the figure of dismissal due to inadaptation by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 902 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 903 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reverts the cuts introduced by the PSD/CDS Government on holiday days, at compensatory rest, to the increase in remuneration due to additional work and devotes to Tuesday carnival as a compulsory holiday (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 904 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Combat false temporary work and restrict the use of outsourcing and temporary work (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 905 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal on objective grounds when the employer makes compensation available to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 900 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens ) ; Bill No. 901 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The rules allowing the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed (The Greens) ; Bill No. 909 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code (The Greens) ; Bill No. 897 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognising the right to 25 working days of holiday (NAP); Bill No. 898 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June acknowledging the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). I now call on the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva, to present the Government's bill. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last two and a half years, almost 300 000 jobs have been created in Portugal in liquid terms. Unemployment is at 7,2 % when international forecasts and some national forecasts indicated that we were at this time well above 10 %. All of this with an increase in the minimum wage of 15 % and the overall increase in wages. All this with the collective negotiation going beyond the 800 000 covered, far from the almost destruction of the recent past but well below what we aspire to. All of this with the greatest economic growth and employment in the last 20 years. It has been possible to build in Portugal a path faithful to our commitments and objectives, to regain confidence and economic and social progress, but we need to take more steps in this path of progress, to meet the structural challenges we face. This is therefore the time to get not only more but better employment, to respond to the long-identified priorities and to follow up the broad debate that has taken place on the basis of the Green Paper on Labour Relations ( LVRL). This is the purpose of the set of measures adopted by the Government, following a social agreement: to promote change for more and better employment. Various measures, with meaning and impact, to combat insecurity in employment, to combat precariousness, to encourage collective bargaining. Measures that fully meet the priorities and commitments of the Government and all those that have been taken in the meantime. Measures with advances that go, in many cases, beyond these commitments: in term hiring, in temporary work, in combating informal work, in strengthening the collective dimension of labour relations and social protection. Measures adopted by the Government and submitted to the debate by this Assembly of the Republic, which reverse the tendency, by many considered inevitable, that the future of work should be the most precarious and prolonged instability. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is truly the first set of measures designed and directed to combat precariousness in Portugal, articulated, systematic and cross-border, on several fronts simultaneously and with effective and powerful instruments to produce results. We propose to limit the term contracts to a minimum of two years' history. More: that these two years can only be reached if the first contract is after one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u90	That should be over!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u91	We propose to limit the possibility of term contracts, existing in the law, for large companies when they open new establishments. We propose that the rule allowing long-term contracts to have become the main, if not the only one, door to employment for young people and for long-term unemployed should be deleted. Because the reality is overwhelming, only 15 out of 100 new entries in social security correspond to endless contracts, we propose that the entry door to employment should be, as a rule, the contract without end, assuming that, for those who have no experience or have been long away from the labour market, an experimental period can be justified which reinforces the possibilities of hiring, removing the spectrum from the contract in time and the other even worse, which is nothing to do to reduce the difficulties of entering the employment of young people and long-term unemployed. We propose better protection for young trainees, establishing that those who went through an internship in a company no longer have to go through an experimental period. We propose that there should be a maximum of six renewals of temporary work, when there was no limit and it was possible to contract for two years, for example on a daily basis. We also propose to strengthen the knowledge by the workers of the reason why they are hired in this way, so that they can better defend their rights and ensure the effectiveness of the law, and that user companies are more responsible for the integration of these workers in case of non-compliance. We propose to penalize companies that opt for excessive recourse to the turnover of their tables, by comparison with the reality of the sector of activity in which they are integrated. We propose, while fully fulfilling the commitment of the Government Programme, to eliminate the individual hourly bank which had left each worker at the mercy of the inevitable imbalance of the individual relationship with the employer. On the contrary, we propose to reserve the hourly bank for negotiation between employers and trade unions or for collective, democratic decisions in companies, with all guarantees of secret suffrage and follow-up by workers' organisations or by the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ), approved by at least two thirds of the workers involved. We propose to extend the principle of the most favourable treatment for the payment of additional work, so that collective bargaining can only set it above the limits laid down in the law, and also extend the range of materials that are guaranteed to workers in individual contracts when collective bargaining expires, to include the rights of parenthood and safety and health at work. We propose that the expiry of the collective conventions should, for the first time, be justified and a new possibility of suspensive arbitration at the end of the process, so that there will be a new incentive to resume negotiations. Finally, we propose a strengthening of public bodies in the field of work. With the deepening of the inspection capacity of ACT, in human resources and information systems, making work with social security systematic and permanent, which is already on the ground with a joint national inspection action to over 1000 companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a battery of instruments of unequivocal meaning, progress of rights and equality. A sense of progress in labour relations, with important steps and impact on people's lives, to improve the quality of employment, to improve regulation of our labour market. A sense of progress in the whole and in each of the measures we have submitted to the parliamentary debate. A sense of progress that has been the policy of this government, the strategy and practice of this majority. The quality and fairness of these measures do not mean that they have been supported by a concerted agreement, although this is very important. They have the ability to change jobs and jobs for the better. That, and only that, is the objective that moves us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u92	Mr Vieira da Silva, there are four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u93	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u94	To make requests for clarification by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u95	Mr. President, Minister Vieira da Silva, spent two and a half years after 2015, when the PS, saying that it was not the right time to decide, was successively dropping the PCP projects for the repeal of the burdensome standards of labour law. Finally, the time has come. And what did the PS government do? Another agreement in social consultation with employers'confederations and the UGT ( General Workers'Union ), the content of which is now set aside in the proposal submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. When, as the PCP defends, the elimination of expiry and the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, the PS Government insists on the expiry of collective bargaining, this guillotine of rights, this blackmail instrument on wages, while insisting on allowing labour standards below what is laid down in the law. When it is necessary, as the PCP defends, to ensure dignified times and to combat time deregulation, so that it is possible to harmonise between professional life and personal and family life, the PS government comes to recycle adaptability and serve another form of hour bank, with 10 hours a day, 50 hours a week, 150 hours of extraordinary work without payment, per year. When a State policy for the elimination of precariousness is imposed, the PS Government extends the experimental period from three to six months — a rule which the Constitutional Court has already abolished in 2008 because it violates the Constitution — an instrument of precaution even worse than future contracts, which allows dismissal at any time and without compensation. at the same time, it extends the contract of very short duration from 15 to 35 days and introduces a perverse turnover rate that not only does not fight as it legitimates precariousness. What's the government doing? It is proposed to assess the average of precariousness in a given sector and to apply a rate to companies above that average. Instead of discussing whether the job is permanent or not, whether the precarious link is illegal or not, then evaluate whether it is below or above the average of the sector. Mr Minister, does the PS Government think that 30 %, 40 % or 50 % of workers are acceptable, legitimate or tolerant, just because they are below the average of the sector? The PCP does not think it is acceptable, does not think it is acceptable, does not think it is legitimate. Mr Minister, there is no reduction in the deadline for renewal of contracts or other aspects referred to as compensating for the negative character of a proposed law that harms workers. For the PCP, the path is and must be — it must continue to be! — the defence, replacement and conquest of rights, the exploitation of labour and workers, the fight against backlogs and injustice. That is the way that Portugal needs! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u96	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, Minister, the question which the Left Block has to put to it at this time is very concrete and has to do with a project which is today, here, under consideration, on the repeal of the amendments to the amounts of redundancies imposed by the Government of the Right. In 2012 the changes introduced, resulting from the Memorandum of Troika, created a serious imbalance in favour of employers, in order, among other things, to embarrass the dismissal, reducing, at the time, from 30 to 20 days, the basis for calculating the dismissal compensation. In 2013, they were even further: this basis of calculation decreased to 12 days, making it much easier for companies to use these practices, further weakening the position of the worker, already the most fragile part of the employment contract relationship. Therefore, this prank to the bosses to lay off more easily created injustice, generated real and serious losses for the workers and, along with the other changes we want to reverse today, precarious the lives of a large majority of Portuguese and Portuguese and effectively reduced the cost of work. The importance of this amendment is defended not only by the Left Block but also by other parties on the left, by organisations representing workers and by workers themselves. But it was Minister Vieira da Silva himself, who in 2013 was a Member in this House, who said that he was against the reduction in the value of compensation, which we want to reverse today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u98	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u99	I quote a part of his speech in a debate in 2013: "In this debate, the Socialist Party's position is clear: we are against the diploma that will promote a further reduction in the size of redundancies, and we are against because it seems to us that in this whole process, the government did not have the ability to defend, as it should be, the interests of Portuguese workers and our economy. There has already been a substantial reduction in the value of these compensations'. Minister, what changed this then? Does keeping this court in any way defend the interests of workers and the economy? Faced with this and the demands of the workers and workers who today are at the door of Parliament, I ask you: are Mr. Minister and the Socialist Party available to honour their 2013 positions, to be faithful to themselves and turn this court?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u100	In what year do you "be faithful to yourself"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u101	Or was the agreement with the bosses to give them the offer to keep these injustices in the labour law? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u102	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, today we discuss a Government proposal for the revision of the Labour Code and, by drag, 18 more projects, most of which are left-wing bloc and CFP. The CDS always said that it considered that the revision of the Labour Code should be discussed and agreed previously in social consultation. This is how it was done in 2012 and today we have legislation that has consistently allowed unemployment and job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u104	That must be to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u105	Yes! That is the legislation that you said would destroy employment! It is even this legislation that has allowed job creation. As you can see, they were wrong! The government increases the number of term contracts in the state and then expresses concern about segmentation. We are also concerned about segmentation, and the fact is that the rate has remained constant over the last decade, despite Mr. Minister's reform in 2009, that is, the fundamental to reducing segmentation is the trust of employers. You're done with the individual hourly bank. In your Green Paper, Minister, it is said that this can even be beneficial to workers, but they have not made any effort about this matter. Mr Minister, we need some clarification. A social agreement was concluded with the social partners representing workers and employers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u106	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u107	...and appeals have been made to the Assembly to comply with the agreement. In view of the news that there is no support for the Government's proposal, on the left side of its partners, and even for the Socialist Party's bench, what does the Government do? Will the Socialist Party require the Commission to be discharged without a vote from the Government's proposal? Do you run away from voting? That is a very important issue for us. Having concluded the social agreement with the partners, will the Government now start a negotiation process, together with the Budget, with its left partners and will reverse the agreement? Are you going back with your word, Minister? I recall that the Government has already breached the minimum wage increase agreement for 2017 — in fact, in matters that depended only on the Government itself and not on the Assembly — and it was unable to reach an agreement for the minimum wage increase in 2018. Mr Minister, how does it guarantee compliance with the words given to the social partners? And if we fail to agree, what political consequences will it take to have failed with your word in the social agreement? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u109	To request clarification, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of Labour, this debate around your proposal for a law is marked, in our view, by enormous perplexities. The first perplexity, Minister, is when you say that, without the agreements with the Block, the PC and the Greens, these changes to labour legislation would not be possible. Minister, did you not yet realize that the festival times of the reversals have ended and that now is the time of the meetings? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u111	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u112	You're meeting each other! Mr. Minister hasn't noticed this yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u113	Is that your perplexity? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u114	See: encounters in the flood of legislative initiatives, which, solely on account of management, PC, Block and...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u115	It's PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u116	... OF THE Greens, it is 16, and also in this voting game - if you vote, do you not vote when you vote? Oh, my God! ... There is, indeed, an exercise of encounters that, of course, we hope that it will not change into a larger meeting in the State Budget for 2019. Second perplexity, Minister : You will repeat yourself in this House — it did it on Wednesday and today too — saying that existing labour legislation creates employment, combats unemployment, increases the economy. It is true, it has been so since 2013, 2014, 2015 until today! [[Rice from the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.]] You know the statistics, don't laugh! Don't laugh, because that laugh isn't constructive! V. Exa knows the sequence of these indicators. So the question that I ask you is this: if "on a winning team you don't move", why are you moving into a labour legislation that, after all, gives the Portuguese so good fruit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u118	It is truly a perplexity that leaves us. Then we still have a third perplexity, which has been mentioned here both by the PCP and by the Bloc — Mr Francisco Lopes was brutal with the Government and Mrs Isabel Pires, then, in fact, was displeased with you. [[Rice from PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] And we really get puzzled why? Because the proposal does not move in what you have both criticized, such as the causes of dismissal, the value of redundancies, the value of additional work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u119	« Good Prayer Friar Thomas »!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u120	... the essence of the expiry of collective agreements and even the duration of the holiday period. But don't move — just fine! — and this, fortunately, is safeguarded. Indeed, this is all a cause of perplexity, also for your management partners, who are concerned not about what is in your bill but about what is not in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u122	We have one last perplexity, Minister. We value the social agreement and, perhaps, it is the only virtue that brings your bill, because it comes up with a logic of social agreement, and we find it right. What we really care about is the PS statements on this matter, because apparently the PS is ready to « rout the rope ». After all, the PS is ready to present proposals for amendment to the labour agreement. That's extraordinary! It is that the labour agreement, Mr Minister, has as its first subscriber a so-called—I will read the name — Antonio Luís Santos da Costa. I don't know if the PS knows who you are, the first subscriber to this agreement... This is my perplexity, Minister, so I would like to know the answer to a very simple question: what will your position be if there is an exercise of PS proposals that are a betrayal of what has been agreed with the social partners? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u123	You have the floor to answer Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u124	Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. As long as I'm left, I'm going to answer several of the questions that have been put to me. The questions rarely focused on the real content of the changes we propose, but I go to the real content of the changes we propose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, what we are discussing here is whether or not we want to reduce the size of the contract over time, in its duration, in the reasons that justify it or make it legal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u125	And increase the precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u126	It cannot be said that a rate to penalise excessive rotation is a way of legalizing precariousness, because we are against that precariousness. What we cannot forget, because this is the reality, is that the true form of experimental period, today, in our country, is the work in time, and that is what will end if this proposal is adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese, particularly young people, will no longer have as the only entry door to the labour market a contract in time, they will be entitled to enter into a contract without end, with a different experimental period of duration, as already exists in our legislation. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] We have made it very clear that it is true, that much has changed in labour legislation and that much has changed in working relations over these years. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u127	What opposition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u128	... they seem to forget some fundamental issues. Firstly, what has changed in this political framework, with regard to labour regulation, was the firm and concrete bet on a sustained growth of the minimum wage, and this is a fundamental change! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u129	You want to talk about it? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u130	What has changed was a new framework of active employment policies, oriented towards support not to any contract, not to any stage, but to endless recruitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What has changed was the extension gates, which you had frozen and are now at the service of collective bargaining. What changed was even the general picture that guided working relationships and that was what generated trust, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u131	Mr. Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u132	That's what has generated trust, and that's what's generating trust. It was the sense of progress and progress of this policy that led to the agreement of social consultation, without blackmail or surrender, in a logic of commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u133	Please conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President. In a commitment logic, yes, sir, but with the certainty that we want to close the door to precariousness, we do not want to close the door to employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u135	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have another opportunity to decide which way we want to go to the country: the path of valuing work and defending employment with rights or the path of worsening exploitation and degradation of living and working conditions. The agreement signed by the PS Government with the employers' confederations and the UGT maintains the serious standards of labour law and introduces new negative elements. The Government insists on maintaining the expiry of collective bargaining and refuses to introduce the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker; it opts for the acceptance and legalization of precariousness rather than the eradication of precariousness; it opts to insist on the increase and deregulation of the working time and maintains untouchable standards, deeply burdensome, introduced in 2012 by the hand of the PSD and the CDS. throughout this legislation, the CFP has brought here central proposals for the life of workers and the country: the end of the expiry of collective bargaining and the total and unilateral power of the employers destroy rights that exist only in collective bargaining; the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, ensuring that what the Labour Code provides is the minimum and not the maximum in relation to workers' rights; the end of the mechanisms of increase and deregulation of hours, such as hourly banks and adaptability; the replacement of compensatory rest and the payment values of overtime, supplementary and working dayly work; the proposal of 35 hours for all public and private workers. All these proposals were rejected by the PS, the PS, and the CDS. Mr President, today we are again proving and proposing which side we are on. Yesterday as today, we know where we came from and where we want to go: always with the workers, their rights and the progress of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u138	We therefore propose the replacement of 25 working days for all workers, the public and the private; the end of dismissal by inadaptation; the amendment of the criteria for dismissal; the amendment of the rules and amounts of dismissal compensation, protecting workers. We also propose the end of the term contract for young people and long-term unemployed; the end of the use of temporary work and outsourcing for the permanent needs of companies and services; the guarantee that a permanent job always corresponds, but always, to an effective contract. The fight outside of the thousands of workers who have responded to the appeal of the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion ), the debate and the proposals we bring here prove which side we are on and which country we want to build. Workers' rights are not incompatible with the competitiveness and development of the country, on the contrary, workers' rights are mandatory conditions for the competitiveness and development of the country, a country of progress and social justice, with employment with rights for all. This is the PCP contribution! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u139	Mr José Moura Soeiro spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today is about the lives of those who live in their work and is one of the most important debates in this legislature. For almost two years, the Left Bloc discussed with the Socialist Party and the Government a set of measures to combat precariousness and abuse in future contracts. We have agreed on several measures to limit the scope, duration and basis of this form of precariousness. This set of measures agreed with the Government will today be voted on in the Bloc project, which implements the results of the Working Group on Combating Precautionaryness. These positive measures negotiated with the Bloc over almost two years are also included in the proposed law which the Government is submitting to this Parliament and which will be voted on in the next plenary session. But after we closed doors to precariousness together with these measures, the government opened a set of windows with other measures, agreed with the employers' confederations at 25. the time and back of the parliamentary partners, which mitigate, reduce the scope and, in some cases, flagrantly contradict the effect of what had been negotiated on the left. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The surprise was from the Bloc and it was from many socialists. It was never written in the Government Programme that the experimental period should be doubled. It was never written in the Government's programme that the short-term contracts were intended to be generalised. Let it be clear: in the experimental period, dismissal is free, there is no need to invoke any reason and the end of the contract does not give rise to any kind of compensation, which, in fact, does not happen in future contracts. More: in the Government's proposal, nothing prevents the same employer from using 10, 20, 30 experimental workers in the same job. It is not even clear whether anyone who is from an experimental period in an experimental period can become, on a permanent basis and for the rest of his life, a person seeking the first job. Nothing warrants that, for indifferent tasks, such as serving a coffee or changing beds, it is necessary to stay six months — six months! — experience, without any right. Moreover: the drafting of this article, as lawyers of all sensitivities have warned, without exception, is filled with unconstitutionality, because they can violate the principles of safety in employment and equality in access to employment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this rule were to remain as proposed by the Government, it would be the first time that this majority would be threatened to violate the Constitution. But it's not just this standard! After the left, the Government closed the door to abuses in the long term contracts, it negotiated with the employers the extension of special contracts of very short duration. The short-term is not the only feature of these contracts, but would be short-term contracts. No, they are special, indeed, special, for three reasons: first, they are oral contracts, they do not need to have anything written with the worker; second, there is no need to justify the reason, I stress, there is no need to justify the reason; third, they do not give any compensation and are not subject to the penalties provided for in the law for contracts in the term, in particular those that provide for conversion into a contract without end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u141	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u142	These special contracts are a black hole and are the most extreme form of precariousness. And what proposal does the government make about this, at the request of the bosses? Two: firstly, to increase the duration of these special contracts by 60 % and, secondly, to extend its scope, which is now restricted to tourism events and agricultural seasonality, to all sectors of economic activity, I repeat, to all sectors of economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am telling you that I do not believe that Members of the Socialist Party can accept this barbarity. If the Government has accepted this imposition of the bosses, that is with the government, but now is Parliament's time, and my appeal to the Socialist Party's Members is clear: let us join forces to prevent this form of extreme precaution, let us be faithful to our commitment against precariousness, let us be responsible for the specialization process. A third question is that of the hourly bank. Today, a project of the Left Block will be voted on to end the individual hour bank, which allows, without any collective mediation, to impose, 50 hours of work per week, i.e. more time without more pay, the disorganization of personal and family life and instability in daily life. The Government's bill has the same measure, which we are now going to approve — so we expect — to put an end to the individual hourly bank, but it adds to it another, as a counterpart offered to the employers: a new figure of hourly bank outside collective bargaining. It is not worth figuring that this new hour bank, through a plebiscite organized by the bosses, is a form of working democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u143	And UGT, doesn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u144	Are you usually on the workers' side? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u145	It's all but that! It is a serious form of taxation and violence, because, in addition to being a bank of hours to circumvent collective bargaining and trade union mediation, with majority support, it imposes itself imperatively on the worker, even if that worker has voted against, even if that worker does not want to do that time, even if that worker has opposed that proposal, even if that worker or worker cannot, for family reasons, make that time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament is not the low chamber of employers' confederations, and no parliamentary group, I stress, no parliamentary group should give in to such blackmail. The commitment to the course made so far confers on us the responsibility, duty and obligation to ensure the adoption of measures to combat precariousness and to ensure, together, the lead of measures to encourage it. Today, we will vote on several projects on the left and the Left Block. When we propose to Parliament to eliminate the cuts that the right introduced on holiday days, the cut for half in the value of overtime hours, the cut in 60% of the redundancies, which the Socialist Party opposed in 2013, we are consistent with the recovery of income, and we call on the Socialist Party for this coherence and responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u146	When we defend rules to combat abuse in temporary work and to give rights to workers in outsourcing, such as cleaning workers in this House, who earn 1, 80 € of lunch allowance and can not even lunch in our canteen, because they are workers in outsourcing, what we are doing is honoring our commitment to combat precariousness, and we call the Socialist Party for that responsibility and for that coherence. When we argue that the unilateral expiry of collective agreements, which guarantee the most favourable treatment, which ends with the rules of numbness of workers, such as the rule that prevents the worker who has received the compensation from contesting the prohibition of dismissal, we are combating humiliation, we are combating the destruction of solidarity built up at work and from work, we are defending the dignity of those who live from his work, we are being consistent in combating precariousness, in valuing those who work, in the recovery of income, and we call on the Socialist Party and all this Parliament for that responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u147	Mrs. Members, the next intervention is by Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are now discussing several legislative initiatives aimed at recovering rights from those who work. We are talking about rights that the previous government, using the conversation that has been used to us for four years, such as increasing productivity, competitiveness and fighting the deficit, has removed from our horizon, and with serious consequences for those who work. The question is the replacement of basic justice, i.e. the replacement of 25 working days for all workers, thus creating conditions so that workers can have more time available for rest and for family activities, until today it is increasingly difficult to reconcile professional life with family life, due to the demands that are imposed by the world of work. This is a measure which aims at valuing work and workers, an indispensable condition for true development and for the justice and social progress of our country. Another Greens legislative initiative aims to place justice in the value of compensation in the event of dismissal, because, as we are all aware, the previous government, in addition to facilitating redundancies, has made them even cheaper. It was a kind of invitation to employers to fire: « take advantage of it to say goodbye, because it is now easy and cheap». A true gift to the bosses, having many of them taken advantage of to replace workers with rights by workers without rights, as the right enjoys so much. Finally, the Greens are still proposing that the term contracts may not take place only because the workers to be employed are looking for the first job or long-term unemployed. This is a measure which, in addition to being fair, is to restore the regime of contracts to term in the right way, since the essence of the contracts to term is defined by the temporary nature of the activity to be carried out rather than by the circumstances in which workers are found. With regard to the bill, I would like to say the following: in good rigour, this proposal, which came from the Government of the Socialist Party, could have come from both the PS and the PSD or the CDS, in fact, just look at the sympathy with which the parties on the right received the agreement with the UGT and the employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u150	And it's no less. Let us see: the experimental period is extended, encouraging precariousness; 150 hours of free work per year are offered to employers through the group hour bank; and, at the level of collective bargaining, the standard of expiry is maintained. Everything tailored to employers! Looks like until you've ordered or ordered. And there is no question of the UGT Secretary-General's response when, in an interview with Antenna 1, the question "why did the compensation in the event of dismissal not remain in the agreement? "They did not stay because employers did not accept". Now, this way we can assume that only what the bosses wanted is left. Not like that! I end with a question: if we do not value work, if we do not value workers when things are better, from the point of view of our economy, let me know when we will do it. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u151	For the presentation of the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese work longer hours and have less holidays than the European average. The annual holiday period lasts for 22 working days, both for the public and private sectors, aiming at the NAP bills, which we are discussing today, to promote their extension for 25 working days in both cases. Holidays help reduce stress, relax and increase levels of energy and creativity and allow time available for participation in social, cultural or sports activities, as well as allow parents to have more time and availability to be with their children. It is necessary to create effective conditions that allow a true link between professional, personal and family life, in a balanced way, without the worker being obliged to neglect any of them. This measure also has positive impacts on the reduction of work absenteeism, often caused by stress and excessive work, increasing productivity, something that is not achieved with high hours but rather with motivated workers. In short, in this society more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with Mr André Silva's intervention, we close the stage of the presentation of legislative initiatives. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia is still speaking for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing amendments to legislation in the field of work. The Government's proposal integrates matters from the Government's programme and matters arising from the social agreement. And let us be clear: the CDS has not approved the Government's Programme and is against some of its agendas, particularly some of which are reflected in the proposed law under consideration. The CDS does not alter its thinking and will not approve rules that are contrary to what it has always said. But let's go somewhere. The Government has decided to subject this law to Parliament because it knows that it needs support from a majority of parliaments. This has not always been the case, and the government knows, has learned it from the democratic force. — but it has not changed its arrogance. The first question is as follows: what was the majority of parliaments in which the Government relied on the definition of its options?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u156	It was not the parliamentary majority that approved the Government Programme, since it is known that government-supporting parties are against several changes that the same government has negotiated. Knowing this, because this has been publicly transmitted to you, the Government is now waiting for a majority, ad hoc, precarious and unconvincing, a majority that will do you the favor of approving what it has committed to the social partners. Knowing this, however, the government did not engage in any prior negotiation of any other party, as it is known, and the CDS was certainly not involved. This week the Minister of Labour said, to whom he wanted to hear, that the Government had negotiated on its own behalf with the social partners, took the risk and did not want to pre-insure political conditions so that, apart from the Socialist Party — and apparently even within the Socialist Party — their options would have expired. This is, therefore, what is at stake here: a government surrounded inside, without bridges or dialogue with political and party support; a government at risk of isolation, proudly alone, which causes those who need it, and causes even the Constitutional Court, thus endangering those who extend their hands without hesitation. Look, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to what extent we have come from the fragility of social dialogue: the Prime Minister signs a tripartite agreement and does not politically safeguard the conditions for honouring his word. A government that does so does not give any value to the word, does not really bind itself to its commitments. How can you dignify the social dialogue? You can't! Who is like this, in everything, precarious, has no credibility in the fight against precariousness, because there is nothing more precarious than the Prime Minister's word. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the social agreement that would be promoted by the CDS, but it is the agreement that we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u157	Luckily!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u158	In view of this, it is important to say clearly that the CDS respects and values the agreement reached, but it will not allow, on its behalf, and on behalf of what it has always defended, measures of the Government programme which it has always disagreed with are implemented. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u159	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification, in fact, the Bureau does not record any request for speech. [[Pause.]] Well, as the Bureau does not record any request for a word...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u160	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u161	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u162	Mr President, we have a colleague who will speak but, as we have already spoken in this debate, we liked that the Socialist Party, which we realize is full of doubts and perplexities, could also give an air of its grace.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u163	Mr Adam Silva, we, in life, want a lot of things, but many of them do not depend on us and, therefore, in this case...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u164	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u165	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u166	Mr President, replying to Mr Adam Silva's challenge, and not revealing any doubt on the part of the Socialist Party, nor in any case on parliamentary grounds, I would like to promote an inscription on the part of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u167	Are you Mr. Member signing up?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u168	I am myself, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u169	So, Mr President, you have the floor, and Mr Adam Silva's wish is realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u170	They shouldn't do so much for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u171	You've done some, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u172	You have the floor, Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss labour laws, we never only discuss measures to regulate the world of work but, rather, the model of society we want and how we shape it, through legislation, in favour of decent work, stable and justly paid work. The complexity of the transformations of our societies is a reality, and the work must accompany it, but this reality goes through, at all times, every time and every generation. Therefore, our complexity is not greater than that which has preceded us or less than that which will happen to us. We must always accommodate change and ensure that the foundations of our vision of humanist society and solidarity are not replaced by liberalization, individualization and precariousness. It is not worth changing the laws of work, if we don't know why we change them and who we are responding to when we decide to do so. And, for socialists, there is only one answer: we have to respond to most workers, who are the weakest part of the labour relationship; to young people who aspire to a stable contract and do not have it;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to the Portuguese who at the end of a working day take home a wage too low to aspire to a decent life; to those who want to live fatherhood and have no time to reconcile it; to those who are in the shadow of informal work; to those who are in despair of unemployment; to those who are in hell of precariousness. All of these live lives in time, lives in time, and the Socialist Party responds to its demand for a society where the economy is an instrument for development and social justice and never a shortcut to promote the law of the strongest, asymmetries and inequalities. This is the heritage of the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fight against precariousness is included in the Government's programme and was a point of reference in the convergence between the current partners of the parliamentary majority. This path has been made around the joint positions and priorities expressed in each State budget, but also in the working groups that we constituted, in particular in the Working Group on Combating Precautionaryness, and at all these times we have set clear guidelines for legislative intervention in this area. After a brutal attack on workers and the stability of labor ties, which was promoted by the PSD and the CDS, but also with the liberal pressure from international institutions, the PS intervenes with the focus on stabilisation of labour relations and, on one way, seeks and initiates a set of policies that are conflicting with those that the right and the liberals defend. Since the beginning of the legislature we have taken very long steps in the rebalancing of labour relations in Portugal, and this is possible today because we have done the opposite of what others have been defending in this Assembly of the Republic for three years. I am afraid to do so by complying with the measures contained in the Government Programme and the joint positions with the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party: historical increase in the minimum wage; replacement of holidays; programme of regularization of precarious links; strengthening the protection of workers to green receipts; combating moral harassment; combating forced labour; right of opposition of workers in the event of transmission of establishment; revision of the scope of collective agreements; strengthening the means and competences of the Act (authority for working conditions), among many other measures. We have done this around a majority parliament that does not always coincide with the solutions it presents but that never ceases to preserve the identity of each party and, by this way, has never been misled on the path that has been coming since 2015. The same can also be said of the PSD and the CDS, but in the opposite sense, in contrast, because the right has never accompanied us in any of these measures to enhance workers' rights, it has never participated in any of these solutions and, therefore, today, it cannot come here to claim what is the political heritage of this government and of the entire left parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has managed to trace this path in the virtuous balance between the legitimacy of social consultation and the sphere of autonomous intervention of the Assembly of the Republic. Those who want to present today the medal of dialogue and social dialogue are the same as those who want to spend a sponge by their actions. But we're not going to let amnesia settle down.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u174	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u175	Mr Adam Silva spoke of social dialogue here. Social dialogue, Member of the Commission? Already in this legislature, the PSD and the CDS have contributed to the collapse of a social agreement we have celebrated to increase the national minimum wage, as you have always rejected it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u177	Even when the partners are prepared to sign an agreement, you assume as a sort of vanguard of the entrepreneurship and lead what the bosses themselves and the other entities have signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u178	You can't miss the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u179	Systematically, in this House, they attack trade unions who do not consider themselves aligned with your ideas and value consultation only to take rights to workers and never, never, to restore them or to increase them. We have memory and we know that in the previous legislature, the right wanted to make a structural change in our model of social security financing and went on television to announce an increase of the TSU (unique social rate)...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u180	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u181	...without going through the concert, which they did with many other rights they took. If this is your model, they confuse imposition with dialogue and intolerance with consultation, they do not have with the Socialist Party to make Parliament a simulation, a stamp of social dialogue. With the Socialist Party, there have been and will continue to be another way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u182	The scheduling today is another! Now, let's talk about today's debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u183	After setting up the house in relation to the most urgent measures in terms of the replacement of income, the strengthening of employment and the pressing changes to labour laws, we developed an in-depth study around the Green Paper, discussed solutions and started a dialogue involving partners and parties. Like all agreements, this results in a negotiated process and the approach between the parties, and it is unprecedented. It is unpublished, because it involves the commitment of the social partners on a positive path to combating precariousness. The involvement of this agreement is fundamental, not because Parliament does not have the legitimacy to present the proposals it understands, but rather to protect these measures to combat the precariousness of future derivatives from the right, as well as external pressures from international institutions that only want to simplify and cut. We started from the diagnosis we made and the challenges we faced: Portugal has 22 % non-permanent jobs, against the European average of 14 %; in the private sector, one in three contracts are non-permanent; 85 % of the first links to social security are non-permanent contracts and two in three young people have contracts like this. We need measures to deal with this challenge and we present them: we limit the legal possibilities of end-term recruitment; we strengthen the protection of temporary workers; we encourage the never-ending hiring and punish precariousness with the rate of turnover up to 2% of the wage mass of precarious workers; we guarantee better access to the social protection of precarious workers; we strengthen the inspection capacity of the ACT; and we promote the collective dimension of work relations, ending with the individual hour bank, which the right apparently continues to challenge. It is true that we have multiple and not always coincident views, but even those who consider these insufficient measures cannot fail to recognize that they translate firm steps on the path we have taken and correspond to an objective improvement for workers who should not deserve a opposition of principle but rather an agreement of principle for our work in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not need to be called for this work, because we are called for our values in defending decent work and fair work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u185	A good agreement is neither an agreement that is immutable nor such an agreement that, in accordance with the agreed principles, cannot and should not be improved, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u186	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u187	That is our role as Members of this Assembly of the Republic. This position has also been expressed by partners who have signed the agreement and appeal to our intervention in Parliament, as is the case with UGT. We therefore want to ensure that the main objectives of the Government's bill are effectively met, never forgetting that they result from a joint work with parliamentary allies that have contributed to the reflection on measures to combat precariousness. Therefore, clarifying the doubt that has been raised by the CDS, we will vote in favour in general and in this legislative session of the Government's bill, as well as the various proposals that have been made by the parties on our left. We are even aligned to return the dignity that has been removed from workers in times by PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u188	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u189	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u190	I will finish, Mr. President. The PS knows that it does not have a parliamentary majority and is available to dialogue with all forces in order to ensure the conditions for approval of this agreement. But it is good for us to be aware—and we have! — that not all the forces that support this Assembly of the Republic are committed to combating precariousness. Therefore, by preserving and respecting the time and space of the Assembly of the Republic, we will work to achieve the necessary parliamentary agreement, in respect for the integrity of the agreement, as well as for freedom and responsibility, which are the identification marks of the Socialist Party whenever it intervenes in this field. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u191	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u192	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: in this debate on changes to labour legislation, I would like to leave a few words, from the outset, and first of all, a word of congratulations. The PSD welcomes the fact that today, finally, the government is giving up on the virtualities of social dialogue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u193	For years, the PS has devalued, and has even come to disregard, the agreements concluded with the social partners. Now, it seems to have changed ideas and behaviors, which, moreover, also happens in other areas. In fact, he changed his speech. Before, the speech, irresponsible, was that there was money for everything and for everyone, now, and as you still saw this week with the IP3, the speech changed:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u195	...to make a road—see yourself well! — it is necessary to cut the careers of teachers and other public servants. It's the socialist world of legs to the air! But finally... [[PSD applause.]] If, at least in terms of social consultation, the change is serious and to take it seriously, it is never irrelevant and it will never be late. After all, as we have always said, social dialogue is a more valuable thing for Portugal: it promotes social dialogue, social peace, promotes economic and social confidence and opens opportunities for reform, modernization and development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When concluding the social agreement that gave rise to the bill today under consideration, the Government made a political choice, said « no » to the political proposals of its Bloc and CFP partners. In other words, the same government that began its mandate to make revisions ends the legislature by refusing new revisions proposed by its coalition partners. First of all, all that came from the former Government was called'social insensitivity'; now, at last, the Government recognizes that much of what has been done in the past, with courage and clarity, has proved worthwhile, has produced results and must not be demagogically reversed or altered. It is an important recognition, this, which the government has just done. It is true that he puts his leftmost allies with the nerves in fringe and it is true that he does not encourage harmony and well-being within the management, but it is an important recognition for the workers, for the employers and, therefore, for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u197	And the country, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is always more important than the conjuncural political majority that form, especially the majority whose union trait is the seat of power and not political, doctrinal or ideological coherence. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, another word for the PSD position. As far as this matter is concerned, we have always said three things that we now reaffirm. First: this was not the time to make changes and, above all, significant changes in employment. Secondly, a legislative process should be opened, however, and the path of social consultation should never be that of legislative imposition. Thirdly, we have great respect for social consultation. We are today, as we were yesterday, with the same coherence and the same spirit of openness. I therefore reiterate our congratulations on the conclusion of the social agreement. We therefore see with great concern the alleged intentions of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to want to change here, at Parliamentary level, what its Government has subscribed to in terms of understanding with the social partners. In this regard, I end with one last call of attention. If the PS changes, at Parliamentary level, what its Government has committed to doing, in terms of social consultation, no one else takes seriously this Government and this Prime Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u198	What is the interlocutor who can trust a government that makes an agreement and amends it immediately? Oh, my God! What value does the word of a government say and boast at the same time? Oh, my God! What authority does the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party have, that they do not obey or are able to be faithful to their commitments to third parties? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is involved in this process is not only the agreement concluded and the proposed law, it is also the political credibility of the Government, the PS and the Prime Minister. For us, we await the answer with the same attitude as always: consistency in positions, respect for commitments, responsibility in decisions and behaviors. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u200	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Francisco Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the issues of labour law and workers are not indifferent to this discussion. Therefore, I take advantage to greet the workers who are currently concentrated in the Assembly of the Republic by convening the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Inter-union, which well marks the meaning of defending their interests and rights and their prospects for the future of the country. The Labour Code and the amendments to the worst that have been introduced to it over the years have created a situation of regression and devastation of labour rights. Fifteen years after the statements of the then PS Vieira da Silva, regarding the state of need for the lapse of collective bargaining to lead workers and their organizations, the PS government insists on associating itself with the PSD and CDS in blackmailing workers, maintaining the expiry of collective bargaining. It also insists on the continuation of many of the negative changes made by the PSD/CDS Government in 2012 — essentially these amendments — and even adds some aspects that make the situation worse. But what has been put here, about the question of precariousness, implies another word. For the CFP, the issue is the fight against precariousness, for the CFP the issue is the elimination of precariousness, it is the adoption of a State policy that ensures that a permanent job corresponds to an effective employment contract. This is not about replacing a form of precariousness with another form of precariousness. It is not a question of replacing future contracts with an even worse form of precariousness, which is the extension of the experimental period from 90 to 180 days. [[PCP applause.]] All forms of precarious work must be combated and eradicated! It is in this sense that we must walk, for the sake of the future of the country! The way, which must be followed, of defence, replacement and conquest of rights has shown, over these two and a half years, that it is not only a factor of social justice, but also a decisive contribution to employment growth and economic development. So, what is required for the future is to continue the defense, the replacement and the conquest of rights and not the reversal of this path, not the maintenance of burdensome standards in labour law. There is a risk of all this being maintained, there is a risk of regression, there is a risk of retrogression. It is an essential question for workers, an essential question for the future of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u202	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u203	During the PSD/CDS government period, what happened was the call for emigration, with hundreds of thousands of young workers leaving the country. If the problem is not solved by ensuring decent wages, if the problem is not solved by ensuring decent hours, if the problem is not solved by ensuring stable working links, it is clear that the risk of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of workers leaving the country seeking better living conditions will continue. Thus, the valuing of workers' work as an element of social justice is necessary, but it is also an indispensable path for a developed and sovereign Portugal, for a Portugal with a future. This is the commitment of the CFP to the workers and the Portuguese people! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u204	With Mr Francisco Lopes, we close the debate on the second item on the agenda. I would like to thank Mr Vieira da Silva and the Secretary of State for his presence. We move on to the third item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves rules on the processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 680, 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system and 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the transfer by air carriers of data from passenger identification records and the processing of such data by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 681. For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u205	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, my compliments and, in your own person, I welcome all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. For the proposals of lein. 125 and 126 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), both relate to the transposition of a directive into the domestic legal order, in particular Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, which applies to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or suppressing criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties, including threats to public security but excluding treatment related to national security. Bill No 126 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) has to do with an amendment to Law No 34 / 2009, which is designed precisely to adapt our domestic legislation to the directive I have just referred to. in this proposal for a concrete law, guarantees are introduced to ensure a high level of protection of personal data within the Portuguese judicial system. In summary, the competence of the supervisory authority to monitor the processing of data of the judicial system is limited, excluding in particular the scope of the competence of the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ), the supervision of processing operations carried out by the courts in the exercise of the judicial function and by the Public Prosecutor in the exercise of his or her procedural functions and competences. I would like to point out that it is now up to the judicial magistrates and the Public Prosecutors to be responsible for the processing of data within the processes of their competence and in the exercise of their procedural powers, as it is the same responsibility for the judges of peace and mediators of the public mediation systems in relation to their processes. With regard to this proposal, I would also point out that the Commission for the Coordination of the Management of Data relating to the Judicial System is revitalized and is to be designated - the Committee for the Coordination of the Information Management of the Judicial System, revising in depth its composition and competences and maintaining the designation of two persons of recognised merit by the Assembly of the Republic. As regards Bill No 125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), would point out that the directive under consideration accepts as principles of the processing of personal data—and that the transposition of this diploma in turn welcomes—the principles of the lawfulness, purpose, minimization and conservation only for the period necessary for the purpose that legitimates the treatment. I also stress the obligation of the controller to clearly distinguish data according to certain categories of holders, including suspects, persons convicted of crime, victims and third parties. It is also established the obligation to distinguish personal data on the basis of facts or mere personal assessments. In particular, the rights of access, rectification, deletion and limitation of data processing shall be ensured. It is also ensured that the data processed are restricted to those specifically necessary for the purpose pursued and also the obligation to designate a data controller. Finally, it is appropriate to monitor the implementation and compliance of the procedure now provided for by the CNPD, with some exclusions, of which I have already set an example with regard to the first diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u206	Mrs. Members, the Government requested that, in the case of three legislative initiatives relating to correlated but distinct matters, two of its members should have been submitted by the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, who has already submitted the proposals of Lein 125 and 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and now the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, who will submit, I believe, the proposal for law No 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). The Secretary of State has 1 minute and 10 seconds. He asked for it to be as soon as possible. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u207	My congratulations to Mr President and to the Bureau as well as to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 137 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ), which is presented here, following a European directive, in order to create a passenger information unit for data registration and identification of passengers for certain catalogue crimes, including crimes of terrorism and serious crime. at present there is a set of criteria for analysis and for verifying, in terms of criminal prevention, in relation to catalogue crimes, these data in terms of transport of passengers from the European Union and outside the European Union. It should be noted that the National Data Protection Commission is the competent authority to monitor compliance with the data collected by this bill and that following criminal prevention actions to be developed it will have to be made to the judicial authorities, in particular the Public Prosecutor's Office or a judge, and that the competent investigations will be initiated by the DPRK ( Central Investigation and Criminal Action Department ). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u208	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, especially for the containment of your intervention. Mr José Manuel Pureza do Bloco de Lefta, do Bloco de Lefta.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u209	Mr. President, Mr. State Secretaries, Mr. and Mr. Members: The Government is submitting three proposals for legislation to us. We will not take any special consideration of the proposals of lein. 125 and 126 / XIII ( 3. ( a). I will focus on the proposal for a law regulating the transfer of data from passenger identification resources by air carriers. This proposal refers to PNR (Passenger Name Record) data and, in this case, paraphrasing an old President of this House, would say « curious name». I would like to mention the explanatory statement of the proposed law: « Data from passenger identification records (PNR data) consist of personal information provided by passengers and collected, processed and stored by air carriers only for commercial purposes». ‘Only for commercial purposes’? So, what data are we talking about? What data are so relevant to the investigation of crimes of terrorism and high crime, that they are strictly commercial? What are we talking about? the name of the passenger? where did that person sit? from places where you travel often? If you like to travel to the window or in the corridor? What is your favorite diet? There was a sketch by the Fedorent Cat, about a debate about the fight against terrorism, in which a delicious character, played by Ricardo Araújo Pereira, the Gajo de Alfama, praised the existence of a bomb that « went there to smell the caril». History has grace if it is the denunciation, as was the case, of an absolutely stupid common sense, but history has no grace at all, when the bomb that "goes there to the smell of caril" becomes law, which aggressively legitimizes the introduction into all our lives and makes it in a completely disproportionate way, thus grossly violating the elementary principles of the rule of law. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, it is worth, in addition to this complaint, absolutely clear on our part, and of our criticism, also absolutely clear, some questions. First of all, its impact on all passengers, because that is what it is about, not the incidence on some passengers, but on all, starting with the suspects, including the maintenance of the data in the possession of the Single Contact Point of the Internal Security System, long after a citizen, on which there has been no evidence of the practice of crime, if it has been removed from the national territory. Why? What's the reason? How is this justified in a rule of law? Second question: who are the competent authorities? The bill does not identify them. Do you want to hide some? Why didn't you? Is there any reason to justify it? We don't believe it! But besides, these entities, which are not appointed, have the right to treat the PNR data that have been transmitted to them, which, as citizens, I must say, fills me with enormous perplexity. Third question: why is the PNR data from the Judicial Police to the Internal Security System passed? Is there any justification?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u210	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u211	I shall certainly finish, Mr. President. Only one last note: from our point of view, this bill does not, of course, deserve our follow-up, because it grossly violates the intransponsible beacons of what is a rule of law. I believe that is exactly what the perpetrators of terrorist acts want. To give them this bonus is not, from our point of view, acceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u212	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing today is to complement or add to the ongoing discussion on the application and transmission to the national legal order of the General Data Protection Regulation in areas where the sensitivity of the topics inevitably lacks follow-up with complementary legislative instruments. Since then, as already mentioned, with regard to Bill No 125 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) by also transposing the Community Directive, which follows precisely the amendment within the General Data Protection Regulation, while maintaining what seems to us to be the frameworks for the operation of the Regulation — the law, the purpose, the minimization, the maintenance for periods and for the purposes necessary and well-defined purposes of the pursuit of the objectives on the table — obviously by doing what is indispensable, which is the adaptation, at the organic level and the definition of the internal competences, of whom it is responsible and how the administrative and follow-up powers of the CNPD are linked to those responsible for judicial authorities, in particular the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, of course, must have full responsibility for the procedural rules they have to comply with. At the same time, Bill No 137 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) complements this architecture by revising the national system of data on the justice system. In addition, we also have the opportunity to discuss today at this headquarters the subject of data transmission, as we have just mentioned, of air passengers. in this case, I must say that it is obviously important and with interest that we look at the initiative and, unfortunately, we cannot follow to a large extent the considerations which have just been extended by Mr José Manuel Pureza, to the extent that the regime obviously pursues needs and objectives that are clear to the level of safety, we cannot fail to guard against the master traves both of the General Data Protection Regulation and of what seems to us to be proportionality, which is quite clear at all times and which ensures that, in a perspective of need, balance and adequacy, no obsessive ones are created. We are far from agreeing and following the notion of a little caricature, partly, but certainly hyperbolized by what is, and which is underlying here, a clear regime, with rules, a regime that ensures and cautions balance between conflicting positions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u214	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u215	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, I must confess that I have had some difficulty in organizing this debate not because of the matter or the content itself, which is not particularly brilliant and in time we will have the opportunity to deal with it, but because of the time we are given to deal with these matters. It is clearly impossible to treat matters of this nature and with this complexity at the reason of 1 minute for each initiative and, therefore, this modus operandi, frankly, despises a matter which is sensitive and despises it in time, in form, mode and content and, therefore, I would not like to start without leaving this note. And I, or I did this debate in the advertising way and said, very quickly and running, "This debate does not exempt the consultation of the leaflet, blah, blah, blah..."... [[Laughing.]] ... and no one understood anything and so it was not possible to have a perceptible debate—and I have a lack of way for it—or, then, said three or four generalities that do not give anything and did not advance much to the discussion. Therefore, I limit myself to leaving three simple notes, Mr Secretary of State, the first, and previous, to say that, good or bad, much of this legislation is basically useless without a National Data Protection Commission duly operational, effective, functional and adapted to the new Regulation, because many of these matters are in line with the new General Data Protection Regulation. Without all this being functional and operational, what we're discussing is dead letters. So there is a previous issue that needs to be resolved and we will not fail to contribute to it. The second point I would like to mention is to make it absolutely clear that, in the proposals for legislation on the General Data Protection Regulation, the CDS will abstain from voting on these initiatives, not because the issue is indifferent to it, on the contrary, or because it seems to us to be all right, because it is clearly not all right in relation to these matters, but it has, in our view, been able to tackle and worsen the problem. So what we are prepared to do is to check what is possible to correct, what is possible to do better and to weigh without making any progress. The third note I wanted to leave is deeper. On the one hand, I wanted to make clear the existence of some serious shortcomings in the transposition and adaptation of the Regulation, which have already been pointed out by a number of entities, which should and should have been included in the process, in fact, we should have done so two years ago — it is not worth returning to this discussion, but it should be resolved on at least one side for at least two years and it is not because of the government's manifest lack of action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u217	On the other hand, the perpetuation of differentiated treatment between public and private entities. Frankly, it is absolutely unacceptable for private entities to continue to say that they have absolutely everything to do and that there is little for public entities to do and it is said that then we can see what happens to public entities. Public entities generate very sensitive data and it is unacceptable that they are exempt from this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u219	Finally, and more seriously, the imperative need for the processing of data from the judicial system which obviously has to be done in accordance with the unbreakable principles of the separation of powers and independence of the judicial function, which, moreover, European legislation cautions it and which, frankly but not surprisingly, this Government seems to have forgotten. This is a fundamental matter which defines us as a rule of law and which cannot even have a belliscan. Therefore, in this matter, we will be here for your intransigent defense and to ensure it fully. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u220	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The subjects of the proposed laws we are now discussing contain a special complexity and sensitivity and may therefore be able to admit some delays and even some disagreements in these initial proposals. The position of the PSD in relation to these three proposals of law will always be carried out in a constructive perspective and the improvement of the texts under discussion here. However, among the various shortcomings that are seen in the proposals, we highlight the following: we were unable to understand in Bill No 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the goodness of Article 7. paragraph 1, in particular in what we believe to be a patent gap regarding the non-inclusion of security services and the Tax Authority in the range of competent authorities, contrary to what appears to us to be in the Internal Security Act and the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and that would be important with regard to PNR data. If the purpose of this bill is to contribute to security and protect people from threats of terrorism and serious crime, then it is imperative that security forces, including the information services and the Tax Authority, with regard to money laundering and the financing of terrorism, be considered legally competent in this matter, on the ground that the directive is diverted, which seems to us to mean exactly the opposite of what is in this bill. With regard to Bill No 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the purpose of this Regulation is to regulate data protection within the judicial system. In its Article 25. the, is set up the committee for coordinating the management of information of the judicial system that happens to another committee, but with another composition and with more robust competences. Although not designated as a supervisory authority, this committee has the power to determine technical and security audits and thus access personal data subject to processing in judicial proceedings. The two bodies of this committee shall be chaired by members of the Government in the area of justice, and their coordinator council shall be composed of administrative bodies and subject to governmental protection. In other words, this committee, I repeat, with powers now strengthened, depends directly on the government and shares the control activity with CNPD, that is, an entity of the Administration, independent of the Government. The PSD judges this unwise and even dangerous solution. It is potentially unconstitutional because it can violate the principle of the separation of powers, as it also refers to the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic. Other disagreements exist, but of them we will deal with in the specialty phase, which will follow. Our sense of final vote will depend on the progress that is possible at this stage of speciality. As the PSD is concerned, we will draw up proposals for amendments appropriate to European law, with a sense of responsibility and strict respect for the logic of the organization of our judicial system, as defined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u222	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u223	Mr President, Secretary of State and Secretary of State : In fact, only the fact that we are at the end of the legislative session justifies that three bills with such a significant and as sensitive scope as these have to be discussed under these conditions. We hope, and we are certain, that the short time available for debate in general does not erase the need for a consistent and in-depth debate on these matters in the field of expertise. With regard to two legislative proposals, which have to deal primarily with the transposition of data protection directives and which are in some way related to the General Data Protection Regulation but which concern two sensitive specific aspects relating to safety and judicial data, there are aspects which, of course, need to be well thought out, but above all, there is an aspect which would be important to reflect and which has to do with the references and the tasks assigned to them, passes redundancy to the National Data Protection Commission. The Government is proposing to allocate to the National Data Protection Commission very relevant and very heavy tasks and it is appropriate to know what we are talking about. It is because we are not talking to an institution with 500 employees; we are talking to an independent entity that works in an office next to it and that lives, precisely, alerting the Assembly of the Republic to the extreme scarcity of means with which it is obliged to work. Therefore, we must understand ourselves: either look at the National Data Protection Commission with the needs inherent in the tasks that they want to be given to it or, then, we are playing with serious things. The responsibilities that the National Data Protection Commission rightly intends to shoulder are not at least compatible with the size of the CNPD today, and this problem has to be tackled with all seriousness. On the other hand, one cannot vehemently move in the composition of the National Data Protection Commission. A bill appears to say that the National Data Protection Commission has to integrate a member appointed by the Higher Council of the Magistracy and another by the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, and this must be equationed as a whole. We cannot be detailing CNPD's composition by a number of novice diplomas. This has to be seen very carefully. However, from our point of view, the most complex issue is related to the data of air passengers. in this case, we are before a bill that truly enshrines a secure paranoia — it has no other name!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u225	Any citizen who travels by plane is fixed, it is fixed, i.e., there is a policing of airlines. The airlines are becoming police assistants and are collecting a set of data for all passengers, given that they are immediately migrating to a control office which is, if any, under the aegis of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, with no judicial authorities involved here at all. Then there is also the possibility of these data moving to third countries without the possibility of controlling its scope.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u226	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u227	But just to conclude, Mr President, what data are we talking about? We are talking about 19 items of passenger data related to issues such as, for example, knowing which agency you bought the plane ticket; we are talking about personal data relating to passengers, their companions, relating to a huge amount of data collected from all passengers and transmitted to the police in Portugal and to where the police authorities intend to send them. So we're really in front of a security paranoia...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u228	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u229	...that nothing justifies, that is disproportionate and that can only have our opposition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u230	With this intervention, we close the third point of our agenda. We move on to the fourth point, which consists of the general presentation and discussion of Bill No 122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Judiciary Judges. You have the floor for an initial intervention, Mr Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government is presenting to this House a relevant amendment to the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates. A change that is binding, with the first objective of conforming the Statute with management models and judicial organization experienced in 2008 and implemented, definitely in 2014. However, after three decades of publication of the first version of the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates, it became clear that a more comprehensive intervention would be justified. An intervention to update the principles that shaped the statutory laws of 77 and 85, these laws that set the framework of the democratic judiciary, adapting it to the circumstances of our time. In sum, necessarily tight, it is possible to summarize the three matrix ideas of the changes now presented in three vectors. The first is, as I think it could only be, the strengthening of the structural principles of independence and impartiality of judicial judges. The revision to which we proceed has always been guided by the purpose of sedimentating the structural principles of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. in this context, the guarantees relating to the freedom of judges before any instructions from other bodies, reaffirm their exclusive link to the Constitution and the law and reconcile the constitutional principle of independence, worth without any reservation in the field of judicial function, with the existence of instruments and management measures that relate not already to the administration of justice but to the sound administration of the justice service. To this end, it is precisely clarified the perimeter of the competence of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, as well as of the judges presidents of the districts, restricting them to matters outside the jurisdictional performance. At the same time, the conditions of internal mobility of judges are clarified outside the context of movements. The second vector is the reformulation of the evaluation system and disciplinary procedure. As regards evaluation, a more vigilant and pedagogical model was chosen at the beginning of the career of judges, by the obligation to carry out an inspection action at the end of the first year of the performance of duties. An inspection action that will culminate with an assessment, positive or negative, and in this latter hypothesis, corrective measures are adopted, the results of which will be reassessed, after which it is one year. Considering the current model of judicial organization and the importance it attaches to specialization, the principle of assessments was realized, preferably, by judges with specific experience in the areas of jurisdiction of the courts and the judges inspecting. In the field of discipline, and in an innovative way, the duties of the judicial magistrates, as well as the behaviours that may constitute errors and the penalties that they have to bear, are further densified. It is also here a way to ensure more and better predictability, strengthening the dimension of autonomy. Defence guarantees were strengthened in cases where more serious penalties were applied, ensuring the most effective contradiction with the public hearing of the visa. from the point of view of the working method and methodology, we chose to integrate the various dimensions of the Statute into a single instrument, making it, as far as possible, self-sufficient, in a logic of completeness, thus avoiding the systematic subsidiary application of other diplomas. To this end, in addition to empowering, as has already been mentioned, the duties and the densification of the infringements, the whole disciplinary procedure is density, other matters, such as the internal mobility assumptions, the prolonged absence by leave or time and the vicissitudes of the exercise of office in the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, are also regulated. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it summarizes the essential part of the intervention to which the Government has taken. I would like to point out today that, unfortunately, it is impossible to fully reconcile positions in the remuneration dimension of the Statute, in the other areas there has been a very broad consensus with the institutional partners of the Government in the legislative process, as it recognises, in fact, the direction of the Trade Union Association of the Portuguese Judges in its opinion which it has issued in due course. I conclude by saying that if you ask me whether, with these amendments, the effective conditions of independence and impartiality of the Portuguese judges and the courts have improved, I do not hesitate to answer yes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u232	Mrs. Minister, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u233	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u234	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u235	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by congratulating you on the presentation of this proposal, a proposal which, strictly speaking, should have accompanied the judicial reorganization carried out by Law No 62/2013 and which comes with five years' delay. Above all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate her on having presented to the House a bill that objectively reinforces the independence of the judicial magistrates and on which, in fact, they themselves, through their union association, in open letter, addressed to the Prime Minister, stated, and I quote, "We recognize that, in central concerns, related to the defence of the independence of judges, the negotiations have been successful. Do not keep on seeking. ” As we all know, however, the Constitution assigns the matter to the Statute of the Judicial Judges between those in which the reservation of the competence of the Assembly of the Republic is absolute. In other words, it is the Assembly of the Republic, and the most sovereign body, which is responsible for legislating here. The same is true of the fact that no matter relating to this Statute is excluded or subtracted from Parliament's legislative intervention. It is therefore clear, therefore, that the Members of the Socialist Party will be available to consider all matters relating to the Statute of the Judicial Judges. But with the same meridian clarity, we reaffirm that this comprehensive and unqualified openness to the debate does not legitimize any other interpretation than the obvious one: the PS will weigh and support, in the field of specialty, all reasonable proposals with which it is faced and reject all those of which it disagrees and, as always, without any conditions. Mr Minister, this proposal for a law comes to Parliament with no amendments to the remuneration status of judges. Now, what has been the main complaint made by the judges, I would say almost the only one, is that it is related to what they qualify as an almost total review of the remuneration differences between first instance judges and judges of the higher courts. to which we are told, this argument, which is objectively evident, stems from the submission of the judges' maturity to a limit at the top, limits that corresponding to the Prime Minister's maturity. What I ask you, Mrs Minister, is whether this is indeed the reason for this examination and, above all, whether the reason for this limit continues to justify today as a criterion for limiting the maturity of judicial judges. The second question, and this is very precise, relates to the amendments introduced in the proposal to the retirement scheme. I wonder whether, unlike what is contained in the bill, it would be no longer appropriate to maintain the application of the current regime to judges who meet the requirements necessary for the acquisition of this condition on the date of entry into force of the law and not only those who are already retired on that date. I believe that, for the stability of the body of the higher courts, this solution would be recommended, but as always, I look forward to its answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u236	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the preparation of this Statute of the Judicial Magistrates, dialogue with the representative structures of the judiciary was essential. But it is clear that this dialogue has always stood at the door of whatever it is of a remunerative nature. This despite the fact that the judges have always publicly shown that they are opening up to a phased implementation of the suggested remuneration changes and other amendments, such as that of the compensation allowance for remuneration supplement with differentiation of amounts between bodies, and of all this having a virtually zero budgetary impact. However, to think that it is possible to have a satisfactory status without touching on the issue of remuneration is to engage in a pretense. Of course, because remuneration status is an essential component of the general statute. And it cannot be pretended that it is not true that the overwhelming majority of the judges achieve a very close remuneration from the top of the career at the end of a few years and then, over many years, they stay until they rise to the Court of Auditors and, when that happens, they have a maturity that differs from that previously taken in less than 100 €. This is incomprehensible, this is unfair, this is demotivating. We will certainly be in agreement with this assessment, with the aggravating, in fact, of the judge president of the district, figure created by the 2014 reform, to take a global maturity higher than that taken by the judges of the higher courts. Mr. Minister, a motivating and step-by-step salary is, from the point of view of the Left Block, an indispensable condition for a judiciary with a performance in accordance with the requirements of a rule of law of today. Allow me, therefore, to put my question as follows: do you think the Minister that it is necessary to give up the requalification of the IP3 so that the remuneration status of the judicial magistrates is updated as should be... [[PSD laughter.]] ...or do you think we're all Centeno and, therefore, there's nothing to do? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u238	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that the PSD welcomes the fact that, of the more than 10 working groups that your Ministry has set up in this legislature, at least one of them — and the only one so far — has produced some kind of result, that is, this proposal that we are discussing today. It is that the Minister had promised the judicial magistrates that she would have the new statute ready in January and the truth is that we are already in mid-2018 and only now begins the discussion of this matter. Mr. Minister, it has been so long and after all the promised deadlines, will there now be a statute containing the principles negotiated with the judicial magistrates? It is because of their statements that nobody likes them. Mr Minister, after careful analysis of the proposed statute, the PSD is concerned — indeed, very concerned — about various aspects of this diploma, and, of the various concerns that we are concerned about, I leave it to you now, two or three that seem relevant to us. Of course, the fact that they have eliminated the rule by which the selected contestants publicly defend their curricula before the jury, now passing the assessment of the curricula to be made « without the jury leaving the secretary », let us say, and without the candidate publicly defending their curriculum. Interestingly, Madam Minister, the Government does not terminate this rule of public defense of curricula by candidates to the Supreme Court. What is the reason for this differentiation? And what justifies the elimination of the public defence of the curriculum of candidates to the courts of the relationship, keeping this rule in relation to candidates to the Supreme Court of Justice? With regard to the invitation to tender for access to the Courts of the Report, why did the Government delete the rule that « The final graduation of the judges is done in accordance with the relative merit of the competitors, taking into account, by 40 %, the curricular evaluation, as provided for in the previous paragraph, and by 60 %, the previous classifications of service, preferring in the event of equal treatment the judge with more seniority », to the detriment of the performance assessment? Without this rule, there is no risk of giving prevalence to those who have less dedicated themselves to the effective exercise of the judicial function and invest more in their curriculum improvement, disabling the constitutional option, of the "predomence of the merit criterion"? Mr. Minister, in a society that should be characterized by meritocracy, how does the Government explain the option to devalue the role of merit lawyers, hindering their access to the Supreme Court, raising from 20 to 30 years of exclusive or successive professional activity in university or counseling? How did one fifth of the vacancies fail to ensure that it was necessarily filled by lawyers of recognized merit, and could not be filled out by other candidates, as is the case today? Why does the Government devalue jurists by making it difficult for them to access the Supreme Court of Justice? Mr Minister, in this diploma we are discussing today, within the powers of the Higher Council of Magistracy, has been introduced the competence to « issue appropriate instructions for the proper execution and uniformity of the judicial service, without prejudice to the independence of the judges ». This possibility, that the Supreme Council of Justice may issue circulars to give instructions to the judges, will it not itself be an attack on the principle of the independence of the judges? This is, in the PSD's view, highly controversial and we want to know whether or not the government is considering this issue. Madam Minister, I would finally like to tell you the following: you spoke in independence and impartiality, but the truth is that all the organizations linked to the sector believe that it is not one thing or another. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u240	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions. As Mr Neto Brandão has said, Parliament is of course the largest and most competent to decide, in the end, all the matters that this Statute covers, whether they are in the dimension of independence, or in other dimensions which may possibly arise here. With regard to remuneration issues, I would like to say that the Government is not and has never been different from the concerns expressed by both the honourable Members. Judicial magistrates or the Public Prosecutor's Office, both for the other professions that form part of the justice system. Since the beginning of the discussion of this diploma, we have had the concern to express what our limits would be in terms of negotiation. It was clear from the outset that the tables in which we were operating and, irrespective of why we could attend the demands of the Members. Judges, it is important to say what the Government did in this regard, because on the one hand the Government removed the court that was affecting the generality of workers and also the judiciary and the Public Ministry and, on the other hand, in the State Budget for 2018 it was eliminated the 20 % cut that still affected the compensation supplement, which resulted from the negotiation between the Government and trade union structures and the Statute was resumed the compensation supplement for accumulation of functions, which had been eliminated in 2014. Therefore, we cannot say precisely that this matter has been closed. We have discussed intensely all the matters, we have had extensive and productive meetings and an objective reading of what the Association of the Portuguese Judges’ Union says — that I do not want to reproduce so as not to take too long — confirms exactly that. We discussed everything, there were points on which we did not agree, but it was always with complete frankness that things were treated. The government has studied all the hypotheses and considered that there are no conditions to go further. They ask me if it is possible to break the roof. I would say yes, it will probably be possible to break the ceiling, but it will obviously depend not only on the government but, above all, on Parliament's definition of a model in which it is possible, through the breakdown of the ceiling, to find another balance. But this also presupposes other balances, and I would like to draw attention to the following: while understanding the question of the crushing to which we refer, if we look at the international indicators, what we have to do is that, at the level of the higher courts, Portugal compares well with the European courts. In what does not compare well it is at the level of the entries. So here we have exactly the reverse problem, although I understand that the buffering above ends, in practice, by causing the quality of access to be lost. As far as remuneration issues in general are concerned, I would say that surely the Government in this area can do little and the remuneration of the holders of sovereign bodies is a matter which will certainly have to be faced in Parliament and with great courage in relation to all the sovereign bodies. And I have no doubt that, with the evolution that things know, with the evolution that the national economy knows, it will be possible, not too long, for Parliament to deal with these issues in its entirety, thus resolving not only the problems raised at the level of the honourable Members. Judicial magistrates as well as the problems raised at the level of the other sovereign bodies, if, of course, they understand that this is the priority. As for choices between IP3 and the salaries of Mr. Judicial magistrates, I do not do them, they are not my competence, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u242	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u243	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The amendment of the Statute of the Judiciary Judges was a long time ago imperative. The changes required by the constant need for updating were added to the disastrous management of the link between review of the judicial organization and the status of the different actors of the system during the right-wing government. The first note of our intervention is therefore to underline the inexcusable delay in this amendment which makes it even more indisputable now the delay in amending the statutes of the Public Prosecutor and of judicial officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u245	We have recently stressed the crucial importance of the remuneration dimension in a statute appropriate to the requirements of the rule of law in our time. In addition to this dimension, there are two others of this Statute which deserve very particular attention from the Left Block. The first of these dimensions is a scrupulous guarantee of the independence of judges. There are several ways to condition this independence. Not all are frontal and assumed and therefore easier to report as such. That which is implied in this Statute—and that the Left Block will fight, from the outset, by proposing amendments to this diploma in the specialty—is the one that comes in the madness of the glamorous management fashion. On the pretext of setting management criteria, from procedural objectives to strategic objectives, the proposal embarks on a dangerous examination of the unique requirements of what must be a court in a rule of law and what should be the space of procedural conduct by a judge in that framework. This management ideology that looks at a court, a nurse or a social security desk, and what you see are only anonymous and uncharacteristic flows of inputs and outputs and that aims to manage them according to the same criteria without meeting their unique nature and the criteria that arise from it, confuses everything and generates problems instead of solutions. It confuses procedural management and court management, for example. Think of one without taking care to establish a procedural quota and crowns this understanding with the allocation of powers to the judge of the county court—to be chosen more in a way that may be discretionary and exclusively by the Supreme Council—of powers that can in practice prove to be of true procedural management, when it should only be the management of the court. It is true that, with regard to the initial versions, the proposal presented here today is more prudent in this regard, we recognise it. But it is important to strengthen the guarantee that no processing priorities or procedural movement logics will prevail that do not result solely from the law and will not be left in the availability of the county judge or the Superior Council to set these criteria. It's important to watch this. Without this guarantee, there will always be the risk, unacceptable in a rule of law, of managerial indications of priority allocation to processes or types of situations to the detriment of others, which would be unacceptable. This obviously undermines the independence of the judges. The second area of concern of the Left Block is that of the concrete way in which this proposal is equalized the disciplinary responsibility of judges. There is, of course, no repudiation for disciplinary action—let this be clear—that is not the problem. It is indeed a proposal for a Statute which, to a large extent, establishes a disciplinary regime without properly implementing the illegals that may generate its application. And it is also a disciplinary responsibility that can be triggered by delays, without simultaneously fixing procedural quotas or at least reference volumes. The danger of disciplinary action thus means, in practice, an administrative conditioning of the performance of judicial function is a danger that we cannot fail to point out. It is true that the negotiation between the government and the magistrates has made it possible to prevent major perversions. Even so, the Left Block will combat these risks of perversion and, in the specialty, we will present proposals that aim at achieving, in a more precise way, the wrongful and consecrated duty of the judges to cooperate with the Court's managing bodies which strictly limit the management and organisational matters of the court, without ever affecting the procedural process. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, I conclude by saying that the Statute of the Judiciary Judges is, for us, a crucial element for the defence of the rule of law, as are the statutes of the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and of the judicial officials, who are delaying. It is as an essential ingredient for the rule of law that the Block of the Left considers this Statute, with the firm conviction that professional status, functional status and remuneration are part of the same unit. Only this integrated vision will create conditions for a motivated, rigorous and excellent performance by judges and judges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u246	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u247	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. That is why we are going to fight in the continuation of the legislative work to which we are going. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u248	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u249	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The first word, Minister, is to be welcomed that we have finally started the discussion on the Statute of the Judicial Judges. This is a pressing matter that we have spoken several times and wait to see the light of the day for years. As I said recently, it is essential to comply with the judicial reform initiated in 2013, which, moreover, was subsequently announced and which, after three years of term, finally appears and we rejoice in this. I would also like to say, Mrs. Minister, that she appears late, she appears badly on some subjects and appears frustrating the most elementary expectations. Not that it's a surprise, because it really isn't. The government's wager in justice exists in a very scattered way, as we have discussed several times, and in the few things in which it is visible it is certainly not in this matter. I must recall a criticism made by the PS in its electoral programme to the former Government — it is written in all the words: « PSD / CDS governance in the area of justice, at that time, has always preferred to focus on legal professions. This is a criticism that, for us, is a fulfillment that leaves the naked a very clear political option and that VV. Ex. hasn't been tired of practicing. For VV. For example, judicial operators and all justice professionals are accessories, they are lateral and, much worse, they are devalued and forgotten by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u250	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, thank you for giving me a moment. I was asking the ladies. Members who created conditions so that we could hear the honourable Member as we should hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that this is a technical matter, but it is an important matter for the country and it has been devalued successively. I told you, Mrs Minister, that when we devalue central parts of any system — people — we devalue all this system, because the system is made precisely with these people. It is not only online, in the paperless world, which reduces the intervention of the Ministry of Justice, that justice has to work. Moreover, in recent years the Minister has lived with a sword on her head—I mean the strikes announced and that the Minister has been avoiding 25. the hour— whose blade is getting closer and closer. Justice officers, prison guards, conservatives and notaries and also judicial magistrates, all without exception, have already threatened with strike. Some of them have already practiced it and have fulfilled it and, to assess by the state of the art, they will accomplish even more. this time, no longer the Left Block, the PCP or the Greens can hide and justify the unjustifiable. [[Hey!]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u252	They will certainly go on the streets, outraged, pouring tears of crocodiles, pretending that they are next to them, that they ignore, voting budget after budget, next to the government, who came to save people and who are, after all, disregarding them. With a difference that is not of mere mereness, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: everyone starts to realize that whoever slaps them on their backs is the one who, next to the government, leaves them forgotten, doing exactly the opposite of what they say. They vote and then they will tell the people that they are against what they just voted for. Today we have heard a lot of talk about political hypocrisy, which would be relevant, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it wasn't serious. The least they are asked to look at the mirror and see where it is and how far political hypocrisy can come: it is yours and it is not ours. [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u253	It's the taxpayer's party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u254	The Statute of the Judges is precisely on this foot. From that point on, because he has advanced by leaving the Statute of the Magistrates of the Public Ministry, which creates serious and worrying distortions, even by symmetry of some of these matters, which should be treated simultaneously. If the CDS acted like VV. For example, the fate of this Statute was easy: it would go directly to the trash can, like VV. For example, they usually do with our initiatives. But the CDS is not in political life to scream at one thing and do another, it is in political life to, with seriousness and responsibility, solve problems. This Statute does not resolve essential questions and even worsens some such as: the question of the natural judge, which is a question that raises serious questions of constitutionality and that we will have to examine in the specialty; the exemption from the evaluation of judges when noted with "Very Good" is a question that we will also have to see, because it does not seem to us to be curial that they are dispensed with again when they have "Very Good" ; the scarce resources with which the Supreme Council of Magistracy will have to deal with the new powers that are committed to it. All these matters, Mrs Minister, may be reviewed, but the understanding of the CDS, however, is that we should finally start this discussion and initiate it seriously, improving what is not right and abolishing what is wrong. Now the Statute of the Judges would be a real irresponsibility and we must therefore try, firstly, to take it to a good port. We have this seriousness, the seriousness to discuss, the seriousness to do what is best for the entire agent. Allow me to tell you, Mrs Minister, that if we were to drop you now, the Minister could wash her hands and say "we tried, but we did not succeed", but that is not what the CDS will let her do. Let us all, together, try to make this Statute, finally, a reality and be excommunicated from the weaknesses it has and is completed with the omissions it does not have. Mr President, the background noise in the Chamber continues, but I would like to leave another note on the progress of judges' careers, which is, of course, at the head of the serious omissions that the Government and the majority have...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u255	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, please excuse me. I didn't want to remind you again. Members and also the people who are in the galleries that all members of this Parliament have the right to be heard with respect which is due to the role of popular representation they have. It's sad that I have to make this request a second time. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u256	Mr. President, I understand, but I regret that. I would tell you, Mrs Minister, that the question of the progress of judges' careers is, of course, at the head of the omissions which this Statute does not resolve. In fact, we all remember the promise made in September by the PS that the problem of progress would be solved here in Parliament. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has just said that this question would be dealt with here. It is curious and strange that the remuneration issue has to be dealt with by Parliament and not by the government, but ultimately. If it is for Parliament that it has to be dealt with, then we will do and we will deal with it in Parliament, but we know that there was obviously no such solution in the government. We have repeatedly urged the Minister to answer this question and several times the Minister has given us the same answer: "I have no room, I have no mandate to resolve it and therefore you will have to solve this problem. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is no longer strange, but here we will be to solve the problem, in the hope that — and that is why we do not lead this Statute — the majority that supports the Government — PS, Bloc, CCP and The Greens — will take on and fulfill this promise and that at least « be once Centeno », since the Minister can expect nothing more. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u257	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister and Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: This bill arises with the purpose of adjusting the Statute of Judicial Judges to the 2013 judicial reorganization, enabling their reciprocal congruence. It will be enough for all of us to recognize that this debate should have taken place for several years. As explicitly stated in the explanatory statement, the proposal for a review does not propose any amendments to the remuneration issues. We note, however, that it is true, among others, that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy has reached the Assembly of the Republic, not to follow any suggestion that the entry into the judicial office today may correspond to an option by sacrifice, which, as indeed the Minister of Justice has recently done, has made any international comparison with the weighting of its national average maturity of immediate denial, but to recognise that the imposition of a wage ceiling, whose updating has been suspended for almost three decades, has led to an undesirable examination of the remuneration differences between the first instance and the higher courts, which will matter some day to review, but that the reason for the constraints in question has not exclusively affected the holders of that sovereignty. However, let us return to the content of the bill and to what it provides to strengthen the independence of judges. In fact, we can never talk about the judges and their Statute without talking about independence. Judicial independence is a basic principle of the political organization of democratic states, which indissociably unfolds not only in the governance and organization of the courts as a whole, but also in the status of each judge individually considered. Justice independence exists, let us emphasize it, as a guarantee to citizens and not as a mere professional or corporate interest. It is the independence of the judge that immunizes him, or, better said, allows him to immunize any pressures foreign to law and law, even if or above all when what he decides may collide with the feelings conveyed by any media or even claimed on the street by the voice of the people. If it has always been, or should it have been, this guarantee today assumes an added necessity in an era where the massive conditioning of public opinion, today fostered by cyberspace, is already an indisputable reality. Now, the independence of judges requires not only the irresponsibility and irresponsibility enshrined in the Constitution, it requires external independence, that is, before other powers, and internal independence, that is, before illegitimate intrusions from the corporate organization itself. However, as in the explanatory statement, and very well, it is stated, the principle of independence must apply without any reservation in the field of the substantively understood judicial function. It is therefore within an intransponible perimeter that it cannot fail to be precisely defined and contained within the administration of the justice service, which will understand the competences of the comarcas management bodies and, as well, the judiciary management body. In other words, it is the democratic principle of independence that, discussing itself eternally, we would say, with the no less democratic principle of accountability or accountability — what, in a word, the Anglo-Saxons so well define as accountability — comes to find their point of meeting or institutional balance in the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the judges must be left alone with the law — to use a happy image of a constitutional arrest — still it is to the law and to the values shaped there which must report the concrete weights in which judicial decisions are translated. If the judge is no longer, and well, the mere « mouth of the law», in the expression of Montesquieu, it is also no less true that, as the President of the Supreme Court recently reminded us, «in a function in which in each act he always dislikes someone, the judge will understand that only to be respected and appear to respect the principles that are beyond himself and his personal convictions. » Now, the new wording of Article 3. the, figuring on the role of the judiciary, comes to intensify this dimension and harmonize it better with the constitutional text. Innovative and also worthy of applause is the regulatory self-sufficiency found in this proposal for a Statute, exempting the subsidiary application, as so far, of the General Law on Public Works, consistent with the exercise of sovereignty functions. This also reinforces the independence of a sovereign power. The consecration expressed a new duty, that of urbanity, for example, not being truly innovative, is thus emphasizing the virtualities of adopting a proper behavior of the magistrates towards all the citizens they contact in the exercise of their duties. Strengthening the prestige of justice also goes this way. I conclude, Mr President, by saying: strengthening the principle of justice, this is an objective that must unite us all. For our part, we will always be available to contribute to strengthening the prestige of justice and thus to strengthening the rule of democratic law, seeking to achieve all the necessary consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u259	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u260	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : My first words are to welcome the fact that at last the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to discuss a bill on the Statute of Judicial Judges. This process has gone too far. Having had a judicial reform, it was supposed that the Statute of the Judiciary Judges had accompanied it and that, until the end of the previous legislature, there had been a bill to review it presented to this House. That did not happen and perhaps, if it had happened, we would now be confronted with the need to review what would have been done by the previous government. In any case, it did not happen, but this legislation is already in progress and therefore it was already more than time to come to this House a discussion which is intended to be in depth, and that it will be - certainly - given the nature and size of this bill. What is expected is that this debate, which will obviously no longer take place at this legislative session and which will have to be completed, is expected — at the beginning of next stage, it can also be accompanied by the discussion of the Statute of the Magistrates of the Public Prosecutor. It is therefore desirable not to waste too much time until the discussion of this Statute can begin in this House, which, as you know, has been the subject of public debate and also of debate among the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office themselves, who have devoted great attention to this matter. With regard to this proposal for a law before us, the fundamental question that is at stake is to approve a Statute of the Judicial Magistrates which effectively guarantees their independence as a basic stone, as the basis of the State itself of democratic law. The democratic rule of law is based primarily on the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the judges, the recognition of the principle that judges should only obey the law, because the Constitution effectively has the responsibility for them to apply justice on behalf of the people. Therefore, it is only to the law that judges must obey, and this has as a legal consequence the consecration of the principle of the natural judge, which cannot suffer any entourage here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u262	Therefore, the consecration of the independence of the judges' judgment, the guarantee of their immutability and the absolute guarantee of the natural judge are principles that cannot fail to be at the heart of our discussions. Then there is a problem, that, as it is usually said, nobody ignores that there is « an elephant in the middle of the room», and that it has to do with the structure of careers and the remuneration consequences of the organization of the various lanes. We know that this problem is transversal. And all the statutes that have been under discussion - we are now referring to the careers that are under the care of the Ministry of Justice - all of them have been barred from this problem. Mr. Minister says that the cuts that had been made by the previous government have been restored. They were actually in these careers as in others, but that is not what we are talking about. In other words, one thing is the replacement of the cuts that have been made—and indeed this replacement has been made—but, when we are discussing career statutes, we are discussing the remuneration consistency of the careers themselves, we are not discussing the replacement of cuts that have been made. And then, in fact, there's a problem. There is a problem about the career of judicial judges, as is the case with other careers within the Ministry of Justice, particularly within the Registers and notariate or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Obviously, there is this problem. Thus, when legislation on career statutes we must provide them with a remuneration consistency that avoids situations such as that which, unequivocally, occurs at the level of the judicial magistrates and which has to do with wage compression at the level of the career. This problem, in the proposal for a law, is obviously surrounded, assuming, of course, even in the explanatory statement, that we will abstain from the pay issue. The problem is that we cannot stay away from this eternally, with regard to this career and also with other careers, such as those of the Registers and Notariado, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police. Finally, for all of them, the definition of the statutes must be followed by a definition of the remuneration status which is consistent within their respective careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u264	We will have to face these problems, probably not directly with regard to the letter of this bill, which, in fact, has abstained from this problem, but the problem of underfinancing the justice system has to be tackled — that is the problem. Madam Minister, when we discuss here problems related to the justice system, when we discuss problems of the courts, judicial officials, judges, the prison system, we marvel at a fundamental issue, which is the question of underfunding the system, which is shocking. Therefore, when we discuss any matter of justice and we find the best intentions on the part of the Ministry of Justice, understanding the problems, but then we say that there is a financial problem that is unavoidable, we can say that, as long as this problem is not faced, while we do not assume that there is a demanding underfinancing of the justice system and that this has to be overcome, we will hardly solve any problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u265	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u266	I will finish, Mr. President. Let us, of course, face this debate with all commitment and with all seriousness, but let us not forget that there is a fundamental problem of the justice system that we cannot fail to face. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u267	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than one year after the expected, this initiative emerges. As is customary and natural, it is understood by some judicial operators and is criticized by others, in particular, and in the specific case, it is criticized by the direct recipients, who are the judges themselves, not so much by what is written there, but by what is not there. But that's where we're going. Before that, it is important to leave two notes here. The first to make it clear that the PSD will not be sensitive to initiatives motivated by exclusively corporate interests or logic. The second to show that the PSD will not support solutions that appear to be major advances, but that in practice they will eventually leave almost everything in it. Having said this, we all agree that the quality of the laws is essential, but even more important is the quality of those who apply the laws — the judges. Justice is worth much of what judges value. Demotivated, demobilized and unjustified judges are a passport for unproductive and ineffective justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u269	You know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u270	Well, this bill is about almost everything that concerns the role, retirement, holidays, failings, leave, reform and disciplinary regime of judges. But it leaves out a matter of enormous importance—and perhaps that is the original sin of the bill—which is the remuneration status and career progression. The government, with the contributions it received, solved what was easy and consensual and left for other « nuptials» — we hope it is not for the calendars — what was difficult and controversial. On difficult issues, the Minister says that the judges are even right. But then he says he has no money. And now it has just been said that the issue has not to be dealt with by the government — as if it were not the government managing the State budget — but must be resolved by the Assembly of the Republic. But, there, the Minister — honor be given to her — has always said the same from the beginning. He said — and made it consistent — that there was no money. There is a good lesson for Mr. Prime Minister, who, in the case of teachers, did exactly the opposite: he gave a word and then did not honor that word. [[Protests of PS Members.]] But there is something in this that is disturbing and that is, even, a paradox. At the same time, the Minister, while in the Land of the Peace, had « drawn the carpet » to the claims of the judicial magistrates, seemed to be undisturbable to the fact that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, on St. Benedict's Street, apparently too, gave a commitment by its Members that such claims would be resolved or, at least, that they would not be left out of the debate. Conclusion: Here, the Government and the Socialist Party have the ethical and moral duty and, more than that, they have even the political responsibility to solve the problem they have created. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u271	They can't take one hand and hit the other. You can't, in the Land of Peace, say no and say yes here. You have to understand! So much so that it was a promise from the Members of the Socialist Party — secondly it is read, and it has not been denied — that led the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges to conjure up the strike that had marked for the day of the autarchic elections. With this strategy, there was an advantage for the government and the country: the courts did not paralyze. But if you have created expectations for holders of a sovereign body, you are now obliged to be consistent and politically loyal to your word. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u272	Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are promises whose institutional weight the wind cannot carry. Therefore, you please resolve the breach in which you have moved. This is your great challenge. If they don't, they have to assume that they cheated the judges or, then, that they went beyond what they could go. But one thing is certain: we all understand the need for wage ceilings—at least in this case—but no one understands—and that is why this debate has to be resumed—that from the top of the first instance to the disembarking judge there is a difference of net remuneration of €27, 27; or that there is a difference of net remuneration for counsellors of €84, €13; or that of the judges of the administrative and fiscal courts of five years old and of « Good», for counsellors of the courts there is a difference of €111, €04.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u273	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u274	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD has already shown that it is available to be an active part of a real reform of justice, which covers this and other area. This bill made its way, there is no doubt, but it has not come to an end. This proposal, Mrs Minister, which does not hurt to tell you, is still the mirror of a government that is acting a little on a strike of zeal, which does not deal with but does not deal with, which does not resolve but tries, and which I think only has to win if it is also available for the cause of justice, which is a national cause, to receive the contributions of all parties, in particular the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u275	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u276	Very fast, Mr. President. It is only to reaffirm what has become clear, i.e. that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available to discuss all matters. But I would like to remind Mr Peixoto, who spoke in « word», that the Association of the Union of Portuguese Judges, in the previous legislature, broke institutionally relations with the then Minister of Justice, accusing her of having promised something and then having come to say exactly the opposite and of having created this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u277	Thank you for your concission, Mr. Ended the discussion, generally of Bill No 122 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), we moved on to the general debate of Bill No. 879 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the abolition of bull races in Portugal ( NAP ). To present the initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most true moral test of humanity lies in the relationship we maintain with those who are at our mercy, those who have no power. And this is precisely where we find the biggest defeat of the bull maquis. Tauromachy consists of the exhibition of the most cowardly abject that the human species is capable: the excrement of fun with fragility and dependence on others. The fact is that, as far as the relationship with animals is concerned and, more carefully and euphemistic than the choice of words, there is no way to circumvent the fact that the bull races call into question the life and integrity of the animals involved. In the absence of convincing arguments, there is nothing left to the Tauromachic sector than to repeat the fallacy that these manifestations are an integral part of Portuguese cultural heritage. Stabbed by the time most people could not read or write, they try to make us believe that extreme violence of tearing flesh to an animal and making it spitting blood is part of our identity. Culture, as a complex system of codes and customs that form the heritage of a community, cannot alone constitute the basis for legitimizing practices that no longer sympathize with our knowledge, especially when inheritance is a massacre. our heritage, as a people, is part of slavery, colonization, Inquisition, the death penalty, whaling or patriarchal subjugation of women, values and practices that have been abandoned and have completely lost their space, not deserveing us today any welcome. All traditions must be subject to the ethical critique of societies. And the legislator is responsible for changing the law when the change of consciences so requires. The country calls for a civilizational and ethical evolution in this matter, and traditions reflect the degree of evolution of a society, so it is no longer acceptable that the argument of tradition continues to serve to perpetuate the culture of brutality and blood that lives in the arenas. We all have many ways to satisfy our right to culture without having to mistreat and brutalize animals. Have the political class the courage to take on the national design of non-violence. [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u279	The public in the galleries cannot speak. Don't make me evacuate the galleries! However, I would like to clarify: as you know, especially those who participated in the Conference of Leaders, it was decided that, in this kind of agendas, the normal presentation time will be used and then 2 minutes at the closing stage. It is only a short time ago — I have only done so at the end and therefore I now maintain the same rule — in the previous debate, the three minutes of the government were immediately added 2 minutes by the services, although responsibility is obviously mine. It must be clear that in these debates there is time for presentation and time for closure, this time which should not join the initial intervention, as happened in the previous debate. For the sake of equality of criteria, this procedure also applies in this debate, but it has to end. In the meantime, the Bureau does not record a request for a word for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u280	Mr President, I call for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u281	You have the floor, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The performances have evolved over the ages. Barbarian shows were no longer having public and social acceptance for the exploitation and violence they contained, either in arenas or in bizarre shows.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u284	Today, we speak of another evolution in the world of the show and how we view violence against animals. Today it is no longer socially acceptable, scientifically and politically, violence against animals, much less in human entertainment. That is simply this, and that is the only thing we are dealing with in this plenary, and that is also our proposal to abolish this violence. In fact, we affirm and will continue to say that inflicting pain on a repeated animal and deliberately it is torture. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] However, we cannot fail to say that this debate has been amputated and that the scope of the discussion is clearly insufficient and simply proclaiming. We appreciate the fact that Mr André Silva brings the abolition of the bullfighting again the debate in this Chamber, but we regret that we do not foresee what will happen after that. For example, what will happen to animals that are currently being raised in the herds for the tournaments? Can they be sold for tours in Spain, suffering the same end as they would suffer in Portugal? Mr President, history is rich in minimalist laws that have brought serious consequences, which have lasted decades, because they do not foresee the effects of their application and transition. We also regret that the NAP has not allowed us to bring to play the proposals that the Left Block has about how to get there! These proposals, which we have already tabled here and which we know also follow as a way to abolish the bullfighting. We are talking about the proposals we have to abolish any public funding to the tourdas and to limit their television transmission. We regret that these proposals would bring us closer, and more effectively, to this common objective. In fact, society well demonstrates this, because fewer and fewer municipalities support the tourdas, and these have less and less spectators. This, Mr President, is an indication of an abolitionist path, the one that is ours and is also accompanied by society out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u286	In order to abolish it is necessary to understand what happens next to animals and people, and in this project it remains very short, but we are willing to contribute to the proposals of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u287	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Moreira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the draft law submitted by the NAP that determines the abolition of bull races. Bullfighting and bullfighting have repeatedly sparked debates in this Parliament and in society, so we reiterate the position we have taken. The CFP fully respects the sensitivity of those who do not agree with the Tauromachia or, even those who reject it, as it believes that what people feel is an integral part of their cultural identity, their cultural, minority or majority specificities, which do not address the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. Respecting cultural diversity implies recognizing cultural expressions different from themselves and recognizing the universality of rights. The expressions of popular culture, such as the generality of the elements of human culture, are not immutable and are, themselves, the product of social life. Some lose strength and disappear, others win it and project themselves. Only because they exist or have existed does not mean that traditions should be maintained, promoted or restored, but to determine by law their prohibition already means something different. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u289	in order to prohibit what does not recognize as an integral part of its own cultural identity, the NAP does not admit that there are other cultures, identities, traditions, sensibilities than its own. He only admits his own cultural and moral standards and wants to impose them. He intends to impose his world vision on others, if possible by law and force. It is necessary to underline this aspect, that of the imposition of the law by force, not forgetting the history of the matter, in particular by recalling the incidents that occurred in Barrancos in the year 2000 following the attempt to impose by force a similar prohibition. Those incidents demonstrated that the transformation of practices that people feel as part of their cultural identity into police-related problems, because of the prohibition, is only a factor of more serious conflicts and social confrontations. The prohibition of those practices led to their illegality and led to the police repression of the population, but did not allow them to disappear from the matrix of their popular culture, from their collective community experience. Recalling all of this, it is necessary to confront the NAP with what it proposes and its consequences. in order to impose the legal prohibition of bull races, the NAP does not merely try to impose that standardized and uniformizing cultural vision of the world. Defending the ban, the NAP defends its consequences, including the opening of a direct conflict with entire communities and, again, the attempt to enforce the law by force with the corresponding repression of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u291	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u292	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP recognises the attachment of many Portuguese and many communities in our country to bullomachia, which consider it an integral part of popular culture, yet not ignoring the concerns and opinions against other sectors of society. Such division of views does not seem to us to be resolved by virtue of the legal prohibition of these practices. We understand that the path to be taken is respect for cultural diversity and that of the effective accountability of the State in promoting a healthier relationship between animals and human beings, accompanied by a pedagogical action with the aim of sensitizing citizens, in particular children and young people, to the importance of animal welfare and its effective protection. [[PCP and PS, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u293	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joel Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill currently under discussion concerns a subject which has been discussed in this Parliament several times, although it has not been proposed in terms of the abolition of the legislation today. In the context of a plural society, democratic, diverse, with difficulty, this rush will be understood, without care, without due weighting, imposing on the whole society what is an incomplete vision of the world. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, Tauromáchi shows fall within specific legislation and take particular emphasis on the artistic-cultural level and on the affirmation of their local economies. The legislative framework exists and is current. It is neither appropriate nor appropriate to make amendments, but one more matter which raises different opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u295	Can only be made changes when the opinion is unanimous? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u296	It is also important to highlight the progress that has been made in Portugal in the field of the legal protection of animals. The PSD considers that the different actors in the show have been positively adapting to the regulatory frameworks that were implemented in 2014 and 2015 respectively in this area. In this regard, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we read in the explanatory statement of the draft law of the NAP that according to statistics, the number of shows in Portugal has been decreasing due to the growing disinterest of Portuguese citizens by tourists. On the other hand, it is emphasized in the weakened state of the Tauromachy and in the understanding that this is a marked and repeated decline activity. We are not sure that these numbers are true and that these assertions correspond to reality, but let's imagine that. Why, then, so quickly, so radicalism, so much need to abolish, by legislative means, what, according to the diploma itself, is in decline and that would not need a legislator to, by the will of society, naturally continue the same effect? Oh, my God! Does it make sense to open a wound against this cultural manifestation? [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[Protests of BE Members.]] Mr President, the PSD has nothing against the public debate on this subject, on the contrary, but it does not fail to recognize that the Tauromachic events constitute a historical, cultural, social and economic legacy that remains of great relevance to several municipalities and regions of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u297	It's environmental! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u298	This recognition prevails in our understanding of the matter. The PSD has always defended him, and it is his purpose, to walk towards safeguarding the public interest, which goes through the harmonization of the interests of the various actors in the Tauromachic show and the defense of animal welfare. We will continue to do so in moderation, respecting the sense of the community, and therefore we will vote against the NAP proposal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u299	I have the floor, for an intervention, by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debates on bullfighting usually draw warm and passionate discussions with you, and this proposal for a NAP law is an example. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, faithful to its principles of intransigent defence of freedom, accepts and respects all positions, understanding that they are all natural and legitimate in democracy, but we have already expressed our disagreement with the NAP project. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] A radical ban project that does not respect the cultural identity of a significant part of our territory cannot and should not accept the approval of this House. Obviously, we understand those who do not see themselves in these cultural manifestations, but their prohibition is not based on the principles of tolerance and freedom, and we believe that it does not correspond to the feeling of the majority of the Portuguese community who, regardless of whether they attend these shows or not, respects all kinds of positions. We also stress that the Tauromachy is classified as an integral part of Portuguese popular culture, classified and recognized by legislative instrument, which imposes on the State a duty that is constitutionally protected, the duty to protect the culture. To radically prohibit tauromachy would lead to divisions in the national community, which are not, at all, desirable, in addition to causing economic and employment impacts, which, not being the centre of decision-making, cannot be neglected. Those who know the national territory know the importance of this activity in many regions of the country, such as — and necessarily, among others — the Ribatejo, from which I am natural, the Alentejo, the Azores or the districts of Lisbon and Setúbal. We do not believe in the approval of the NAP proposal, and we are convinced that, in the event of its approval, it would lead to unnecessary conflicts that would no longer do than put Portuguese against Portuguese, particularly in large regions of our own country or in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, where people would not understand that this Parliament decided against its ancestral traditions. What is under discussion today is not whether or not we like touring, but only if we respect those who like and want to continue and preserve this tradition. This is the discussion that we must have with clarity and without radicalism. The Socialist Party, as the founding party of our democracy, is where it has always been, on the side of freedom and tolerance, and therefore our disagreement and vote against this project. [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u301	On behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens start by highlighting two facts. The first is that the touradas have, undeniably, a cultural rooting. The question is to reflect to what extent this cultural aspect applies to itself to sustain and exalt a spectacle with characteristics of effective violence. The second point to point out is that the tourdas are a violent spectacle and that inevitably inflicts real and visible suffering on the bull. This characteristic of violence should already have given them at least its proper place in television broadcasts: either not being broadcast or classified for 18 years, with the consequences arising there in terms of restrictions and times, as proposed by the Greens at the Assembly of the Republic in 2012. This violence of the Tauromachic spectacle is generally recognized. I recall that in 2010 a Member of the CDS, defender of the touradas, assumed here, in the plenary, that the touradas may be a barbaric fun or even incite unjustified violence. The position of the Greens has been clear for many years: the Greens assume that a path should be taken that does not promote, not encourage the Tauromachic spectacle. One of the contributions the Greens made in this regard was the presentation of a very concrete proposal for the end of public support for Tauromachic activities. Unfortunately, this Green DOS proposal has been dropped in the Assembly of the Republic. One thing is right, ladies and gentlemen. Members: more and more Portuguese become non-adapted by the tourdas and, therefore, the Tauromáchicus show has been losing public. The Greens believe that debate, citizens' awareness and awareness of the characteristics of the tourdas are crucial so that there will be no more, indeed, widespread adherence to a spectacle of this nature and with these characteristics, because, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the cultural dimensions of societies are also changing, as is clear. The path of pedagogy and sensitization is perhaps, in the perspective of the Greens, the one that is even more effective. On the draft law currently under discussion, we would like to say that the position we will take in the vote is our manifestation of willingness to discuss this matter in the field of expertise. Therefore, at this moment, we are discussing it generally, which can lead to a discussion in the specialty, and the Greens express their willingness to carry it out. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u303	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this NAP project, I want to say something very simple and very direct: this project has a merit, which is to have practically a single point, a single article, which says 'we will ban the tourdas' — end point! — and, therefore, having a single article, it is also easy for us to answer in one word: no! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And for us, not for a very simple reason: « the Portuguese race is a unique manifestation of the originality of the Lusa culture » — I am not saying that it is the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ). It's a fact, and so it is! [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the consent of the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block, it should be said that what is at stake is not — as I have even seen in the media — a discussion between those who, like the PAN, defend a more or less animalistic doctrine and those who are fans and defend the Portuguese race. That's not what's at stake! What is at stake is a discussion between those who in Portugal intend to ban the bullfight and those who in Portugal understand that the bullfight can and should continue. That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u305	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u306	For example, in this Parliamentary Group, there are those who are in love, there are those who are not in love, there are those who, like me, have not been in a bull race for many years and have not been moving for many years, there are those who are even critical of the bull races, but none of us believe that they should be banned. That is why, regardless of everyone's opinion, we will all vote against it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] That is the debate, which would be resolved here, but let us also review your arguments, Mr André Silva. I would not, even in your first argument, enter which is a successive quotation of encyclicals — some of which of the time of the Inquisition, Mr President! Watch out for the encyclicals you choose, watch out for the encyclicals you intend to quote! But that is not so, even because you would better solve this issue if, instead of quoting encyclicals, you would claim Hinduism, because there, being the sacred cows, the principle would be solved by nature. [[Rice and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] The question, Mr President - and I leave it to you as a challenge - is this: with what right does you intend, from an opinion, from a prejudice and from a conception, to extinguish, condemn, to eliminate all an activity which, contrary to what you say, surely has a few tens of large farmers, dozens of tourmakers, dozens of airport workers, thousands of forklifts, entire populations? That is why 44 municipalities manifested themselves today against their proposal, because they understand that it is a way of life, a way of life in the rural world, a way of life that neither Mr. Deputies nor any habit, Lisboa or other, has the right to impose much of the country living in this reality. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP, PSD Members and PS Member Luís Moreira Testa.]] Those who live in this reality, Mr Deputies, know, moreover, an old phrase which comes from the Tauromachy and which you probably do not know, as you will not know much about this reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u307	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u308	I conclude, Mr President, with this phrase: "More horns starve! Do not keep on seeking. ” But, Mr President, condemning these people all who cannot live from what their means of life is absolutely unacceptable and would be an unacceptable horn of the NAP to condemn the Portuguese to what their veganism is. It is that, if there is violence against animals, there is also violence in the slaughter, there is violence in the hunt, so we would all have to adopt your diet, Mr André Silva. And converting us all to their veganism does not seem entirely acceptable to me. [[BE's protests.]] And, Mr President, do not use the number argument, because between half a million people who have attended the rounds and 80 % of the Portuguese people who are against the ban and their — how many? — 1, 39 % national, 1, 9 % in Lisbon, 5000 votes brought here, where is the majority? Let us be honest and rigorous from that point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u309	With regard to rigour, you have to finish, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u310	I shall finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u311	I should've done by now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u312	... saying that we are for diversity, we are against prohibition and we are not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing here and another in Vila Franca, we are not one thing here and another in Salvaterra de Magos! Don't! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[BE's protests.]] We're the same thing here, in Salvaterra or Vila Franca, we don't have two faces! I finish by quoting an author: Jacques Costeau, environmentalist, environmentalist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u313	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u314	It is as follows: « Only when the man overcomes death will the bull's party die» — Jacques Costeau, Member of Parliament, for his reflection. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PS and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u315	The Left Block wishes to use the time it still has before the end of the debate by Mr André Silva. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor, therefore, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems to us that what is under discussion is simple. Should we finish with the touradas? We say yes! Should we work for your end? We also say yes! And can we improve this proposal? We also say yes! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Any other argument used here is to maintain the barbershop and prevent progress in the most basic animal rights. The position of the Left Block as the Left Block is well known and has been taken in this Chamber, already several times. It's not the CDS that comes to tell us what we are and what animalists we are. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u317	To close this debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave four notes on this debate. Firstly, it is consensual in society and it is accepted by all Members who must be banned and condemned all unnecessary violence against animals — that is right in the law, that is what you have approved. For most Members, however, it is legitimate to violence animals as long as it is done in a arena, that the "supplyer" uses a brilliant fact and is accompanied by music. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Secondly, for most Members, the fact that the slaughter of animals is a practice that has arrived until 2018 is sufficient argument for dogmatically continuing to perpetuate the culture of violence and brutality. Thirdly, for most Members too, the value of the fallacious economic interests is above the ethical values and standards of an advanced society that respects the freedom of all. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u319	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u320	I end by telling all Members that they so often defend here, in this House and in these debates, to be progressive that no party standing next to the Tauromakia can ever say that it has caught the train of progress. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u321	Mrs. Members, completed the debate of Bill No 879 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we move on to the voting period, so I ask the services that prepare the electronic system for the quorum verification. Meanwhile, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make several ads to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill No 141 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2001 of 17 April, which regulates Law No 123 / 99 of 20 August, which defined the rules by which the Government supports cultural associationism, music and philharmonic bands ( ALRAM ), which falls to 12. the Commission. Bill No. 939 / XIII was also introduced ( 3. ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS and PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1753 / XIII ( 3 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Salzburg, Austria ( President of the HR ), 1754 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting of caulinos in the area of Bar regions ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards finding a solution that keeps the two day care centres available and the three ATLs of the Board of Freguesia of the Historic Centre of Porto ( BE ), which goes down to 10. the Commission, and 1758 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Granting of National Pantheon honors to President Mário Soares ( PS and PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u323	I thank Secretary Duarte Pacheco for reading this file. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then check the quorum for discussion to proceed with the vote. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 208 presences, to which Mr Paulo Sá's presence of the CFP is added, and 209 Members are present, and so we have quorum to vote. Let's start with vote No 585 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Afonso Cautela, presented by the NAP and subscribed by PS Members. I ask the Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Afonso Cuatela was born in Ferreira do Alentejo in 1933, and was a primary school teacher in the 1950s. In 1960, he published his first book of poetry, Dead Space, followed by The Nariz ( 1961 ). With Serafim Ferreira organized the Portuguese Poetry of Post-War ( 1945 - 1965 ) and, with Liberto Cruz, a collection of Raúl de Carvalho, Poetry ( 1949 - 1958 ), both published in 1965. throughout his life, he practiced what he ironically called “emergency activities. ” He was a public official, a librarian of the travelling libraries of the Gulbenkian Foundation, a typographical reviewer and a bookstore, but it was in journalism that he found his main occupation, that he practiced until the reform, passing through the newspapers of the Republic ( 1965 to 1968 ), The Century ( 1977 to 1982 ) and The Capital ( 1982 to 1996 ), where, over 12 years, he signed the Chronicle of Planet Earth. It was highlighted by the authorship of numerous articles on topics that have not been addressed until then, such as the pollution of rivers, the planting of eucalyptus, the industrial occupation of Sines or the nuclear power plant of Ferrel, “ dozens of reports on the ‘green’ and the ‘black’ of this country”, as he himself came to describe. As a conscious and interventionary citizen, he stood out, soon after the Revolution of 1974, as founder of the Portuguese Ecological Movement, where he created and directed the Ecological Front newspaper. Recently, he again gave books to the print, but privileged his poetic production, with the publication of Campa Rasa and Other Poetry( 2011 ) and Lama and Alvorada - Poetry Reunion 1953 - 2015 ( 2017 ). Despite disaligned and libertarian since 2013, he was affiliated and militant in the PAN, Pessoas-Animal-Nature Party. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to the memory of Afonso Joaquim Fernandes Cuatela, and transmit to their family, friends and companions of causes the most sympathy for their disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 589/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Despite the death of José Manuel Tengarrinha, presented by the President of the Assembly of the Republic and subscribed by PS Members. I ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with sense that the Assembly of the Republic signs the death of José Manuel Tengarrinha. José Manuel Tengarrinha was born in Portimão on April 12, 1932. He was a prominent anti-fascist militant involved in the democratic struggles of the MUD Youth and the CDE. This fight for freedom and democracy was worth political imprisonment in Aljube and Caxias, from which he was released on 27 April 1974. The dictatorship was overthrown, Tengarrinha appears as the face of the CDE / CDE, a party that represents in the Constituent Assembly, being by its own right next to names such as Mário Soares, Sá Carneiro, Álvaro Cunhal or Freitas do Amaral, one of the architects of our constitutional regime and one of the builders of democratic consolidation in Portugal. José Manuel Tengarrinha also leaves us a valuable work in the field of the Contemporary History of Portugal, and above all an extraordinary example of citizenship, bearing a participatory conception of democracy and inspiring for the new generations. He was, until the last day, a citizen engaged in the public case and in the future of his country, now affiliated with the Free Political Party, on whose lists he applied in 2015. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to the memory of José Manuel Tengarrinha and transmit to their family, friends and companions of struggle the most sympathy for their disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u327	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It is the turn of vote No 591/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Amendio Fernandes Secca, presented by PS. I request the reading of this vote to Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 25, at 93 years of age, Amendio Fernandes Secca, historical leader of the Árvore Cooperative. Born in Porto on June 15, 1925, Amendio Secca graduated in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Porto and became a partner of the Árvore Cooperative in 1966. In 1972 he began to integrate his social bodies, contributing decisively to the definition of the values that still guide this entity: a space of freedom, sharing ideas, culture, arts and solidarity. Featured anti-fascist militant, Amendio Secca has worked throughout his life to preserve the values of citizenship and democracy, having had a strong and relevant civic and cultural intervention in the city of Porto. at the age of 93 he played, with the enthusiasm he was known, the role of President of the Board of Directors of the Árvore Cooperative, having been thanked in 2017 as Commander of the Order of Merit by President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. from his memory will be an example of seriousness, intellectual rigor, love for the city of Porto and culture, which he has always seen as the memory of a country and the investment to be made in the future. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Amendio Secca, to whom it expresses its homage, and expresses its heartfelt condolences to the family and to all those who were close to it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u329	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with vote No 592/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of José Batista de Matos, presented by PS. I ask Secretary Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Batista de Matos, the face of Portuguese emigration at the National Museum of the History of Emigration in Paris, one of the major references of the community in France, died last July 1 in the Battle, 84 years old, causing great dismay among all those who knew him. He arrived in Paris in 1963 and knew the hard life in the canonville of Champigny, as many thousands of compatriots, which only accentuated his impulse for civic involvement and the struggle for dignified living conditions for all. He was appointed general of the Paris metro and active in the rights of workers. He was an associative leader, having founded the Portuguese Association of Fontenay-sous-Bois, where he lived much of his life and who, on June 2, granted him the City Medal. That was when the first monument was erected on 25 April 1974 outside Portugal, where many figures of Portuguese public life passed. He was a member of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and wrote two books that reflect the meaning of his life: History, culture and traditions of the Alcanadas and A life of civic and cultural militancy. He was also the booster of the twinning between Fontenay-sous-Bois and the Great Navy. Batista de Matos was a champion of freedom and democracy and an unconformed fighter against inequalities, as demonstrated by his stances and the way he was involved in May 68, with the idealism of those who want to change the world. He was a man of causes and well known for his generosity and sense of humanity. In 2012 he received the Order of the National Order of Merit from the Portuguese State. Now he left his time between Paris and Alcanadas, where he was born, in the city of Batalha, and where he now died. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, recognizes the merits and the civic and human qualities of this Portuguese citizen who resided much of his life in France, and expresses his deepest condolences to the family and friends of José Batista de Matos. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u331	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 594/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Commander José Batista de Matos, presented by the PSD. This vote will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Batista de Matos, associative leader and face of the Lusa emigration at the National Museum of Immigration History in Paris, died last Sunday at the age of 84. Natural of Alcanadas, in the Battle, Leiria district, Batista de Matos arrived in France in 1963, fled to the dictatorship, establishing his residence in Champigny, in the vicinity of Paris, having come to perform the duties of chief general on the metro of the city. With a journey of more than 50 years linked to association, the Portuguese emigrant was a founding member and leader of the Portuguese Association of Fontenay-sous-Bois, a city in which he promoted their twinning with the Great Navy and where he promoted, over many years, significant commemorations of 25 April. Batista de Matos was counsellor of the Portuguese Communities, always claiming to be an active defender of our community and of our language and culture. On 10 June 2011 the President of the Republic assigned to him the Order of Merit in recognition of the services provided to Portugal and to Portuguese emigration. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses the public regret over the death of José Batista de Matos and presents his most heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and all those who had the privilege of sharing his company throughout his life. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u333	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the last vote of regret, vote No 596 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Ricardo Camacho, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP Members. I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco again to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Virologist doctor with a relevant action in the fight against HIV and a talented musician, Ricardo Camacho was a remarkable Portuguese who died at the age of 64. Born in Funchal, he moved to Lisbon to study Medicine. He maintained intense activity as a musical producer, musician and composer. He created, with Pedro Ayres Magalhães and Miguel Esteves Cardoso, the mythical publisher Atlantic Foundation. In the early 1980s he joined, first as a producer and later as a musician, the Seventh Legion, a band with strong influence from the British music environment, among which the Joy Divisions. The group composed of Rodrigo León, Pedro Oliveira, Nuno Cruz, Gabriel Gomes, Paulo Marinho, Paulo Abelho and Francisco Menezes, marked the national panorama for two decades. To An Unknown God, the first album of the group, or the songs Seven Seas and For whom I have not forgotten are part of the heritage of Portuguese music these decades and have the concoction of Ricardo Camacho. Despite its extreme discretion, the musical career has brought him great popularity in the musical environment and among the public. However, it was Medicine, who thought he would quit as a student, who would bring him great professional and personal compensation. Ricardo Camacho worked at the IPO and the Egas Moniz Hospital. His work was fundamental in the implementation of HIV resistance tests to determine the most appropriate therapies in patients with conventional therapy resistance. He was a consultant to the National AIDS Commission and participated in several international studies on the disease. It is highlighted by colleagues for their continuing availability and for their great dedication and humanity as a citizen who is committed to helping these patients. The connection to music remained present in his life. In 2012 he was present on the anniversary of the Seventh Legion, a band that, at the commemoration of his 30 years, republished all the records and carried out a tour of the country. In 2013 he began to work as a researcher at the Rega Institute for Medical Research in Louvaina, Belgium, where he died in the morning of July 4th. The Assembly of the Republic regrets the loss of a doctor who highlighted himself for the international relevance of his work and for his dedication to the fight against HIV and a musician who noted himself in the creation of a unique and unmistakable musical universe, helping to project Portuguese music in the world panorama. The Assembly of the Republic addresses the family, the seventh legion band and Ricardo Camacho's friends with the greatest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u335	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 584 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From condemnation of discrimination and aggression by racism to Nicol Quinayas, in port, submitted by PS and BE, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u336	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The society of the twenty-first century, multicultural and globalized, continues to be deeply shaped by racism, prejudice which, above all, reveals fear and repudiation for the equality and universality of rights among all peoples. Among its harmful effects, racism is responsible for social injustice, economic inequality and violence of varying degrees, a little around the world. In the early morning of June 24, young Nicol Quinayas, 21 year old born in Colombia and living in Portugal since the age of 5, was violently assaulted, physically and verbally, by an element of the security of the port STCP when trying to access a bus. The violence of the act and its contours shocked the country, and there was a warning that it could not in any way be ignored, either by civil society or by judicial forces and, in particular, by the Portuguese political sphere. Portugal has been a pioneer in anti-discrimination policy since 1999. We approved in 2017 Law No 93 / 2017, which strengthens the legal regime for the prevention, prohibition and combating discrimination due to racial and ethnic origin, color, nationality, descent and territory of origin. Europe goes through a sensitive period, facing migratory pressure caused by the influx of refugees, as well as by a high emigration of economic causes. The extreme-right populism emerges east, north and south, questioning the founding values of the European Union. in this context, it is essential to strengthen clear position taken against the irrational and security protectionist drift that tends to identify immigrants or ethnic groups as unwanted social segments. The Socialist Party will propose a report on xenophobia and racism in Portugal under the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, and as a representative assembly of a country of reference in the reception of migrants, inclusion and appreciation of interculturality, strongly repudiates any sign of racial discrimination and strongly condemns the act of violence committed against young Nicol Quinayas".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u337	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote 593 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation of racist attacks and insults against citizen Nicol Quinaya, presented by the PCP, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u338	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Recently, in the city of Porto, citizen Nicol Quinayas was brutally assaulted and victimized by racist and xenophobic insults by an element of a private security company hired by STCP. According to testimony, after insults, security violently assaulted the citizen, using a clearly disproportionate force. After reaching with multiple shocks, the security immobilized her, twisted her arm and placed her on the ground, with her face to crash to the ground, putting a knee on her back. This citizen suffered several and serious injuries that were confirmed by a hospital unit. Also according to witnesses, the PSP agents arriving at the site did not record the occurrence and did not take any measures to safeguard the rights and guarantees of the injured citizen. In view of the seriousness of such occurrences, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, vehemently condemns the insults and aggressions of racist and xenophobic character that was victimized to citizen Nicol Quinaya and expects from all public authorities a leading action to prevent such acts from remaining unpunished. It requires accountability for the absence of PSP intervention in view of this serious occurrence and calls for the sense of responsibility of all public and private entities to prevent any acts of racist and xenophobic discrimination and the accountability of their authors."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u339	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 586/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — From praise to the Portuguese dancers for the results achieved at the 2018 Dance World Cup, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members, who will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u340	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Annarella Sanchéz International Dance Conservatory of Leiria won more than 30 medals — between gold, silver and bronze — at the end of the 2018 Dance World Cup, which took place in Sitges, Barcelona, in the last week of June. Dance World Cup is the world's largest dance competition for children and young adults. This year's edition brought together more than 20 000 competitors, and Portugal reached the third place among the 54 participating countries. Already in 2017, the Annarella Sanchéz Ballet Academy, founded in 1998 and which originated the International Dance Conservatory in 2014, was elected the best in the world with the Outstanding School Award, awarded by the Youth America Grand Prix in New York. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and congratulates the Portuguese dancers who participated in the competition, highlighting the results achieved».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u341	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 587/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) :— Greeting the Olympic Committee of Portugal for its integration into the International Committee of the Mediterranean Games, presented by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u342	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « After many years of unimplemented candidatures, the Olympic Committee of Portugal was able to join the International Committee of the Mediterranean Games, in the General Assembly held in October 2017. As a result, Portugal participated for the first time in the Mediterranean Games, which took place in Tarragona, between the last 22 June and 1 July, which had in its 18th. the edition of the presence of 26 countries from three different continents. The Portuguese delegation was composed of 225 athletes, who competed in 29 of the 32 modalities of these Games, which was the largest ever participation of Portuguese sport in a multi-sport competition. The sporting results were quite positive, highlighting the conquest of 24 medals, of which three gold, eight silver and 13 bronze, in 12 different modes (athletism, basketball, canoeing, cycling, equestrian, judo, swimming, rowing, taekwondo, table tennis, shooting and triatlo). The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, therefore welcomes Portugal's participation in the Mediterranean Games, praising the Olympic Committee of Portugal, the participating sports federations and the entire Portuguese delegation, with particular emphasis on the medal athletes'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u343	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the vote on vote No 588 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With praise for the results achieved by Portuguese athletes at the Mediterranean Games, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSD Members, which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u344	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Portuguese participation in the Mediterranean Games, which took place last week in Tarragona, Spain, ended with a fairly positive balance, having the national athletes obtained 24 medals, in total, distributed as follows: three gold medals, eight silver and 13 bronze. This is another fact achieved in an international sports competition that honours all Portuguese, demonstrating well the commitment, dedication and professionalism with which national athletes and their technical teams face these competitions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and congratulates the Portuguese athletes who participated in the Mediterranean Games, highlighting the results achieved».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u345	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 590/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From greeting to Antonio Vitorino, by the election to the post of Director-General of the International Organization for Migration, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u346	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Just a week ago, Members of the Assembly of the Republic received with great satisfaction the news of the election of Antonio Vitorino to the post of Director-General of the International Organization of Migration, an agency of the United Nations, based in Geneva. António Vitorino was elected in the fifth round by acclamation, after having always been the most voted candidate in the previous rounds. António Vitorino was a prominent parliament member and member of the Government of Portugal. It is one of the most recognized political frameworks of its generation. Between 1999 and 2004, he served as a European Commissioner, following closely the case of migration in the folder he held : justice and home affairs. at a time when the migration issue is so present on the international agenda, it is good news for the cause of human rights and international cooperation to have someone in front of the International Organization of Migration with the political preparation, technical competence and humanist vision of Antonio Vitorino. Its election is also another sign of the recognition of Portugal's commitment to defending multilateral responses to challenges of an international and global nature. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic thus welcomes Antonio Vitorino and Portuguese diplomacy for this important moment of international recognition."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u347	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] [[PSD, PS, standing, and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the request made by the PS, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, until the end of the public consultation, of Bill No 136 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, and its regulations, and the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on Bill No 608/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repositions the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, making the 8th amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which approves the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on Bill No 609 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assigns the right to 25 days of annual holidays, starting at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 647 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Returns amounts and calculation rules on termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 797 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 10. the Commission. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 886 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revokes dismissal due to inadaptation and amends the regime of collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction, strengthening the rights of workers ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, until the end of the public consultation, of Bill No 912 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which approved the Labour Code ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As a result of the approval of the application, the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 728 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Repeal the amendments to the Labour Code introduced during the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against PAN and PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u348	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u349	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u350	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u351	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 729 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the legal regime applicable to term contracts by implementing the commitments contained in the Government Programme and the recommendations of the Working Group for the preparation of a national plan against precariousness, with effect from 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] I pay attention to the outcome of the vote, so the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 730 / XIII ( 3 ) is followed. ( a ) — Repeals amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the Troika period relating to termination of the job and eliminates the figure of dismissal due to inadaptation by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the Left Block, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for the time necessary until the end of the period of public assessment, of the projects of lein. 902 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE), 903 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reverts the cuts introduced by the PSD/CDS Government on holiday days, at compensatory rest, to the increase in remuneration due to additional work and devotes Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory holiday ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ), 904 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE) and 905 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal on objective grounds when the employer makes compensation available to the worker ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In view of the approval of the application, bills are down to 10. the Commission. We will then vote on a request, submitted by Mr Pelos Verdes, also requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, until the completion of the public discussion process, of the projects of lein.o 900 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens ), 901 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The rules allowing the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed ( The Greens ) and 909 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of the vote, the bills also fall to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting, until the end of the period of public assessment, of the drafts of lein. 897 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP) and 898 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June acknowledging the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, in the same way, the approval of the application determines the drop of such bills to 10. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves rules on the processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the transfer by air carriers of data from passenger identification records and the processing of such data by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 681. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill we just voted on is low to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Judiciary Judges. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] This bill therefore goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 879 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the abolition of bull races in Portugal ( NAP ). [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSP, PSP, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, 8 PS (Ana Passos, Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Hugo Carvalho, Luís Graça, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the PSP deputy Cristovão Norte and 12 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, André Pinotes Baptista, Carla Tavares, Elza Pais, Filipe Neto Brandão, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Soares, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Porfirio Silva, Sandra Pontedeira and Sonia Fertuzinhos), from PSD José de Matos Correia and from BE Carlos Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u352	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u353	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u354	It is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Diogo León, Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz, Carla Sousa, Ana Passos, Hugo Carvalho and Luís Graza, I will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u355	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You now have the floor to Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u356	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u357	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u358	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr Alexandre Quintanilla and I have already tabled a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u359	Have you tabled a statement of vote before you voted, Mr? [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u360	We have already voted and, in the next few seconds, we have tabled the statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u361	It was the same second, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u362	Mr President, I would also like to announce that, on the last vote, I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u363	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u364	Mr President, it is to inform that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u365	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u366	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr Ivan Gonçalves and I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u367	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u368	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u369	It is recorded, Mrs Deputy, as quickly as possible. Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u370	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on the vote we have just held, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u371	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. You still have the floor to Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u372	Mr President, I would like to announce that Mr António Lima Costa and I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u373	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u374	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u375	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr João Rebelo has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u376	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u377	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1730/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the General Inspection of Education and Science ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] This diploma therefore falls to 8. We shall also vote, in general, on Bill No. 732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes from the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability to 13. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1734 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of an additional bonus credit line for the recovery of second houses destroyed by the 2017 fires ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u378	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u379	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u380	It is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that we have just held, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u381	It is registered, Mr. João Oliveira. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1737 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide the Basic School of São Romão in Mesão Frio ( Guimarães ) with the necessary conditions to ensure the success of the school ( CDS-PP ). Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u382	Mr President, we do not want to keep other credits. The draft resolution that Mr. President just put forward was presented by the CDS but was erroneously identified in the vote script as the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u383	The draft resolution is from the CDS, but the CDS didn't give anything... [[General laughter.]] Mrs. Members, let us then vote on draft resolution No 1737 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), submitted by the CDS-PP. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1512 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Social support for COFACO workers on the island of Pico ( PCP ) ( replaced text within the Commission ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft law No 823 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 235 / 2008 of 3 December, which establishes that, in order to carry out strategic and structural investments, the Bureau of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon needs the authorization of protection ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 recalibrating the full production of effects of the Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 123 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on draft resolutions Nos 1653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( PSD ) and 1703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes the immediate reduction of the ISP and its adequacy to the increase in the price of oil ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we also have two opinions from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which it is important to vote, and I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u384	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Local Court of Matosinhos, Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 3987 - 15.5T8MTS, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u385	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u386	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request of Judge 3 of the Lisbon Labour Court, Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No 26086 / 17.0T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Berta Cabral ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-06.u387	Let's vote for the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our agenda today. I recall that the next plenary session will take place on Thursday, 12 July, at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes, and will have an extensive agenda. Thus, first of all, we will review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 201/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform. Secondly, we will also review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 203 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person ; discussion with the participation of the Government on the priorities of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Act No. 43 / 2006, of 25 August, in its current wording. Next, the joint discussion of Bill No 82 / XIII ( 2 ) will be held in general. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July regulating the allocation of social mobility allowance to beneficiary citizens in the context of air and maritime services between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between this and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, pursuing objectives of social and territorial cohesion ( ALRAM ) and draft resolutions No 1644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary measures for critical situations in air connections between the Portuguese continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens) and 1645 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Aerial mobility strategy with an effective response to links between the continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens ). Finally, we will appreciate the Annual Internal Security Report — 2017 ( RASI). At the end of the sitting, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 56 minutes.]]
