ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we move on to the first item on today's agenda, which consists in reading a message from the President of the Republic, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.o 845 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Guarantees the award for defaults to all employees of the Public Administration who perform the functions of handling securities, cash, securities or documents ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 4 / 89 of 6 January ) ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 846 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Organisation of working time, guarantee of security conditions and career creation of civil aviation security workers / APA — Airports ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing leases ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and to the new urban lease regime ) ( BE ), 848 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, to improve the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( the seventy-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 47 344 / 66 of 25 November) ( BE ), 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate financing mechanisms for promoting housing policies ( makes the seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September) ( BE), 850 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs counter-ordinary punishment for harassment in lease ( BE ), 852 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( Review of the Urban Rent Law) ( Os Verdes ), 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the suspension of deadlines for the new Urban Rent Scheme and for lay-off procedures ( BE) and 854 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish an extraordinary and transitional protection regime for elderly or disabled persons who have been leased and resided on the same site for more than 15 years ( PS ). Parliamentary opinions 62 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 63 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE) — Concerning Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April regulating the Film Law as regards measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities. The draft resolutions 1542 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Maintenance of the Ergonomie degree at the Faculty of Human Mobility of the University of Lisbon ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1544 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify EN124 between Silves and Porto de Lagos ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1545 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness and ensures the effective integration of workers from different Polis companies into the Portuguese Environment Agency ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1546 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary recruitment and placement of inspectors in the area of education and science ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1547 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1549 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for forest diversification ( BE), 1551 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons qualified to access the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis may carry out three pregnancy attempts within the National Health Service ( BE ), 1552/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen health accessibility to Huntington ( PCP ) patients, 1553/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Modernisation of the taxi sector ( PCP ), 1555 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate the procedures of the National Rent Balcony ( PAN), 1556 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends a set of support and promotion measures for the taxi sector ( PS ), 1557 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By defending the West Line, ensuring a public quality transport service for populations ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1558 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of tolls in the so-called « Autostrada do Pinhal Interior » ( A13 section between the Entronment and Coimbra and A13.1 linking the Condeix ) ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u3	We shall then enter the agenda with the reading of a message from the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / XIII on the legal regime for the individual and paid transport of passengers on vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform. I will read the message: « Your Excellency The President of the Assembly of the Republic, I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 201 / XIII, concerning the legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport on decharacterized vehicles from electronic platform. 1 — This Decree governs a new matter with regard to the individual and paid transport of passengers, with economic, social and legal implications: transport operators in uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform ( TVDE ), operators such competitors with traditional taxi companies. The situation is not exclusively national, but it has motivated reflections and ongoing discussions in numerous societies, both Europeans and non-Europeans. No cases of specific national regulation are known, therefore this Decree of innovative charis. These reflections and debates gained a more obvious expression with the European Union Court of Justice judgment of 20 December 2017, which expressly considered electronic platforms providing TVDE as effective transport operators. 2 — The scheme now subject to the promulgation only disciplines the subject matter of TVDE, although the purpose of balancing the rights and obligations of the two types of entities in attendance — TVDE and taxis. in this field, as in others, it is a matter of integrating significant technological innovations into our legal order, cautioning situations created in the past and which deserve protection. We must recognize the effort made by the government and the parties that approved it in order to find the above-mentioned balance. 3 — I would like to express my appreciation, however, that the diploma raises two fundamental political reservations. First reserve: by covering only one of the competing entities ( TVDEs) lose the opportunity to at the same time revise in accordance with the other entity's legal regime ( taxis ). That is, he loses the opportunity to treat globally and more fairly what he could and should have been treated. Second reserve: the purpose of achieving a balanced solution has not been fully achieved. In the case of taxis, there are quotas that would not exist for TVDE. And this essential difference should have been adequately compensated. Especially because, in taxis, rates continue to be fixed, unlike TVDE, in which they are free. These two weight economic and financial differences are not compensated by the use of BUS corridors, nor by the squares and full public access ( hiing), today much less significant due to the possibility of electronic call to any location on TVDE. Strictly speaking, the only bulk compensation could be the contribution paid by TVDE. But this contribution, for which there was an amount of relief proposed in the legislative procedure, ended up in its concrete value in the hands of the administrative authorities and with a symbolic minimum footing. In other words, the large compensation for the absence of quotas and a system for TVDE tariffs may end up being insignificant. 4 — For these reasons, and although knowing that the party's consensus in the vote on the Decree was broad and clearly the purpose of seeking balance in the legal solution, I would ask the Assembly of the Republic to show openness to match that solution, so as to go further than it has been (in particular in tariffs or contributions) in obtaining this balance in the treatment of socially sensitive transport operators, ideally regulating the TVDE simultaneously with the modernisation of taxi regulation. For this purpose, I return, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic of 201 / XIII, concerning the legal regime for the individual and paid transport of passengers in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform. Palazzo de Belém, April 29, 2018 The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa". Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there has not been a time for discussion on this point since it has not yet been scheduled. Mr Duarte Pacheco once again has the floor to read more initiatives which, however, have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members also brought into the Bureau the following legislative initiatives: the proposals of lein. 127 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from taxation of property income arising from renting or under-renderment under the Accessible Rent Programme, 128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs differentiated autonomous rates of IRS for residential income in long-term housing leases, and 129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down measures to correct imbalance situations in the position of tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban leases and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation; Draft resolutions 1548 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of urgent registration and notarial measures ( PSD ), which fall to 1. the Commission, 1550 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment at the time of the national examinations ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1554 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the financing of ANIM — National Archive of Images in Movement ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 1559 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop an analysis of the impact of intensive olives on natural resources, ecosystems and public health ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. The projects of lein. 851 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Table. ( a ) — Repeals Ordinance No 296 / 2016 of 28 November re-introducing the duty of publicity by the Institute for Social Security, IP, on its website, the supervision plan and their selected institutions and the audit report of the audits carried out during the past year, as well as the conclusions and measures taken as a result of these actions ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 855 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to the Framework Law on Environmental Controls to establish the principle of no prior notice of inspection and supervision actions ( The Greens) and 856 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2004 of 18 August, as amended by Law No 55 -A / 2010 of 31 December 2010, which regulates the organisation and operation of the National Data Protection Commission ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u5	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations, the first of which is the responsibility of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u6	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u7	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u8	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have been listening to the reference to the diplomas that have entered the Bureau and I would like to know to which the Commission lowers the bills that the Government has submitted on housing, because it has not been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u9	According to me Secretary Duarte Pacheco, it was not announced because the bills are scheduled for the next Friday session.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u10	Of course, Mr President, but there are also related diplomas scheduled for May 10 which are in another Commission. That's why I raised the issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u11	You did well to raise the issue, Mrs. I hope you'll settle it in time. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Roque to make a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was celebrated yesterday another day 1. May. The PSD is associated with this efemeride and welcomes all Portuguese workers and their trade union representatives from this forum. The 1st. May is the Day of the Worker, the Day of the Worker, the International Day of the Workers or even, in the liturgical calendar, the Day of São José Operário, because it is the patron of the workers. This multiplicity of definitions points, however, in a single direction: an international party that evokes the struggle of workers for the reduction of working time to an 8 hour day, at the end of the 19th century, in the United States. And so it was yesterday in Portugal, as in the rest of the world, a commemorative party. The PSD-Democratic Social Party is once again associated with this evocation. We understand and appreciate the primary role of work and we understand that the defence of its fundamental principles and rights must always be at the forefront of defining economic and social policies. We reaffirm the fundamental ethical premise that work is not a commodity, but rather its primary value depends on the human being itself, which is, at the same time, author and recipient. The PSD also defends and values trade union freedom to defend the rights and interests of workers, in respect of the principles of democratic organization and independence vis-à-vis companies, the State, religious confessions or political parties. We recognize the right of trade union associations to participate in the drafting of labour legislation and, in conjunction with business associations, to pronounce on economic and social planning in collective bargaining and consequent conclusion of collective labour regulation instruments. This is our vision and is perfectly current, either against the Constitution, or against the principles of the ILO (International Labour Organization) established about a century ago, reaffirmed in the Declaration of Philadelphia 1944 and reflected in its successive recommendations and conventions that Portugal has ratified and adopted. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD recognizes that there is a historical dichotomy between work and capital. But we understand, however, that, in the days that run, the exacerbated defense of one or another of these aspects and especially its antagonism to no one takes advantage of. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa and PCP Member João Oliveira.]] If, on the one hand, the struggle of Marxist classes is an anachronistic and pernicious in economic sustainability, in maintaining employment levels and in attracting productive investment, it is also no less certain that economic regulation only by market law can be insensitive and even contrary to the basic principles of humanism and social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u14	Portugal and its European partners are therefore defined beyond rule of law as social market economies. It is important to pursue a common interest that promotes economic development, redistribution and social peace, and this is the full responsibility of all political, economic and social actors, mainly of the government and of trade union and business partners. No one is excused to collaborate in their search and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u16	We are advocates of structured dialogue, whether social dialogue or collective bargaining, to reconcile interests, to resolve conflicts and also to predict and understand the aspirations of society. This requires the adoption of proactive strategies that compromise the action of the parties. Indeed, the path to social peace and economic prosperity precedes a culture of commitment based on the responsibilities of each of the actors. We are thus through the social dialogue of collective bargaining and social dialogue as defined by ILO, practised in Portugal through a tripartite process (government, capital and labour) or bipartite (capital and labour). This view requires a great deal of effort from the economic and social partners to get used to distinguish the importance of the accessory in their negotiating positions, taking into account precisely the common interest. In view of this, we consider the announcement made yesterday in Figueiró dos Vinhos, by UGT ( General Workers'Union ), at its 1st party. the May one, which will present, in the case of social consultation, a proposal for an IRC rate (tax on the income of the public) at 0 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u17	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u18	...for three years, for companies that are set up inside, and for job creation as a counterpart. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] This is of the greatest relevance to attracting new companies and to enable survival to those who, stubbornly, want to remain in low-density territories, creating wealth and employment. We know that many of them have been severely affected by the tragic forest fires of 2017, so urgently support them. It is important that the proposed field of trade union and employers' confederations is not bound by the stagnity of the concepts of capital against work, but which also cover « the other side of the border ». There are no companies without workers, just as there are no workers without companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u20	Interest is common and symbiotic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u21	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u22	I will finish, Mr. President. As we are talking about here today, it is also important to mention the importance of the State to act, not only as an entity with sovereign power to govern, but also as a employer. Because of the vicissitudes inherent in an international financial rescue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u23	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u24	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I would just like to say that at this economic and financial point in Portugal it is illegitimate and unfair to continue to freeze public service wages. That is why it is the most basic justice that can be done to update it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u25	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u26	Moreover, the Government cannot, on the one hand, be harsh and strict with the State workers and, on the other hand, be lazy in respect of the money it injects into the business sector, mainly in the General Deposit Box. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u27	The Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification. To that end, you have the floor, firstly, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u28	Mr President, when we were informed that the topic of the PSD political declaration was 1. May's, I was a little surprised. I even confirmed at the bench whether it would even be an intervention on 1. May. And it was! [[PSD protests.]] It's strange, because 1. May was done, as it was remembered, more than 100 years ago. The first time in Portugal there was a march on 1. May was in 1890, to remember the martyrs of Chicago, from a fundamental struggle, which was the struggle for 8 hours, — I repeat, for 8 hours! — or for 40 hours in a week, which is exactly what the PSD blew up when, in labour law, it allowed the flexible working hours, the hour bank, the possibility of people working 60 hours in a week. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u29	Yesterday, I was in the demonstrations of 1. May – I did not see the PSD there! — and I saw the workers and workers of the Pingo Doce or the Continent, to whom this bench of hours is imposed and to whom work hours are imposed which make it impossible for them to reconcile their professional life with their family life; I saw the precarious workers and the precarious workers, in particular I saw the Catholic Workers Youth, who rightly called attention to the changes that the right made in the Labour Code, allowing young people, only because they were young, to have a contract in time; there I saw the workers and workers who are victims of harassment at the workplace, because the PSD and the CDS broke up with collective bargaining, broke out with the ability of the workers not being dominated by fear at their workplaces. So the 1st. the May one was above all that, but this is the antithesis of what the PSD defends and defended in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u31	at 5 minutes and 36 seconds of Mr Deputy's political statement, I understood why he chose this issue. It is that Mr involved in an intervention which apparently was about 1. that of May the real proposal and the real object of its intervention, which was to defend that companies pay less taxes and defend a bill for companies, as, in fact, surreally, UGT defended yesterday, on Workers' Day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u33	Mr Deputies, Workers' Day is a day to remember the rights of work — the rights of work! — of whom you live in your work; it is not a day to offer more tax bills to businesses. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u34	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u35	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, recalled here the 1st. the May one and, to this end, made an intervention, I would say, quite doctrinal, about Marxism, class struggle, capital and labor. I think it's important that we get down to the ground. It is because you have mentioned here the need to be on the side of the workers, to rule for the workers, which I assume is a self-criticism about the governance that you have supported over several years in this country. [[PSD protests.]] He also spoke of the Constitution, and you have ruled against it. But more important than being next to the workers in 1. the May one, or as important as that, is to be with the workers in the work we do here in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it will be important to remember that your party voted against the historical increase in the minimum wage, voted against the replacement of holidays, voted against the Special Regularization Programme of the Pre-Secure Links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), voted against the strengthening of the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ), voted against the liability of temporary workers, voted against the law of transmission of establishment, voted against the law of combating harassment, voted against the purposes of cutting unemployment benefit, voted against the new scheme for self-employed, voted against the end of the pay cuts and has, throughout this legislature, voted against everything we have done to improve the lives of workers. We are bringing here a compromise agreement and you are voting against it. Therefore, it will be important to know more than to talk about the past than to talk about what we have been doing, if we can finally count on the PSD for the fights they count. at this time, we presented to social consultation a set of proposals that seek to change the laws of the work. Among many other things, they seek to change the term contract and seek to revoke the individual hourly bank. We would therefore like to know whether or not until the end of this Parliament we will finally count on the PSD alongside the workers and these proposals which we have on the table at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u36	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u37	Mr President, first of all, I thank the honourable Members. Mr José Soeiro and Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro asked the questions. Mr. José Soeiro said he did not see PSD 1. May. For he certainly did not see it in Alameda, but he would see - if it were the Figueiró of the Wines, at the feast of the UGT, where the PSD was represented, as in fact also were the Socialist Party and the CDS, as it happens every year since there are parties of the 1 in this country. May celebrated in freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u38	by the way, there are differences between the commemorations of the 1. May! May! May! May! May! May! May! May! May! May! May! May!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u39	The honourable Member is speaking on the issue of the brokerage for companies and I believe he has not understood the fundamentals of my intervention. It is obvious that you heard her under a clearly Marxist prism and class struggle. What I said was that we supported a proposal, which is a central union, to exempt from IRC companies that settle inside or those that are already there, especially those that have been scourged by fires, to create and maintain jobs. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] [[Is it against you, too?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u40	Yesterday I was in Pedrogão Grande, in a town called Moita, where a company that was seriously affected by fires is stubbornly working, is producing 40 % and keeps all jobs and wages. These companies have the right to help because they themselves are helping the workers who work in them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u42	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro spoke about the question of minimum wage. I must say that still the troika, that VV. Ex.as brought to this country, had not left Portela airport since the PSD and CDS government had promoted an increase in the national minimum wage. So we don't get lessons about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u44	You must have a memory problem! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u45	All the latest changes in labour law in this country resulted from a social agreement signed by the government, the trade union partner and the business partners. What we stand for is reconciliation of interests and balance, because that is what makes the country move forward and that is what promotes social peace. May the gentlemen be in the same wavelength. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u46	We're going into the second round of questions. Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u47	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, did well to bring here a greeting to 1. May to the Day of the Worker. We know there are parties who think they own 1. May and who are the owners of the workers, but it is not so!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u49	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u50	And there are bosses who think they own the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u51	from the CDS side, whether I want Mr Pedro Mota Soares we were present at 1. May UGT. And it's important to sign that 1. the May one, not only because it took place inside, but also because it took place in one of the areas that were affected by last year's fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u53	It is good to remember that there are workers throughout the country, it is not only on the coast, it is not only in the big cities, it is also in the interior, and we must also remind ourselves of these workers. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u54	It's good that 1st. the May Day of the Worker, be remembered, because the CDS defends work with dignity, reconciliation between work and the family, the importance of regulating those that are the new forms of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u56	When these matters are discussed, it is good to bear in mind that we defend social dialogue, social dialogue and the role of trade unions. We do so mainly when we discuss the revision of labour law in social consultation, labour law which allowed unemployment to fall and employment to increase in the country. It is good to remember that there are those who want to ignore the role of social consultation, there are those who want to overcome social security and impose themselves on negotiation. And at a time when this happens, it is also important to remember that it is serious that, for example, since there has been a social agreement for the increase in the minimum wage in 2017, the government has failed to comply with what it was able to do in the context of the counterparties of that same agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u57	PSD voted against and CDS abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u58	Mr Pedro Roque, does he not consider it serious that it is the government itself to breach this agreement and to call into question the social dialogue and the importance of workers? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u59	Does he or she consider this to be serious and deserves our censorship? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u60	Mr Rita Rato, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Roque, come to talk about 1. the May one and talk more about the patronage than the workers also says a lot about the vision that the PSD and the CDS have about 1. May's, but that doesn't surprise us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u62	There he is! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u63	We are not surprised to hear the PSD speak of the 1. May as a day of commemoration, which is, is true, but is that 1. May is above all a day of struggle, of combating changes to the Labour Code. What has been promoted by whom, Mr. Deputies? For PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u64	There he is! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u65	... and which, by a large majority, the PS maintains unalterable, with injury to workers. That's why 1. May is historically a day of struggle. It is and continues to be, because Portuguese workers have many reasons to continue to fight, and to continue to fight against precariousness, by the end of the lapse of collective bargaining, by the right to articulation between family life and professional life, because they know that it was with their struggle that conquered rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u67	The honourable Member has come to talk about social dialogue, but social dialogue is what employers don't want, dialogue is what employers refuse every day, forcing workers to go to the strike and lose their paydays to have wage increases. Lidl, Mini-price, Panrico's workers have been on strike, Mr Member, because they want dialogue because they want to negotiate wage increases, but the employer does not want to guarantee that. So what workers know is that 1. May is and will continue to be a day of workers, a day of struggle for their rights. What is required to ask is the following: the PSD has come to speak of 1. the May one because he had a rebate of consciousness for having increased the working time in the Public Administration, which since 1998 was in 35 hours? PSD came to talk about 1. that of May because he had a rebate of consciousness for having widespread precariousness and for having cut wages and pensions? Or the PSD came to talk about 1. the May one to "throw sand for the workers' eyes"? It is that workers know which side the PSD is on. The honourable Member spoke of a historical dichotomy between work and capital. The PSD has always opted on the same side, on the capital side, while the CFP is, as it is always, because it is the nature of this party, alongside the workers, the rights of the workers and the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u68	In reply, Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u69	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members too. Mr António Carlos Monteiro and Rita Rato asked questions. In fact, I agree with Mr António Carlos Monteiro's first statement: there are no 1 party owners. the May one, as there are no trade union freedom parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u70	There's anyone against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u71	...and, therefore, trade unions are by definition independent of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u73	He asked me if I do not consider the question of social consultation serious. For, of course, I think that social dialogue must be at the heart of everyone's concerns, and also of the Socialist Party, as a continuation of the democratic regime in Portugal. Therefore, everything that goes against social consultation, in which the government is also represented, being one of the vertices of that triangle, does not suffice to those who disrespect it. Mrs Rita Rato, in fact the difference between her speech — was a request for clarification, but it is still an intervention — and mine is precisely that, recognizing us, PSD, that there is a dichotomy, we point to a common interest in conciliation. What I said was precisely that there are no companies without workers or workers without companies. But for VV. It seems that there are workers on one side and companies on the other, often appearing that, if the company does not succeed, nothing will happen to the workers when they are the first to suffer from it. It is therefore important to have such dialogue, the dialogue that is established in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation ( CPCS ), to which the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ) joined late and in which the CGTP "is a figure of present body", not negotiating and, above all, not agreeing to anything, thus not benefiting workers obviously. The dichotomy exists, but we are for the common interest, we are for the reconciliation of interests, because this is good for the workers, it is good for the companies, it is good for the socio-economic development of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u74	To give a political statement, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The housing finally entered the agenda. Despite being one of the fundamental rights of the Constitution, unlike health, education and social security, housing has never had a basic law. The PS therefore ends up presenting Bill No. 843 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) an extensive diploma which densifies Article 65. the fundamental law. This initiative has been very news and has generated quite controversy, which is a good sign, because citizens have the right to speak against or in favour of our initiatives. Therefore, so that they can do so before any basic housing law comes to pass, we today requested that our project be put into public discussion for 60 days. We have made a long journey, and I want to highlight the work of technical services that support 11. the Commission, which at my request have made a comparison legislation on this subject. There are few comparative legislation studies on housing, but the Portuguese Parliament has received responses from 29 national parliaments and the result is available at the Assembly portal in the area of the Working Group to which I belong. Fair enough, ladies. Members, recognize and value the work of the services of the Assembly, so often invisible, but that honours us and prestige. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] We have also made an intense participatory process through the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, having obtained more than 2000 answers and close to 400 concrete suggestions, which have inspired many of the measures we have put into the basic law. Mrs. Members, at the beginning of this legislation, the housing had disappeared from the map: it was not in the Assembly of the Republic and it was not in the Government's organics. But in less than a year, the new Secretary of State for Housing managed to set up a real New Generation of Housing Policies. “ But ‘ New ’ Why? », they will ask. Because it refocused the priorities of public policy. In 2015, the National Housing Strategy of the previous government aims to increase social housing by 12 000 in 20 years; in 2018, the New Housing Policy Generation proposes to add housing with public support in 170 000 in the next six years. Make a difference! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2015, the National Habitat Strategy identified 6612 precarious dwellings and proposed to eradicate them in 20 years; in 2018, the Secretary of State identified close to 25 000 deprived families and the Prime Minister proposes to respond to them until 2024, date of the 50 years of April 25. This is a New Habitat Policy Generation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more: the attitude of the Government and the Secretary of State to Parliament is also new. And I'm going to quote two examples that went unnoticed. On 20 May 2017, we unanimously approved the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 48 / 2017, which called for a national survey of the needs for realisation. In February 2018, the survey was submitted and on 26 April, programme 1 was approved. the law, which will be one of the pillars of the New Habitat Policy Generation, precisely to meet these needs. On June 30, 2017, after visiting several neighborhoods with serious problems, one of them lack of electrical energy, we also unanimously approved that which would be the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 151 / 2017, asking for extraordinary measures for these cases. On 26 April, Mrs. Members, the extraordinary system of access to electricity for these poor neighbourhoods has also been approved by the Council of Ministers. The government responded and was able to give priority to its priority. Some days ago, it was reported that in Portugal they are increasing babies born without parental cohabitation. Mrs. Members, this is not just a sociological change. How can more babies be born with parental cohabitation if there is a whole generation of parents who do not have housing? If they don't have housing, there can't be cohabitation! Valent young people, I say to this gallery, who risk having children, even when instability and uncertainty are the only thing they have right in front of them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is also priority for the elderly and the disabled, who deserve to be guaranteed minimum protection, security and stability by legislation and society. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the lease market is deeply distorted, for which much has contributed to the liberalisation carried out by the previous government. This is a difficult matter, which requires a lot of weighting of opposing interests. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to balance the rights of the parties and, at the same time, to ensure that prices and deadlines are fair and contribute to security, stability and social cohesion. There are numerous families and countless people with eyes set in this House to see what we are going to do, countless families and countless people who bring us daily situations of anxiety and uncertainty. There are dizzy changes, there are abuses, but there are also, Mr. Members, legislation which urgently needs to be changed, improved, transformed and reformed. Next Friday we will start a new round of parliamentary debates on the urban lease regime. There are already 12 diplomas presented for this debate, which will certainly be interesting, important and access. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group expresses here and now its willingness to build solutions in Parliament that deserve the support of the parliamentary majority and that actually improve people's lives. That, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most noble reason for the legislative power that has been entrusted to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u76	Mrs. Helena Roseta, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. In the meantime, I am informed that the honourable Member will respond to a set of two. First of all, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD welcomes Mrs Helena Roseta's work on issues and initiatives on urban rental. We ask: is this a crucial issue for Portuguese and Portugal? Yes, of course! We ask: Are there problems in the sector? True, there are problems in the sector! But there are also new realities in this sector that need to be followed. However, we can say that there is only one real lease market since the previous government has proposed a number of initiatives for this market to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u78	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u79	Until then it was a market that didn't work, it was a rigid market that didn't serve anyone. I didn't serve landlords or renters. It was a market that generated insecurity on all sides, which did not exist, simply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u81	Therefore, the PSD participates in this debate with great pleasure and tomorrow will also present a set of initiatives, in which we will defend our ideas. I begin with a first question to Mrs Helena Roseta: is this the Basic Law Helena Roseta or is it the Basic Law of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u83	It just doesn't look like what's going on around there! Doesn't look like it! And with regard to what is known, it seems that the PS is neither very lively nor very confident with the proposal put forward. Moreover, there are clear contradictions with the proposals put forward by the Government. For example, the honourable Member is proposing contributions — and it seems to us very well. However, the Government will shortly present seven legislative proposals on this subject, many of which are contradictory to its proposal. I ask you a second question: what is left over in your proposal? Requirements for devolved houses. In practice, forced requests. It reminds you of an old conversation about illegal occupations. But, curiously, the State, the largest owner of the built heritage, is not part of this discussion. In practical terms, it's not part of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u85	I'm done now, Mr. President. There are tens of thousands of abandoned public buildings and privates are required to be, once again, to respond by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u86	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u87	This cannot once again be a wrong initiative. For this reason, the question lies in the air: with this "PREC II" (the ongoing revolutionary process) of the "Roseta Plan", how does the Government's proposal remain? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u88	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to greet Mrs Helena Roseta for bringing this matter to debate in plenary. BE considers housing to be an elementary right, a fundamental right, and is constitutionally protected in the well-known article 65. the Constitution. But indeed, the fact that the problem of housing has never been placed as one of the great designs of the social state has been one of the difficulties, one of the deficits of our democracy. When it is said today that the State is one of the main owners, the truth is that our market, our housing park has only 2% of public housing. This is very significant if we compare with other essential rights of our social state, such as health, education, social security, where the State has a strong presence, with regulatory capacity, of clear public supply of these services. In the housing, that's not what happens. In practice, the State has resigned from guaranteeing the right to housing to most citizens. Today, this is not just about — and it was serious enough — a problem for citizens with lower incomes. Today, this problem reaches citizens with intermediate incomes and therefore it is essential that there is a basic law for housing, it is essential that this debate be brought to Parliament. That is why, once again, I would like to greet Mrs Helena Roseta for this fact, stating that the Left Block will clearly accompany the debate on the basic housing law. However, we must mention the following issue, which is also essential: at present we have thousands of families, thousands of people facing the housing crisis, with the housing emergency that currently lives in the country and, in particular, in the metropolitan areas. This is a dramatic situation, which affects thousands of people. They note that only in the national rental bank, which in practice is the waste bank, are entering more than 4000 requirements of lay-offs per year; income increases are perfectly speculative, without any sense, of duplication, triple, and even quadrupling the value of income at the end of a year of contract. It is an unacceptable situation, which needs to be collected and which needs to be tackled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u91	I shall now conclude, Mr President. In addition to the basic housing law, immediate measures are needed, which cannot be covered by the same law, but which must be addressed, in particular, the need for a moratorium on evictions until new legislation on this matter exists. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u92	In reply, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u93	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, on your question, whether it is the basic law of the dwelling of Helena Roseta, or whether it is the basic law of the PS Parliamentary Group, which I know is the basic law of the Parliamentary Group. If you want to put my name there, I'm very happy, but the project is signed by the President of the Parliamentary Group and by 20 more PS Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have had all the support of the PS Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Party and the Government. There is no contradiction between the basic law and the New Generation proposals. These are complementary and different things: the basic law provides for a more comprehensive regime in time and broader in goals; the New Generation provides for a national housing strategy, a national policy for housing government competence. We must go further in terms of basic law because it is necessary to say what the role of the authorities is, what the role of the autonomous regions is, what the role of the citizens, what the role of the social sector is, and this does not, in fact, appear in the public policy of the government, must be defined in a basic law. So these are complementary things. The honourable Member certainly did not have time to read, was concerned about the question of the requirements. I think that I may not have read the Constitution either, which has already been mentioned here. As Member of the Constituent, I participated in the elaboration of Article 65. o. However, Article 62. the Constitution, on private property rights, in paragraph 1, guarantees the right to private property and in paragraph 2, states that « the request and expropriation for public utility can only be made on the basis of the law and by payment of fair demining. That's what I'm talking about, everything else is a precipitate of a certain sector of society that is not interested in moving in anything, because it is very good for them to keep everything as it is. But it won't stay all the way you are, you can be sure! I would like to say to Mr Pedro Soares, whom I also thank for the question he asks, that I am very aware of priorities and emergencies, not only in the lease market, but also in the particular situations of precarious neighborhoods and people living in very difficult conditions. On the other hand, I also say to the PSD that the lease market already existed long before we were born, that is something that is old. Therefore, it is a little abusive to think that you were born with your law. It was not born with your law, it is very distorted, the law is very old, it is very distorted and needs to be reviewed and reformed. Mr Pedro Soares, we are available to discuss urgent measures. In fact, I don't know if you've had time to see it, but the PS presented Bill No. 854 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), which refers precisely to the extraordinary moratorium regime in order to avoid evictions in certain circumstances. So we're available for the discussion, we've always been. We have the sensitivity to the urgency that you brought here, we have always had it. And here we are to work in general and in specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u94	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helena Roseta, I welcome you and thank you for the topic you have brought here today, which is of the greatest importance. I wanted to begin by stating, of course, the full availability and commitment of the CDS to find solutions that improve the important issue of housing in Portugal. For this reason, we have already presented in this Parliament three legislative initiatives, to which others will be joined and with this wish. On this subject, the debate will take place in several sessions, in which we will be actively involved, but in this short period of time I have, I would like to ask you a question. As you know, the state in Portugal is the largest owner, has vast buildings throughout the country. For example, in the case of Lisbon, the Ministry of Finance, together with the City of Lisbon and the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon, are by far the three largest owners of the city of Lisbon, and the same is true in the city of Porto. But the question is that most of these buildings are abandoned, are returned. The state does not recover them and does not rent them. The Socialist Party and the Government have proposed a lot of serious measures on this issue of housing and, in these measures, they enshrine in the draft basic housing law the possibility of confiscating their fractions to the private. And, Mrs Deputy, and it has nothing to do with Article 62 ( 2 ). that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, because what is said in this draft basic law is « when the owner, unwarrantedly, has the devolved floor ». I do not know what this concept of unjustified is and it will certainly not be of public use, Mrs Deputy. So don't go that way, that's not what's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u97	Therefore, as I say, there is this possibility in the intention of VV. Ex.. On the other hand, they want, and well, to strengthen the market for affordable incomes practiced by private people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u98	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u99	The question I leave to you, Mrs Deputies, and because I do not have any more time, is the following: do you not think that the State should use its legacy that is being abandoned to address the problem of housing and to compensate the market for affordable income instead of spoiling owners and even guaranteeing housing at the expense of these?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u100	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u101	I'm done, Mr. President. In other words, the State does not, but wants to force the private to do. Do you agree with that, Your Honor? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u102	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u103	Mr President, Mrs. Helena Roseta, I would like to congratulate you on the subject which brought the debate. The issues relating to housing are indeed of great relevance in our country, given that access to housing is something that is not resolved. There are many and many families who have many difficulties in accessing housing. We have already stated here, but I think it is fair to reaffirm it, that of the set of rights which have been enshrined in the Constitution, the one who has evolved, even before all the attacks to which the others have been subjected, was that of housing. This obviously results from the political options of several governments over decades, in which there was no effective intervention, directly by the State in housing policy, and has been left in the hands of private individuals, economic groups, private interests, making housing, which is an essential asset for families, in another commodity subject to real estate speculation. In fact, the results are faced with the difficulties faced by families today. Exactly because it is a matter of great relevance, the CFP, already in this Parliament, brought to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, several proposals on housing. On lease issues, also on the initiative and schedule of the CFP, we will have the opportunity, on the next 4th of May, to deepen the discussion around these matters in order to find solutions that, on the one hand, prevent people from losing their housing, preventing their evictions and also preventing the speculative prices that exist today around the rental issues. Madam Member, we look at the set of proposals which have been announced by the Government, a set of concrete measures, and what we have, without prejudice, of course, to an in-depth analysis and reflection on them, is that the role of the State continues to be sidelined. The State continues to have a role of regulation, supervision and not a truly active and active role in housing policy. The question I wanted to leave to you, Mrs Deputies, was the following: for you, for the Socialist Party, what should the role of the State be in fact? Should it be a secondary role or should it be an intervention role to ensure that the right to housing is for everyone and to leave it at once for all not in the hands of the markets and the interests of the economic groups? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u104	In reply, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u105	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I think you are a little distracted because you say you want to confiscate, but no one spoke in confiscate, says that we want to do other terrible things and that the state is not setting the example, but you are distracted, because one of the most extraordinary things this Secretary of State has already done was something called the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, see Decree-Law No 150 / 2017. Mr Deputy, for the first time in Portugal, Habitat has been able to pass a diploma under which, until 30 March of each year, all public services of the central administration have to inform this Fund about whether there are buildings that are returned and can be applied in housing. This is the first time that happens. You know there are numerous buildings returned from numerous services, public enterprises, etc. , which are now obliged to participate every year, until 30 March, the buildings available, and the Fund must give them continuity and continuity. Therefore, you are distracted, you have not given it, you have not given it for the approval of the diploma, you have not given it for the resolution of the Council of Ministers. The Fund is already in force and has not given rise to the number of buildings in which the Fund is already working to put them into effect. So you're distracted, Mr. Deputies. Patience! For the next search prepare a little better. On the question posed by the CFP, I would like to say that the State must of course have a direct promotion role and it is not fair to say that this government does not have it because it launched the First Law programme. Mrs Deputy, since 2009 we have no money in the State budget for resettlement programmes, or we have absolutely no business. The First Law is the first programme to be worth, in terms of realisation and public promotion, which is currently in the presence and which we will certainly see developing with the corresponding financial package. But there is more, Mrs Deputy: Rule 65. the Constitution states at a certain time that the State will adopt a policy to establish a system of income compatible with family income. What is this but a state regulatory function? It is this regulatory function which is in the Constitution, which we assume, which we want to assume and which, of course, with the effort of all Members here — because I think that everyone wants to guarantee the right to housing in Portugal — we will be able to improve, because it is not right. People do not have access to housing and the State is not properly fulfilling its regulatory role. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We moved on to the third political declaration. To this end, Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard today, for the last time, the President of EDP denies the existence of excessive incomes in the electric sector, as if that was still the debate. In 2004 the opinion of ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) to the Decree-Law of the Government of Durão Barroso had negative price impacts and quantified a future overcost beyond the expected profitability. In 2012 a study commissioned by the PSD Government / CDS, by the Secretary of State Henrique Gomes to Cambridge Associates, placed the excessive charge above EUR 2000 million. In 2013, there was a recommendation by the Competition Authority to the Coelho Government for the review of CMECs ( cost of maintaining the contractual balance ), « with the intent... », I am quoting «... to eliminate the negative effects on competition and harm to the interests of consumers ». In 2017, ESRB again acknowledged that CMECs made it possible to move to a less demanding framework than the previous scheme — that of the EACs (energy acquisition contracts) — for holders of electro-produced centres, with an increase of cost estimated at around 510 million euros. In the political sphere itself, the existence of these excessive incomes has long been recognized and diagnosed. It is sufficient to see the resolution adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in 2017, with the vote of all parties and the abstention of the PSD, in which it is recognised that the Government should take the necessary initiatives to eliminate excessive income in the electrical sector, in particular in CMECs. It is therefore a consistent consensus. There are excessive incomes and only in the transition from EACs to CMECs exceed 500 million euros charged to more consumers, numbers of the regulatory entity. The constitution of Manuel Pinho, Minister of the Economy of the Government headed by José Socrates, in a case of favouring EDP, created justified public apprehension, aggravated by more recent information regarding the regular receipt of payments from Banco Espírito Santo. Corruption undermines democracy. It becomes unbearable to suspect the existence of a mesada scheme that should be decided solely on the basis of the public interest. These suspicions of corruption will be investigated at the judicial level, but Parliament has a duty to find out all the facts and all the political responsibilities in creating excessive incomes in the electrical system, and former Minister Manuel Pinto has played an important role in this process. That is why the parliamentary commission of inquiry now proposed by the Left Block includes in its object the investigation of the existence of corruption in holders of political positions empowered to define these excessive incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal holds sad records in the prices of electricity in European terms, which go hand in hand with the high rates of energy poverty and cold mortality rates. But there is another record that distinguishes our country, which is the intensity with which the rotating door between politics and business works, leading and bringing protagonists of governments and high business hierarchys. Only this promiscuity can explain that for so many years such great abuses have been maintained and with such serious economic and social consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u109	Since 2017, CMEC represents EUR 2500 million in charge of electricity consumers. According to the Competition Authority, this income guaranteed between 2009 and 2012 a third of EDP’s profits before taxes. Those who are questioned about the scope of the object of this investigation committee — income in the electric sector — we respond with a maximum of fame attributed to the source of the Watergate case, Follow the money, i.e. follow the trail of money. Who won with the decisions made? When and who took them? What was he based on? How did you decide? And finally, of course, why did you decide to give so many millions to win? The country needs full scrutiny not only of the CMEC processes, but of all the abusive incomes that have been installed in the light account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u111	It is not worth hiding the sun with a sieve, in this case, with only one minister. With or without corruption, a scheme so powerful, so millionaire, so complex that it knocks down consumers because of the electric bill, it could only be installed and kept up to date with laws, in decision-making processes marked by promiscuity between governments and businesses. It is this scheme that the Committee of Inquiry now proposed by the Left Block on Energy Income should be able to unmask. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u112	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I was informed that the honourable Member responds to two at a time. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Left Block on the subject. The honourable Member had the particularity of setting out a set of dates, which are important, but he omitted, I do not know whether or not, the year 2007 the year in which all this took place. He spoke in 2004, in 2012, but forgot in 2007 and therefore the first question is whether the omission was deliberate in his speech or whether it was indeed not. I would also like to tell you the following: in fact, we are available to understand everything, and this cannot be used to realise that we want to know everything around a certain person, forgetting the whole network and the whole web that is around.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u115	For this they don't count on the PSD. Therefore, we sincerely hope that all this action of the Left Block, a little tow of media events and the PSD initiative, is not just and only to help confuse and disguise. In good rigour, when we talk about excessive incomes and billboards given to large energy companies, there is another date that you have also omitted: 2016, in which, with your vote, with the vote on the whole left, a tax bill was given, which EDP accounted for in its balance sheet of EUR 170 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u116	Of EUR 170 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u117	... as we have long denounced here. [[PSD applause.]] And it was not with our vote, Mr. Therefore, I do not know whether, in the energy field too, the Left Block is finally available to join us and combat a highly unfair tax, which is also energy, which is the ISP (charge on oil and energy products) which penalises Portuguese citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. If it is, in fact, to help, to contribute to a different and definitive solution, my dear, here we are. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u118	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u119	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, of course, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. The issues raised here, in particular from the information that has recently been disseminated about processes that have to do with successive examples of subordination of PS governments, PSD or CDS to economic power, are, in fact, elements of concern, because they are elements, circumstances and situations that corrode the democratic regime and which, of course, must be denounced and combated, as the CFP has always done. These situations are worrying not only in the circumstances in which they involve turnover between government members and boards of administration of large economic groups, between those who decide within the scope of political power and those who benefit from economic power, but are also worrying about what they reveal, for example, with the scandalous contracts of public-private partnerships (PPI), with the privatization of public enterprises, with many situations which are confirmed as examples of this subordination of successive governments to economic power and how it takes place. These situations are, moreover, indissociable from the recovery of monopolistic power, from external taxation, in particular from the imposition by the European Union, for example, with limitations on the participation of the State in strategic sectors, which lead to privatizations and the privatization processes themselves which generate this whole framework of trafficking in influences, corruption situations that undermine the democratic regime. The question I would like to raise, Mr Jorge Costa, is whether it is only in the energy sector and whether it is only about the energy income issues that the Left Block believes there is this problem, if, in the perspective of the Left Block, these concerns are limited only to the energy sector, to privatizations within the energy sector and to energy incomes, or whether they are also related to the situations, for example, of road PPPs, Lusoponte, Bridge 25 April, concessions in the road area, the privatisation of Portugal Telecom and CTTs, the successive scandals of the bank, starting with the BSE/GES scandal, but also with BPP, BCP, Banif, and so many other situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u120	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. What I ask you is whether the Left Block agrees that this is an exclusive matter in the energy sector or whether, in fact, it permeates other sectors, and whether the Left Block is available to extend the object of the parliamentary commission of inquiry so that it is not only in relation to energy income but also to all other sectors, other privatizations and PPPs, in which these problems of corruption and the traffic of influence are placed. I therefore ask whether there too the Assembly of the Republic should not lead a parliamentary inquiry. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u122	You have the floor to answer, Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u123	Mr President, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, has escaped from the issue of energy incomes to talk about taxation, but has failed to run there because this is not a field where the PSD is comfortable. The PSD had in its electoral programme in 2015 the EESC's elimination (extraordinary contribution to the energy sector) paid by the country's electricity companies and large energy companies. It was the best news that António Mexia could have had, but the PSD had already, perhaps due to some bad concern about the outcome of the elections, taken a small step: Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Artur Trindade, two days before the elections of 5 October 2015, produced an order for EDP to be able to charge the costs of the EESC for consumers. Therefore, the PSD played in both lanes: if it won the elections, it would end with the EESC; if it didn't win, it would be a little bit to see if the EESC didn't count. Fortunately, the Attorney-General of the Republic gave reason to the government when it was investigated and that order was annulled, returning this money to the taxpayers' purse, because that is how justice determines it. Therefore, the tax field is not good for the PSD to enter this debate, but, as I said from the outset, the Left Block is open to the discussion of what is the scope and what are the objectives of this committee of inquiry, and it is true that, if you have heard my speech correctly, I have explicitly—and I am going to repeat now — that since 2007 the CMECs represent EUR 2, 5 million and former Minister Manuel Pinho has had an important role in this process. So, on our part, there is no « skeleton in the closet » and we hope that there is also no PSD, which certainly has good reason to get it out of there. I am also grateful for the question put by Mr João Oliveira and I would like to say that we certainly agree with him on the problem of promiscuity between politics and businesses in general and on the effects it has on essential aspects of our economy. In fact, the Left Bloc has been proposing — Mr President — in 2012, precisely a committee of inquiry on road PPPs and, therefore, our concern is not specific to the energy sector or the electrical sector, is a more general concern. A draft health-based law, proposed by João Semedo and António Arnaut of the Socialist Party, was also recently introduced, which concerns precisely the need to eliminate the public-private partnerships of the management of the National Health Service, so we have a view on the wear of public interest and the damage, in terms of the accounts of the State, which exists in many—in fact, in the majority—of these processes of public-private partnership, resulting, in general, from the privatizations that have been conducted over the last decades. With regard to the scope of the committee of inquiry we propose that today we have a social cry for clarification and scrutiny about what has been the energy policy of successive governments, about what was the installation in the electric bill of consumers of abusive incomes, of illegitimate extraction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u124	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u125	... of illegalities committed against the public interest and we believe that this is the opportunity to respond to this cry and to produce these clarifications. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u126	To request clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u127	Mr President, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, first of all I thank you for bringing this issue to Parliament and I would like to begin by saying, on behalf of the Socialist Party, that the Socialist Party will do everything and will contribute to what is possible to ensure all transparency and all the supervision it has to exist in this matter, in order to deepen what needs to be further elaborated and detect what needs to be detected. I also wanted to say that when the Socialist Party reached the Government the energy cost, in particular the cost of electricity, was the highest in Europe, as you well know. Since the beginning of a hard battle, a difficult battle to ensure that there could be reductions in the cost of energy, in particular in the cost of electricity but also in natural gas. This was possible and today is a reality, electricity and natural gas are cheaper. In fact, we did this recognizing that there were obstacles to reducing these costs and some of these barriers were even incomes. I would like to stress that we do not look at this issue, we face the issue and, Mr, this is very clearly contrasting with what the PSD said and did. In fact, he said it through a supposed PSD authority, ex-Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva, in 2014 when he was a government, and I will read : « There are no more excessive energy revenues ». This was the sentence that the PSD gave in 2014 and it is relatively strange that now emerges as the « savior of the country » in this regard, which may mean that the Member, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has no legitimacy to speak in this matter because he has never spoken so in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u128	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u129	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask Mr Jorge Costa, who has already mentioned the matter, what we can say to a party that, when he was in government, one day from the elections, on a Saturday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u130	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u131	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, what can we think of a party that, when it was in the government, one day at the elections, on a Saturday, decided to sign an order to ensure that the costs, not only of access, as you mentioned, but also of the social energy tariff, would pass into the lap and into the consumer purse and not remain in the hands of the companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u132	For a final request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u133	Mr President, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, I would also like to congratulate you on your statement and tell you that on the part of the CDS, as we did in the morning in the Commission, voting in favour of the request for the hearing of former Minister Manuel Pinho, we will be perfectly available to cooperate in the committee of inquiry dealing with different matters, accessible incomes. And you are absolutely right, because we also want to know why we paid so much and so long. But we want more. We also want to know, so that there is no demagogy here nor is it going only on the foam of the days, what are the proposals of each parliamentary group, in the case of the Left Block, for what was a necessary reduction in fossil energy dependence. How is the wager made on renewables? How would governments comply with international agreements, since then Kyoto, 1998. As has been said here, it was in 2004, but essentially in 2007, which created the PRE, the Production in Special Regime, which created the CMECs, the CEEs, the power guarantee, and also called consumers to pay via ICEG ( energy policy costs, sustainability and general economic interest ), which represent about 40 % of the invoice. It is, in fact, a lot and it is for a long time, so we want to know everything. But we also want to know whether the Left Block wants to do only what is visible in the proposals presented here, and that it is, for example, to renationalize the REN, or whether you want to come to the game of reality, and the game of reality, as you said, and well, it is following the money. And, Mr. Deputy, following the money, three questions: do you know what Decree-Law No 66 / 2016 is? You've already been asked. It is the revaluation of GALP, EDP and REN assets. You voted in favour of one of these companies, in addition to the others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u134	But we can go further, following the money. Are you really sure consumers won't pay the digital counters? You have also approved Article 85. that of the State budget, where it is said that the municipal transit law rate would not be transferred to consumers, it has to be paid by the companies, and I can give you a copy of an invoice of the EDP in which this does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u135	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u136	I'm done now, Mr. President. You in the speech and in the proposals say one thing, tear the clothes off by attacking the only government that has so far had legislative instruments to reduce affordable incomes, the previous government, with decrees, proposals and carriers in cogeneration, at CMEC, and I ask you to bring an example of another government that has ever reduced a euro that was in excessive incomes. So on this matter we are at ease.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u137	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u138	But now, Mr President, on these three questions, tell me what the Left Block has to say. Follow the money! I wonder why you approved the revaluation of assets and why do you have the (subsoil occupancy rate) in the consumer's invoice?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u139	To reply, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u140	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Pereira, the price of energy was high when the PS reached the government and it is still. The truth is that the PS has achieved the fact that it is not firing, that there is no increase every year, in the house of 3%. It was that cycle we came from. And it did so because this was one of the policy sectors of the government where the negotiation and joint work with the parties on the left was more intense, resulting in concrete gains for consumers. The truth is that we have managed to avoid the cycle of increases but we have not yet managed to lower the bill and that is also a way to go. In fact, this path has been made of obstacles. We all remember the last State budget and the importance of the debate on the contribution of renewables, proposed by the Block. We will return to this subject sooner than later, wait for us, and here we are to take that path. The episode that counts - I said to him both in the case of the social tariff as well as in the case of the EESC (extraordinary contribution to the energy sector) - shows clearly what the ease and proximity that existed in many times between the last decades between PSD/CDS governments — in this case, with this last-minute decree in the run-up to the elections — and the powers established and the large electricity companies. Mr Hélder Amaral, on the issue that has raised about how the transition is made to renewables, I would say that as it does not go to the background of what are even the European guidelines on renewable energy subsidisation. Its government, the government that the CDS supported, decided to extend the subsidies to renewable producers — and 100 % of the producers accepted and certainly joined the business was good! — the exchange of voluntary contributions. It is EUR 20 million per year, over seven years by 2020, which will amount to EUR 140 million, at best, that these producers will have, at the expense of everything that happens in Europe and in the world, a guaranteed rate for seven years. The calculations, above all, to maintain the lines of what is currently energy price, give 800 million additional costs for consumers of energy in the invoice, thanks to this extension of subsidies to renewable energy. These subsidies were needed at first and no one ever called into question. The introduction of these technologies imposes these public support, but today they are only an excessive income, they are only an abuse of consumers. Mr Hélder Amaral, I tell you what I said to the PSD: do not run for the tax issue, it was on your programme to end the EESC, it was on your programme to release the electricity companies from the extraordinary contribution to bring down the tariff deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u141	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u142	Therefore, Mr President, in order to finish, on the question of smart meters, this is what is envisaged in the State budget, i.e. it should be the companies to pay. That is what the Left Block voted and if this is not happening is matter for the supervision of the Republic Assembly, and the Left Block is, as it has been on all issues, vigilante and intervening on these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u143	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we have had the confirmation and we have become aware through the social communication that the Government received, in November last year, the report of the internal audit of the National Civil Protection Authority, requested by the former Minister Urban Constance de Sousa and delivered in November to current Minister Eduardo Cabrita. Of course, and according to what the press, in particular the public newspaper, reports today, this report contains facts that are of the greatest gravity. According to the news coming to the public, what this report says is that in relation to Pedrogão Grande has been destroyed — I repeat, destroyed — fundamental evidence of a tragic event that has taken the lives of 67 of our citizens. Digital evidence, destroyed evidence on paper, hidden from chaos, disorganization and lack of means that was the tragedy of Pedragão Grande was destroyed. Action plans have disappeared, tactical situation tables have disappeared and paper documents have been destroyed. Here and in view of this, regardless of the content of the report that this Parliament knows only through the media, there is an obvious first question: why did the current Government and the current Minister of Internal Administration hide and conceal such an important report from the country? Why? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Why was this report kept secret for six months—I repeat, six months—for the whole country? In addition to this obvious question, we must also ask the Government for a number of other clarifications, of course: what consequences has the government taken from this same report, knowing that it reports failure of means, failure of action, failure of command and disorganization? What consequences? On the basis of this report, are there disciplinary procedures or not? How many disciplinary processes and addressed to whom? What amendments does the Government intend to make, from this report, to prepare for the future? This matter cannot be hidden and cannot be hidden. That is why the CDS has already taken the initiative today to require the Government to be sent to this House, of course, so that Members can get to know it and examine it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a pattern here. We are talking about the same government that has tried, up to the last and to the limit, that the report by Mr Xavier Viegas was not known by this Parliament and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] We are talking, Mr Neto Brandão, of the same government which, immediately following the fires of Great Pedrogon - it is worth mentioning - imposed on the National Civil Protection Authority itself a "roll law" so that the commanders could not say what problems and difficulties they were facing. We are talking about the same Government of the Socialist Party and of the same Socialist Party that, in relation to obvious and indispensable hearings, such as that of Colonel Albino Tavares — curiously, is one of the men mentioned in relation to the "fiest of time" and which has been renamed by this Minister as deputy of the National Civil Protection Authority — they have only been complicated, seeking to obstruct them. We are talking about a clear pattern of concealment based on a cloak of darkness, while the government is trying to make — and always does — propaganda and more propaganda. What do we have today? We have a minister who says: "Well, the CDS and PSD are retrograde. They have not yet realized that the time of fires is over and that now the time of fires is every day." If it is every day, we ask: today, how many air resources does the government have? Today, we're 28! Today, two 55, 28 are missing! If it is every day, the government is failing day after day. You fail today, you will fail tomorrow and you will continue to fail. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Minister continues to resolve the issue of Traces' license. We also know - and it is news today - that the great solution the Government was going to present to solve the problem would be that of the new teams, the EIPs (permanent intervention teams), work from nine to five hours, public officials time, 40 hours a week. Once again, there is a lot of propaganda, the spread is huge and reality is minimal, tiny or almost invisible. As far as air resources are concerned, the Minister said this weekend: 'Let's now make the civil request'. Let's ask: How? When? What means? With what solutions? More: the Minister said he would acquire—and I don't know whether it is to acquire, whether it is to rent, whether it is — three Kamov. That is, a government led by António Costa bought six Kamovs; of these six, three have been inoperative for years and the place where they were in the last three was closed the other day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u145	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u146	And now you're going to buy three more Kamovs for direct adjustment and no international competition at all? Oh, my God! It is absolutely incomprehensible, it is a mixture of propaganda and concealment. Finally, Mr President, saying that we are demanding and do not accept this propaganda, but we are prepared to use all parliamentary means at our disposal so that what the Government has tried to hide is public, so that it does not hide the Portuguese, the country and Parliament the seriousness of what happened in Pedrogão Grande. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u147	Mr Telmo Correia, the Bureau registered four Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u148	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u149	That is why Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u150	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I am sorry that you tell him but his speech was deplorable. And it was deplorable because it was ostensibly lacking in the truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think there's an ethical duty to tell the truth. But the honourable Member has said a number of things that are not true and it is not the speedy reading which he did this morning of the headlines of the newspapers that allow him to come to Parliament to say what he said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u151	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u152	He knows that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has not denied a single request made by whoever it was and to hear whoever it was about fires. He knows that today the Ministry of Internal Administration issued a note stating that he sent the report last November to the Public Prosecutor's Office for the necessary purposes. You know that perfectly, but you have not been able to say why it is not for you. The honourable Member cannot be an objective and the debate on fires deserves much more from us than the sad figures — forgive me! — which I have just attended in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He spoke of Prof. Xavier Viegas' report, but he knew that the only data that had not been distributed were those that the National Data Protection Commission had suggested he could not put. And the honourable Member has not been able to say it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Shame! There are limits!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u153	There are limits, sir! Taking into account those people, those families and the victims to whom they often refer, you should not make the sad figures you made today in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u154	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u155	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, we have no doubt that, when it comes to due standing, it will be important for both the CFP Parliamentary Group and all parliamentary groups to have access to all the documentation produced by the Government. We cannot ignore, in a serious exercise that deserves the matter, that first, whoever requested the audit was the Ministry of Internal Administration itself and, second, that audit was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is significant and it is important to highlight why it does not meet the criteria of the concealment which you have set out here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the sending of this document to the Public Prosecutor's Office is particularly relevant in that there is an ongoing criminal procedure in which two of the commanders are accused, who are entitled to their defence and presumption of innocence. As such, it is up to the courts to determine criminal responsibilities. Once we have completed the clearance of criminal responsibilities, we will be here to draw political illusions, as we all do in this Parliament. Mr President, I would like to refer to this request for clarification in the following way: whoever hears it has the idea that the CDS is essentially concerned with making a number, an intervention, a folklore, a political rhetoric exercise and not solving the specific problems it faces. We did not need this information, this report and this audit to realize that there were problems of organisation, insufficiency and incapacity for civil protection. We all knew about this, so we didn't need this document to know. However, the CFP Parliamentary Group presented a legislative initiative addressing the problems of civil protection and the CSD contributed to the failure of this initiative to solve the specific problems. Two or three weeks ago, we presented a draft resolution proposing 20 measures for a new civil protection policy. What was the result of the vote on this draft resolution? With the votes against the PSD and the abstentions from the CDS, PS and PAN, the project was rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u156	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u157	Thus, it prevented a discussion on the 20 concrete proposals that were submitted for the resolution of the problems identified in the field of civil protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u158	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u159	Finally, Mr President, with the following question: Mr President, how does the concern you expressed in your political statement with the meaning of the CDS vote on that initiative, which has thus prevented the analysis and resolution of the specific problems of civil protection? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u160	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions you have raised. I'm beginning with the end because I'm more direct about the answer. Mr. Jorge Machado, with regard to the proposals, the CDS has never stolen from any debate, on the contrary, sought to boost the debate several times. We have our proposals and every proposal made by the parliamentary groups will have our reading, will be evaluated in the light of its merit and will therefore have a certain meaning of vote. I can't tell you more than this. Mr Fernando Anastácio, I am curious about the approach some parliamentary groups, including their approach to this type of matter. We spoke here today, and the country has also discussed this issue, it has been a matter of the last few days, of the holding of a committee of inquiry in relation to the performance of the Socialist Party Government, not of the current but of the previous one, that is, of what has been over a few years ago. On that, of course, there is great excitement on the part of you—I think it is right and the CDS has already said that it would be viable, because we have no problem with that—but it is because we are talking about a government that has not been in office for a long time. But I ask Mr. Jorge Machado: what would your Parliamentary Group say if it had been a PSD/CDS government to hide a report, not to mention it and keep it in the drawer since November? What did the gentlemen say? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Being now, there's no problem. The honourable Member will not be left with any answer to the question of 'hidden'. Of course, none of us knew about this report, Parliament did not know, we only knew that the previous minister had requested the report. That's it, we didn't know anything else. So if you want to scandalize yourself very much with this issue, I suggest that you scandalize yourself with all of the media—with the Public, with the Correio de Manhã, with the TVI—because whoever did the news and who created the headlines today was not the CDS. Of two, one : either the news is true or not true. In other words, it is true that the government has had the report since November or is not true. [[PS protests.]] What the honourable Member said was different. The honourable Member said that he found an explanation for having this matter hidden since November and the best explanation that the Government has managed to find was that some facts contained in the report have been taken part in the Public Prosecutor's Office and would therefore be under the cover of justice. It is not acceptable, Mr. If the Government had said — and I have asked Mr. Minister of Internal Administration several times, either in the Commission or in plenary — that he received the report, which he held in his possession, that he indicates serious facts and if he had classified it and sent it to the Public Prosecutor's Office, not hiding it, it would have been different, but that is not what he did. The government hid Prof. Xavier Viegas' report, giving the idea that it did not want the country to know and attempt to prevent, regardless of what the National Data Protection Commission said, that it was known, in addition to the Socialist Party caused difficulties in conducting the hearings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u162	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u163	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, we only want one thing: the truth. If you want to talk about the victims, no one else wants that truth. And it is precisely on behalf of the victims and their families that it is not acceptable for these matters to be hidden. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u164	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is indeed too serious to lend itself to heated interventions and heated indignation. What has been said here by Mr Telmo Correia makes all the sense. What the CDS Parliamentary Group wants is also what the PSD Parliamentary Group wants: only the truth and so alone. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u166	The Portuguese have the right to know what happened on the day of the Pedrogan fires and have the right to know why the government has not publicly disclosed the report—it is not in the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is publicly! — as you have done with other reports, with the GNR, the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), the Independent Technical Commission. Why didn't you make it public and send it to the Assembly of the Republic and even to the newspapers? Why didn't you do that with this report? Because this report is — don't hurt me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — it is uncomfortable for the government and the government to try to hide everything that is uncomfortable for you. This idea of sending things to the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to find a pretext not to discuss publicly causes soon a concern. Has the government already explained whether this report has been classified as a secret or a secret? He hasn't come to explain that yet. Who says this report is in a secret justice process? Now it's the MAI who says what's in the secret of justice and what's not? Oh, my God! It's the Public Prosecutor's Office! We don't know anything about it and it's important that things be clarified. That is why the PSD has made a request today for the report to be given to us, to know everything there is, without taking or putting. We do not want to bury the « head in the sand», as the ostrich does, and you cannot want to do it either. The PS is a party with responsibility and in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u167	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u168	And, finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter what we want is exactly that: that things be placed on the table with clarity, transparency and clarity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u169	For a final request for clarification of the previous political statement, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block considers — and with due respect for the secret of justice and the separation of powers — that the knowledge of all facts, of all events, difficulties, problems and needs relating to the fires of last summer, in particular the fire of Great Pedrogon, is absolutely crucial for the role of supervision and due monitoring by Parliament. Therefore, the partial or avous information does not, in our view, guarantee the effectiveness of this role of Parliament, so access to comprehensive information is therefore vital. We believe that the comprehensive report with all the information on faults or missing documents should be made known to Members and Members as soon as it is released from the sphere of justice and as soon as possible. In addition, we also want to consult the Independent Technical Commission this afternoon, following the plenary hearing in 1. the Commission would be aware of the content of this report from the National Directorate for Audit and Monitoring of the National Civil Protection Authority. We also believe that the Government and Parliament have the responsibility to require full and transparent access to information, not only in view of the necessary clearance of what has happened and the necessary clearance of responsibilities, but also in view of learning and to allow the necessary measures to be taken to effectively prevent and combat fires. But the lack of means, the lack of equipment, the lack of human resources, the lack of elements in civil protection, the problems with which civil protection is debated, the degradation of the means, obsolete equipment, the problem of air resources, all this is known and was mentioned in Mr Telmo Correia's intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u171	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u172	I will finish, Mr. President. All of this is widely known by all and by all of us and all of this has been widely discussed, but it is also known by all of us that all of this is the result of years of disinvestment to which the CDS and PSD are not others and cannot even excuse this responsibility. Therefore, this is a point that needs to be mentioned and it is also necessary for the CDS and PSD to assume this responsibility for de-investment in civil protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u173	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u174	Mr President, first of all, on the question put by Mr Peixoto, I would like to say that we agree. Moreover, we could not agree more, the PSD delivered this request and we would therefore also have the same position on the need for this document to be given, and urgently, to Parliament. It is also well observed for you, Mr Peixoto, that the government is not in fact responsible for establishing the secret of justice and for defining what is or is not in the secret of justice; what appears in this case is obviously an excuse for the fact that the government has kept this report in the drawer or has hidden from the country for six months. However, there are other issues that are also important to know, because there may be criminal matters and, let's see, we are talking about facts with gravity, namely: destruction of evident evidence of the failures that have occurred in Pedrogão Grande and that have led to the death of 67 people: deleted time tapes; destroyed paper documents; documents and records that were on deleted cars. We are therefore talking about facts with this seriousness and this can be a criminal matter, but there is also the disciplinary issue and there are many other issues which, of course, it is up to Parliament to know, monitor and monitor, and we agree on that. However, the honourable Members. Members, and I understand, have focused very much on the first part of my speech, but let me - let me draw their attention to the second part, because in fact - and this goes very well with what Mrs Sandra Cunha said now - if, on the one hand, the government, in relation to the past, seems to want to hide, already in relation to the present, large breast statements made, makes great statements at major events, with organisation, great announcements, so to speak, but then what is done seems to be, again, very little and very little capable. No air resources, nothing! 28's missing! This civil request announcement now seems like a thing without big connection or great content. The question of Kamov is at least strange. So, Minister António Costa, at the time, bought six Kamov, they don't work, they don't go and now they're going to do what? Oh, my God! Buy another three? Making a contract for the acquisition of three more? With a contest? No international competition? By right adjustment? What's this? Oh, my God! Where are we? All this has to be clarified, all this has to be seen, of course, Mrs. Member, to do what she says is to safeguard the future, because if it is true that the investment was not necessary it is also true that last year this investment was below what had been in previous years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u176	... and it is no less true that after the tragedies of last year, whether that of Pedragão Grande or the tragedy of the fires that took place in October, what was said by the government was that there would be a huge reinforcement of means and the government now, in despair of cause, comes to say: «We will now guarantee everything, we will now make a civil request». But it is appropriate, Mrs. Sandra Cunha,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u177	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u178	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. It is appropriate, Mrs Sandra Cunha, to consider the following: the airway contract ended in 2017; the government took office in 2015; then, the government had two years to deal with this matter. Zero! At the end of the hour he launched a first contest, zero! He launched a second contest, failed! It is now that you are announcing what appears to be very dear to the country and that it will obviously be the price of incompetence. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u179	For the next political statement, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, after 132 years of 1 May, it is an immense moment and a demand for the fight for employment with rights. Today, in 2018, the struggle for 8 hours of work and hours that respect personal, family and professional life is a central requirement of workers. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, we live times marked by new scientific and technological advances and an intense debate on their impacts. We are therefore called to decide and to point the way forward. In fact, science and technology are instruments for emancipation and improving the living conditions of workers and peoples and not instruments for aggravating exploitation. These scientific and technological advances can and should serve the development of the country, reducing the time, precariousness and penoness of work. Today, we have in our hands the decision on what development model we want for the country: to put the potential of science and technology at the service of progress and social justice or, on the contrary, to serve only the accumulation of profit from a minority? Scientific and technological advances are not incompatible with workers' rights, on the contrary, scientific and technological advances should allow for better working and living conditions, modernization of the production process and job creation, with rights, of course. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: After 132 years since 1 May, Portuguese workers have many good reasons to fight. It was the struggle that defeated the PSD Government / CDS and allowed the change of the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, blocking the path of retrogression and opening the way for the replacement of rights and income, and today is the struggle waged at the workplace, from transport to hotel, from large areas to industry, in the public sector and in the private sector, which requires the need to defend and conquer rights. Every day that passes, while maintaining the most serious standards of labour law, is a day less for the development of the country. Let the workers of the great surfaces, the Pink Doce, the Lidl and the Mini-price Day, say that these days have caught a brave strike for better wages and times. That is what the stockholders and researchers who still fought against precariousness say today. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u181	The PS Government cannot continue to delay the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code. At any time that the PS joins the PSD and the CDS to keep labour legislation intact, it is the workers and the country who lose. It was thus recently, with the maintenance of the cut-off of holiday days and hourly banks; with the non-replacement of the value of the payment of additional work; with the maintenance of the expiry of the collective contract and the non-replacement of the most favourable treatment to the worker. But there is absolutely no doubt: the choice by cutting wages and pensions and the withdrawal of rights has always meant impoverishment, but also recession and unemployment; the defence, replacement and conquest of rights is indispensable for the lives of workers, but it has always meant economic growth and job creation. Mr President and Mr Deputies, yesterday throughout the country, in the interior, as for several decades, and on the coast and in more than 40 localities, many thousands of workers responded to the call from the CGTP-IN and demanded: the general increase in wages in the private sector, in the business sector of the State and in the Public Administration ; the increase in the national minimum wage to 650 € in January 2019 ; the defence of collective employment; the end of their expiry and replacement of the most favourable treatment; the 35 hours of work for all, in the public and private sectors, and the repeal of the hourly and other mechanisms for the deregulation of hours of work; the end of precarious employment with rights, so that a permanent job is always an effective bond in public services and in the private sector; the strengthening and hiring of professionals in health, education, social security, justice and culture; the valuing of long-term contributory careers, without penalties, after 40 years of discounts. On the 18th day of this month, the CFP will bring to the discussion a proposal on 35 working hours for all workers and the elimination of time deregulation mechanisms. BATTER-CL - we will - by fixing the national minimum wage at 650 € in January 2019. [[PCP applause.]] The rights of workers have never been offered by any government; the rights of workers have always, but always, been won with their brave struggle. But it will reveal the PS government's options to ignore the fairness of the workers' struggle, while keeping with the PSD and CDS the serious standards of labour law. from the PCP we have no doubt, we know which side we are on: we are on the side of the workers, their rights and the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u182	Four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u183	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u184	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u185	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, would like to welcome you for your intervention, greet the workers who went out on the street yesterday in struggle for their rights and acknowledge that we have a problem: the logic of the accumulation of capitalism makes innovation and the gains of technological innovations translate into a private appropriation of the gains that are produced and not into socialization by way of, inter alia, better working conditions and the general reduction of working time. Today, we could have a society in which we worked much less hours, where there was more time to live, and when we discussed political participation here, when we discussed access to culture, when we discussed the reconciliation of work with family life here, when we discussed the problems of care we are also or should be discussing reducing working hours. There is a second problem which is that of the deep imbalance which has been introduced into labour law, and the honourable Member has said so. We know that with the labour legislation coming from the PSD and the CDS, but in some respects it had already come from the 2003 Labour Code and the 2009 Labour Code, we know again that there is a deep imbalance which has disrupted the schedules, which introduced the bank of hours, in particular the individual hour bank, which has increased the grounds for being able to contract in time, in order to be able to resort to the slavery of temporary work, which has represented a deep transfer of income from work to capital. And on each of these matters, whether on dismissals, whether on schedules or on combating precariousness, whether on rebuilding collective bargaining by replacing the principle of the most favourable treatment or the end of the expiry of the conventions, above all we are wasting time and we need to make these changes. But we also need to make other changes and we also need to have new gains, new answers like those that respond, for example to shift workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u186	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u187	I wanted to finish with the following note: apart from the law, we know how between law and practice goes a giant step. That is why we need not only a state that controls as a worker with organizational capacity and demands compliance with its rights in the workplace. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u188	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Rita Rato, in her statement on 1. May brings us technological developments. You're absolutely right. We must all be committed to discussing, in dialogue, all the implications that technological evolution will bring to the world of work, to economic development, to prosperity and well-being, which we want for our country. The first situation, more than just the word of the honourable Member — and there the great dichotomy between our benches and our parties — is that we do not defend the struggle for struggle, we defend dialogue, conciliation and conciliation. from there the bet that my Parliamentary Group supports trade unions that dialogue with employers, that promote social dialogue, that promote collective bargaining and that seek to discuss these matters in this forum. And I discussed them not only in the plans in which the honourable Member put them, but above all — and most importantly —, asking the question which the honourable Member has never mentioned, which is to demand more and better qualifications for all workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u191	This is because only qualified workers, only permanently updated workers can guarantee their jobs, can dialogue and try to show that they have more right to receive better wages because they produce more quality because they do not allow themselves to exceed technological advances. How is it that Mrs Deputy, who spoke of the single gallery and exclusively in the fight — we know well! — if you feel with a government, of which you support, which does not even plan for the year 2018 to increase the salary of civil servants? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u192	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u193	Look, Mrs. Member, perhaps requesting the listing of the 50 largest deposit box debtors there for many years increases to public officials. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u194	Of all banks. It's not just the Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u195	In response to the first two requests for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Soeiro and Mr Maria das Mercês Borges, thank you for the questions you have raised. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, workers do not invoke the struggle for struggle. Lidl's workers were on strike, from the outset, demanding respect for exactly what Mrs Deputies said, i.e. by the right to vocational training, which is enshrined in the law and I deny this German multinational.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u197	Authority for Labour and Government Conditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u198	In the first place, workers are entitled to 35 hours of vocational training and employers are not insured.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u199	Authority for Labour and Government Conditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u200	So the fight is not for the fight. More than half of Lidl's 6000 workers are in part-time and sometimes not 300 € take home. Therefore, they are struggling for better wages and working hours that enable them to reconcile professional life with family life. This is not the struggle for struggle, it is the struggle for which it is primary, which is the right to have a time and a wage that enables you to live in conditions of dignity. [[PCP applause.]] This is what Lidl's workers were demanding. It is also important to say the following: scientific and technological advances are unquestionable. The problem is that, as Mr Soeiro has pointed out, scientific and technological advances, rather than serving the development of the country and improving living conditions, are imposing on workers more hours of work and less wages. Over 132 years of the first 1. May, we have the workers fighting for 8 hours of work. For more than 100 years, workers have been struggling for 8 hours to rest, for 8 hours to work and for 8 hours to enjoy. It is a historic struggle that is still not consecrated today because, Mrs Deputy, the labour law of the PSD and the CDS, which in many matters the PS has accompanied, allowed the 60 hours of work per week. It is 60 hours of weekly work and 12 hours of daily work, which makes it very evident the need to repeal the most serious standards of the Labour Code. Over 100 years of the first 1. May is more than time to reduce working hours. Scientific and technological advances should allow more quality of life for workers and, on the contrary, they completely deregulate their lives and their conditions of family follow-up, of children's follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u201	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u202	That is why, on the next 18th day, we will bring here a proposal to guarantee 35 hours for all workers, the public and the private, and we will see who invokes the need for vocational training and the rights of workers as rhetoric and who subscribes it as practice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u203	Rhetorical is that of the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u204	To request clarification, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Rita Rato, today, and how is the practice of the Portuguese Communist Party, qualified 1. May as a day of struggle and the Socialist Party can no longer agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u206	So why don't you introduce the 35-hour proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u207	Every year there are new struggles that are renewed, there are new workers' rights which, of course, must be defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u209	But the Socialist Party, to that idea that 1. May is a day of struggle, I wanted to add that it is also a day of celebration. I know that there is often an attempt to put the Socialist Party and the parties on the right in the same bag. However, there is a slight contradiction there and this contradiction is well anchored in the idea that 1. May is not only a day of struggle as a day of celebration, because, as Mrs. Deputy has said, if there is a historical moment when it breaks in the conquest of rights, it is the time when the left has joined to get the right and regain the path of workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I wanted to tell you that in this 1. May and the 1st. the May of the last two years, there is a word that perhaps best describes what we have been able to do, which is the word « commitment». I agree with the social partners, commitment to the parties with seats in this Parliament, but above all, commitment to workers, commitment to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question I leave you with is this, Mrs Deputies: did the analysis of these three years, doing the analysis of what was done and knowing that there is still a lot to do, was it worth it or not? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u210	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato, I have already had the opportunity to say here today that 1. the May Day of the Worker is no property of anyone, it is not property of the PCP and the workers are not property of the PCP. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The importance of work with dignity, the reconciliation of work and family life, which are the new forms of work concern the CDS, and we have raised the issue of emphasis. It was also important for the CFP to clarify what it thinks about social dialogue and what it thinks about social dialogue, because unfortunately the signal that the CFP has always given to this House is that it prefers to go beyond and ignore social consultation, prefers to impose by legislative means, not want social dialogue, and that is serious, Mrs Depute. Does the CFP also consider it serious that the Government, which you support, failed to comply with the agreement for the increase in the minimum wage in 2017? Don't you think that's serious? Don't you think it's a question of social consultation? By the way, Mrs Deputy, I tell you this: the government that you support and the party with whom the CFP has agreed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u212	And you also support rejection.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u213	... hasn't changed the labour law yet. What the CFP sometimes does is to say that the PS is done with the right, but the truth is, Mrs Deputy, is that this government is only because the CFP so decided, it was the CFP that supported it. So I remember that this is also your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u214	How was the collective contract voted? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u215	If it is your government and if you do not agree with it, what consequences will the CFP withdraw? After all, what we have is a very vocal PCP on the street,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u216	That's CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u217	...protest on the street, but here votes everything the Socialist Party presents? After all, what are we staying in? Protests on the street and complaints in here?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u218	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u219	What is the consequence of the CFP's failure to listen to the Socialist Party in terms of labour legislation? [[CDS-PP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u220	It's more fighting, Mr. Deputies. More fight and less CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u221	You have the floor to answer the requests for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Luís Soares and António Carlos Monteiro, I am grateful for the questions that have raised me. The 1st. May is a day of struggle, Mr. Luís Soares. It is a day of struggle and what remains to be deeply revealing is that in the 21st century workers still struggle for such fundamental rights as the right to collective bargaining and the right to stability and employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u224	That is why it is not enough to be deeply revealing, because some of these rights the Portuguese workers have conquered us even during fascism. So today, in 2018, in the full democratic regime workers are fighting for a right as essential as collective bargaining, the 8 hours of work and employment stability is well revealing the nature of capitalism, the crisis of capitalism and those who have paid for this crisis have effectively been workers by their living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u226	With regard to the issue, which it was worth defeating a government, I myself said from the rostrum that it was the struggle of workers, the importance of the courageous struggle of workers who defeated a government of the PSD and the CDS and allowed another correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, which was decisive in ensuring the replacement of 35 hours in the Public Administration. But there's a lot to be done. What Portuguese workers are asking today is whether it is worth wasting this historic opportunity to have in the Assembly of the Republic conditions to repeal and not take advantage of the most serious standards of labour law. What the Portuguese workers yesterday, through many streets in this country, asked where is the left-wing policy that the PS government says it wants to practice, but that it insists on joining the PSD and the CDS in order to maintain undamaged labour legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u228	It is always worth fighting and the workers of this country know that. It is always worth fighting, because no government has ever offered workers rights, it has always been their struggle, their unity and their determination. What Portuguese workers will realize is which side the PS wants to be on. Does the PS want to be with the PSD and the CDS and maintain the expiry of collective bargaining, maintain 60 hours of weekly work, 12 hours of daily work, not guarantee the payment of additional work, maintain matters relating to the violation of maternity or paternity rights, or want to be with the CFP in the fight for measures of progress and social justice? Workers need to know whether it will be worth supporting the PS or whether it will be worth supporting the CFP and giving more strength to the CFP because, in fact, only with a patriotic and left-wing policy that sets the first objective of valuing work and workers is possible to reverse this path. It is not enough just to defeat a PSD government and the CDS, it is necessary to repeal the most serious standards. Labour legislation cannot be kept intact—because PSD, CDS and patronage applaud and, in social consultation, employers' confederations also applaud. What is not acceptable is that, after three years on the amendment of the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, there are issues, in particular with regard to the fight against precariousness, as regards the defence of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle, which is delayed. And it takes time, because PS always chose to join PSD, CDS and patronage. Therefore, on the side of the PCP, because we know which side we are on and which side we want to be on because there is only development of the country with workers' rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u229	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u230	... we will continue to support your fight for better living conditions and for a country of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u231	Mrs. Members, finished the second item on the agenda, concerning political declarations, we will move to the third point, which consists of the discussion of petition No 346 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the repeal of Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 15 July establishing the legal regime to which logging and reforestation actions are subject in the continental territory with the use of forest species ( Carlos Alberto Maldonado Fragoeiro and others) together with draft resolution No 1549 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for forest diversification ( BE ). For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the subscribers of the petition, which bring us, once again, the theme of the forest planning and the huge area of the territory covered by eucalyptus. It is true that, essentially, the content of the petition will be exceeded after the revision of Decree-Law No 96 / 2016, approved exactly one week before the entry of the petition in this House, but the problems of the forest remain and are deep, requiring continuous follow-up of the solutions adopted and the adoption of new measures. That is the purpose of the draft resolution of the Left Block, which we are also debating here today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the latest report of the Independent Technical Commission for Fire Analysis produced a valuable work in which the area burned by type of forest is analysed during 2017. There is a clear predominance of the burning areas of red pine and eucalyptus: they burned about 8% of the Portuguese forests, but burned 17% of the pine-white areas and about 12% of the eucalyptal area. In proportion to the occupied areas, much less oaks, chestnuts and other leafy and much less so were burned. These data confirm what experts in fire fighting have long been transmitting and is today common sense: the predominance of extensive highly flammable species spots and easily propagating fires requires sorting and containment. in this sense, a number of diplomas and provisions have been promulgated which are obviously necessary. But climate change implies that, in addition to disciplining forested areas, there must also be a substantial change in the species themselves implanted there. There will have to be a greater use of native species, more appropriate to the current climate and more climate-resilient to climate change, although with much lower initial profitability, relevant factor in investment options. that there must be a positive stimulus on the part of the State, encouraging the adoption of solutions identified in the Technical Commission's own report. We highlight the need to include measures to promote forest fire protection and adaptation to climate change in the Rural Development Programme ( RDP ) post-2020, through incentives for activities to diversify the origins of forest income while combating abandonment and promoting a greater presence and human relationship with the forest, as well as measures to encourage forestry or reforestation with leafy species, particularly oaks. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to order, regulate, discipline. The State itself must promote, support and mobilize resources to adopt species resistant to an increasingly aggressive and fire-resistant climate that will always occur. That is the meaning of the draft resolution of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u233	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands and thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing. This is a matter of great importance to us, which is, in fact, easily visible in the involvement and effort that the Greens have developed to put a brake on the expansion of the eucalyptus plantation area in our country. It is recalled that the Greens included in the Joint Position that they established with the PS the need to stop the expansion of the area of the eucalyptus and promote the increase of the areas of native species, particularly the mountain of the sorrow and of the ash or bravado pine. In fact, as the petitioners point out, the former Government, through Decree-Law No 96/2013, not only imposed a system of trees that literally liberalized the plantation in eucalyptus monoculture, but also made it difficult to forest with native species, such as surroir, oak, chestnut or other. And in addition to all the negative aspects that the monoculture of eucalyptus power, especially when we talk about the size of forest fires, it is still necessary to bear in mind all the rest that is associated with the liberalisation of eucalyptus, namely the destruction of water resources and the external erosion of soils or the destruction of biodiversity, both at the level of flora and fauna. For this reason, the Greens have long defended the need to break down, at times, policies based on a mere short-term economic vision, and to benefit exclusively some restricted economic sectors, where, of course, cellulose prevails. It was also on the basis of these assumptions that, in the new parliamentary framework, the Greens committed themselves to placing on the political agenda the imperative to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus, promoted by the PSD/CDS government. We knew that it was not an easy fight, that there were many obstacles ahead, some visible, others not so much, but still, The Greens did not cease to engage and collaborate in the search for responses and legislative solutions aimed at preventing the country's unbridled eucalyptization and promoting a forest resistant to fires and diversified, sustained in the native and economically profitable species. Thus, and through the Greens, the RJAAR (the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arboring actions) has undergone a profound review which, despite not going as far as we wanted, nevertheless represents an important step in the brake on the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, which, it is recalled, has been promoted by the previous Government of the PSD and the CDS. But more: in a country that urgently needs a national strategy for forest policy, which assumes as the starting point that the forest is fundamental to life, that performs various functions and that must be managed sustainably, The Greens also presented, in the context of discussion of the State budget for 2018, a proposal which, moreover, was approved, to anticipate the entry into force of this new regime. Therefore, in view of what is said, it is even indispensable to say that the Greens fully share the concerns and objectives of the petitioners, because our commitment and involvement in this process speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u235	Mr Francisco Rocha of the Socialist Party now speaks for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reflection on the planning of the territory and its importance for the implementation of forest policy is one of the tasks that should be of permanent interest to us and to us. The forest economy and its multidimensional involvement with planning issues should take into account management models and their scale, rural depopulation, landscape, the failure of the agro-silvipastorial model and also climate change. We therefore welcome in the person of the first petitioner, Carlos Fragoeiro, the 18,940 citizens who ask this House to reflect and discuss, once again, this matter as relevant as the legal regime that regulates the actions of arborization and re-arborization, this time with special impact on the excessive use of the eucalyptus and its environmental consequences. It should therefore be pointed out from the outset that the objective of this petition is essentially achieved with the entry into force of Law No 74 / 2017, which has undergone profound changes in this legal regime. Today, as is the case with this Act, very intense restrictions are introduced to the planting of eucalyptuses, preventing their expansion and even prohibiting the logging with this species, except through compensation projects. Limitations were also introduced to previous cases of communication and the figure of the embargo was introduced, so that a progressive reduction was achieved in the area of planting. All this was done in a broader and broader context, framed in the reform of the forest sector, which went through a set of other measures, also important, such as the revision of the National Forest Defense System against Fires, the approval of the simplified registration regime and the tax benefits for entities and forest management units, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is nothing great that has no difficulty. So we are not paralyzed by complex challenges and problems. We have this responsibility — the responsibility to make use of strategic thinking, learning from mistakes, taking into account scientific and academic knowledge, confronting and solving structural problems and also improving the systems and devices that contribute to the preservation and defense of an economic, social and environmental asset that gives by the name of forest. We are all aware that the reversal of the abandonment of the territory and the revitalization of the rural economy must be based on cross- and long-term policies. And in this strategy, we cannot and should not dispense with the critical contribution, the debate initiative and the civic participation of all our citizens. Today, we note and thank, with great satisfaction, the contribution of 18 940 Portuguese who wanted to give this great example. Thank you very much! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u237	You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to welcome the petitioners who have brought the debate as relevant to the country as that of the RJAAR, which is under discussion this afternoon. This petition essentially meets what the CFP has defended. The truth is that the re-arboring of the burned areas is carried out by repeating trees and forestry standards that keep the risks and the fragile spread of fires. In fact, the most common re-arboration situations in forest areas covered by fire are: the reconstitution of the anterior forest cover based on natural regeneration, which empowers the repetition of the large patches of resin monoculture; artificial conversion to species of rapid growth, such as eucalyptus; the transformation of forest areas into areas voted for urban speculation; or, even, pure and simple abandonment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to matters relating to trees and reforestation, we believe that there is a real need to ensure planning and implementation in order to ensure the conservation of natural resources and the rationalization of land planning. But even recognizing the need for structural changes that may involve some disruptions with installed dynamics, it will not be possible to rebuild the Portuguese forest and the rural world without taking into account and involving small farmers and forest producers. It is understood that the CFP needs a policy that considers people who live and work in the rural world. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no lack of legislation! in this debate, it is important to assume that Law No 77 / 2017, which made the first amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 2013, here under discussion, is actually applied. in this sense, it is necessary to know how the new legal system of tree husbandry is being applied, although it has received some of the CFP proposals, and has been substantially improved, in particular with regard to the entry into force on 1 January of this year. It is therefore important to answer the following questions: which changes, in particular, for whom do you want to make tree plantations? The Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF ) is already carrying out random monitoring of projects that require only prior information? How is the eucalyptus area reduction formula being applied? We continue without knowing the national forest inventory, an essential tool for the measures to contain the eucalyptus area provided for in the RJAAR. The origin of the problems is identified and we have no doubt that the cause lies in decades of right-wing policy and penetration of the CAP in Portugal, which condemned the rural world to disorder and abandonment. The CFP once again warned that what was needed was human, technical and financial means to respond to the numerous forest problems and another policy of appreciation of the rural world and of increasing regional development. The defence of the rural world is only closely linked to the defence of the forest, the enhancement of family agriculture and the promotion of regional development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u239	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the almost 19,000 petitioners who request the repeal of Decree-Law No 96/2013, which these petitioners consider, on the basis of a set of arguments, that they have liberalized the planting of eucalyptus and make it difficult to plant native species, in particular, because, according to the petitioners, an application for authorisation for plantations up to 2 ha is no longer necessary. Mrs. Members, consulting an information note from the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ) on the application of Decree-Law No 96 / 2013, and the most current data report to the first half of 2017 - are objective data contained in an official document -, we can see the following: the previous communications, which applied to these areas less than 2 ha, represent only 15 % of the total requests; 80 % of this previous area of communication corresponded to eucalyptal re-aborbations, i.e. the owners who wanted to reinvest, replanting with the same species. It also refers to this technical note that the exponential increase in applications for planting has not occurred — it does not say so, but we note — already with this left-wing Government and after the announcement by the Minister of Agriculture that there would be no more a foot of eucalyptus. To find out, I have brought you a chart, which, as I said, is contained in the technical note by the ICNF, and by the honourable Members. Members can see the evolution of the area of eucalyptus until the takeover of this government and then the peak, the evolution, that is, when the area of eucalyptus actually began to increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u241	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u242	What is the technical note from the ICNF? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u243	But what is curious is that this Act No. 77 / 2017, approved by this left-wing parliamentary majority that supports the government, which effectively has made and made the planting of native species more bureaucratic. It's because, sirs. Members, now with the law which you have approved, for any area, even if it is less than 2 ha, it is mandatory to communicate the start and end of the work. That is, we created more context costs for small forest owners. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality still shows — and the CDS will not tire of repeating, because it is factual, based on official numbers as well — that between 1995 and 2010 the area of eucalyptus increased by about 6000 ha per year — 6000 ha per year, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — and since the entry into force of the famous RJAAR, which you insist on calling « eucalyptus law», the area of new eucalyptus plantations has increased by 2700 ha per year, less than half!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u244	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u245	Therefore, I cannot understand why they call « the law of eucalyptisation», because there is not the smallest point of truth. It is also interesting to note that this note from the ICNF states that, until the date it was produced, there were no projects in the RDP ( Rural Development Plan ) contracted for new trees. Therefore, it shows the importance that this government attaches to the forest, which is presented by the number of projects — zero! — which were approved by the end of the first half of 2017. Finally, because I do not have any more time, I leave a brief note on the draft of the Left Block, which, in practice, has asked the Government to include in the next Community framework what is already eligible today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in short...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u246	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u247	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In short, this vision that the Left Block and the PCP fear to bring is an urban view of the forest, which does not bring any advantage to small forest owners and that only harms forest management and our territory. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u248	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers of the petition requesting the repeal of Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 15 July. It happens that this Decree-Law has been repealed for a long time. I also welcome the Block on the Left for more of this ride which here took advantage of the taste of a petition requesting the revocation of an already repealed Decree-Law. The Left Block has used us to navigate in the taste of the wind and to take advantage of the waves even of what has already been revoked. [[Protests by Mr. BE Carlos Matias.]] I would like to say that more caution and consistency are required in forest matters. Caution is required by the following: the Left Block itself added that there have been several legislative initiatives. However, I would like to remind the majority that the Government supports the fact that none of the various legislative initiatives have added value to the forest. What the current majority has done is to reduce forest profitability and increase burden for forest owners and for those who actually live and work in the forest. There is some consistency, because the Left Block always wakes up to the forest when there are some initiatives or when there are some circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u250	And the PSD never wakes up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u251	PSD is always sleeping!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u252	This is what happened after the tragic Pedrogon events, in which the Left Block rushed to give more gas to the forest reform due to the victims of this fire, but also now with the appreciation of the petition. Coherence is also required because on 10 November 2017 the PSD delivered in this same Chamber draft resolution No 1116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) in which he proposed and recommended to the Government some initiatives which today the Left Block itself has included in its draft resolution. But then what did the Left Block do? The Left Block voted against. It voted against the establishment of a forest plan for all regions covered by forest fires; it voted against the income support of producers who opt for forested areas with slow growth species; it voted against forest investment projects with slow growth species. This is what the Left Block did in November 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u253	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u254	Now come, at the flavor of a petition, recommend what we all know. There is also a requirement for consistency: the Left Block, in the explanatory statement of the draft resolution, cites a report by the Independent Technical Commission on the fires that occurred, which says that 17, 4 % of the areas of bravado pine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u255	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u256	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would like to remind you that the area of bravado pine in the national forest is 23%. Therefore, proportionally, it burned less than the pine forest area. in the same way, the report states that 11, 9 % of the Eucalyptus area were burned. According to the forest inventory, the eucalyptus area is 26 % and they burned 11 %. So proportionally, it burned much less. I end by saying that the forest...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u257	Stop right there, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u258	Mr President, I conclude by saying that what the forest needs is that there is no progress of uncultivated animals, as has happened. However, with the legislation that you are doing, it will increase the area of uncultuated animals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u259	Mrs. Members, let us now enter the last item on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 355 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the creation of the National Day of Huntington Disease ( Portuguese Association of Huntington Patients ) along with the draft resolutions 1011 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrates the date of 15 June as the Huntington National Day of Disease and recommends that the Government approve measures to reduce the impact of this disease and to support its patients ( PSD ), 1551 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons qualified to access the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis may carry out three pregnancy attempts within the National Health Service ( BE ) and 1552 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen health accessibility to Huntington ( PCP ) patients. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we are currently discussing was promoted by the Portuguese Association of Patients of Huntington and is signed by more than 4000 citizens, who, of course, greets, as well as the President of the Association, Dr. Helena Pires Soares, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. This petition was submitted on July 10, 2017 and has therefore taken the interest and sensitivity of the PSD, which presented a draft resolution still in that month. Today, there are two more draft resolutions, one from the Block and the other from the PCP, which we also welcome because they are now associated with the concerns that motivated the petitioners and the PSD about a year ago. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear that Huntington's disease, although rare, is devastating and has no cure. To date, no medicines or treatments are still available that slow or slow their progression, which is most often fatal within a period of 10 to 15 years. People affected by Huntington’s disease and their families are often ignored and simply forgotten in their suffering. Their impacts, psychological, family and social, are overwhelming and often lead to attitudes of discrimination, both in teaching, at work and even in the unacceptable lack of access to medical care. Therefore, the PSD presented its draft resolution, which recommends that the Government approve measures to reduce the impact of this disease, to support its patients, particularly within the framework of the SNS (National Health Service ) and in it we also propose the creation of support units specifically aimed at these patients, to ensure specialized care, medical and nursing care, psychosocial support, rehabilitation and end-of-life care. In our view, people with this disease and who want to have children should have full access to the techniques of WFP ( Assisted Medicine Processing ), avoiding transmission to their descendants. To this end, different groups should be created in access to the techniques of LDCs, which meet various factors, such as the existence or not of treatments that impede the progression of the disease, but also its transmission. The increase in the number of attempts available for at least three will also contribute to reducing the transmission of this genetic disease, which is not currently acceptable to discriminate between couples with this family history. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The more than 4000 petitioners who addressed us also called for the creation of the Huntington National Day of Disease, which would, in his words, be an important step in giving voice to all these patients and their families. by proposing the consecration of this day, the PSD believes that it contributes to the deepening of the knowledge of the disease and that, in this way, it enhances the awareness of society and health professionals themselves for this reality, which is not fair to continue to ignore. We will also show the country that, above all, in kings by principles and that we do not communicate with the cold bureaucratic vision that this disease, because it is rare, does not have national magnitude or expression. The PSD Parliamentary Group does not give up on this cause or on these Portuguese and, by giving expression to the hopes of the patients in Huntington and their families, we only do our most basic duty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u261	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the many and many petitioners, as well as the Portuguese Association of Huntington Patients. The petition which they brought to the Assembly of the Republic and which we have discussed here today calls for attention to very specific problems with which patients with Huntington are debating in Portugal. We are told by the petitioners that Huntington's disease is neurodegenerative, hereditary and highly incapacitating; that it is a disease with enormous impacts on the individual and the family; that the disease has an autosomal transmission mode, which means that there is 50 % probability of transmitting this disease to children and daughters; that the diagnosis of this disease is often delayed by the lack of specific knowledge and education of other health professionals; and that they wait 18 months or more to be able, for example, to access assisted drug procreation treatments, using the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. It is essentially for these problems that petitioners alert us. It is also for these problems that the Left Block presents and brings to the discussion today a legislative initiative not only to give visibility to these problems with Huntington patients, but also to respond to these problems. On the initiative that we bring to the discussion, we propose that people with Huntington may resort, within the National Health Service and completely free of charge, to three attempts to treat assisted drug procreation, using the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis, rather than the two current attempts. So we also harmonise here the rights that are now recognised for anyone who wants to use assisted reproductive treatment techniques and who has the possibility of resorting to three attempts. We also want — and that is what we propose in our initiative — to reduce the waiting list for these assisted drug reproductive treatments by extending the number of public centres in LDCs that can make genetic diagnosis pre-implantation. We also propose the dissemination of information to primary health care, in particular to physicians with special care of general and family medicine, to promote a more timely diagnosis of this disease. These are the main proposals we bring to the debate. These proposals will also respond to the main problems brought by petitioners to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u263	Mr Carla Cruz, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Initiate intervention by greeting, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the Portuguese Association of Huntington Patients and also all Portuguese who have subscribed to the petition. It was said here that the PCP only now cares about Huntington's patients. Nothing more false, because indeed, in the month in which the Association handed over the petition and which brought us together with the problems they had, in particular in access to the pre-implantatory genetic diagnosis, the PCP Parliamentary Group, as it had to be and it was mandatory for it to do so, addressed a question to the guardianship seeking to know why the waiting time was 18 months and what measures the Government would take to resolve the problem of accessibility of patients in this situation. In addition, the concern that the CFP has with these patients is that it has with all other patients, which is to present concrete proposals to solve problems of access to treatments, to the most appropriate therapies. It was precisely because of the recognition that there is a need to know more about this disease, especially health professionals, but not circumscribing to them, and also for patients to have access to the most appropriate treatments, be they pharmacologically, be others, such as physiotherapy, occupational therapy, psychological support for themselves and their families, that the CFP Parliamentary Group presented this initiative. In fact, we cannot accept that families are waiting 18 months to carry out the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. We therefore say that it is necessary — and this is a proposal that the CFP here makes — to strengthen the human, technical and material resources in the National Health Service to reduce response time. Obviously it is also necessary to harmonise the three attempts, as is the case with other diseases and other treatments. Therefore, as far as awareness-raising and information campaigns are concerned, we expect them to be carried out with schools and other public services, including social security. In fact, we are facing a disease, as has already been said, hereditary, rare, degenerative of the central nervous system, which has a very significant impact not only on the lives of these patients but also on their families. It is with the commitment, we are committed to defending access to health, to defending access to the most appropriate treatments that we have presented and that we will continue to beat ourselves for it, in particular so that all patients have access to what is determined in the Constitution: the right to health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u265	Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 4000 subscribers to petition No 355 / XIII ( 2. a ), which call for the creation of the National Day of Huntington Disease, as well as all those who suffer from the disease, who live with it and who daily create strategies to control it. Being a neurodegenerative disease with a difficult diagnosis, Huntington's disease is revealed by gradual and progressive changes, limiting daily, and, in many cases, is confused with other symptoms that normally camouflage. Being a rare disease with a low prevalence, it has a devastating impact on those who suffer and those who live with it. The patients with the mutation of Huntington's disease can currently constitute offspring, preventing transmission, provided they use the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis, one of the PMA techniques used, thus avoiding the transmission of this disease to their descendants. This can already occur in general terms of access to assisted reproductive techniques, although we recognize the need to improve response times, since these patients will have their quality of life very conditioned and compromised in the short and medium term. It is therefore urgent to gain and improve the quality of life of these patients, to promote their autonomy for as long as possible, to promote and investigate it and to encourage follow-up by specialized professionals. In Portugal, there are no studies of prevalence of this disease. It is believed that there may be about 1000 patients, although at the end of 2017 there were only 20 diagnosed patients and one with juvenile Huntington disease, for whom rare sick person cards were required. The proposal now being discussed presents the definition of an official day for this disease. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, although it considers that all causes of disease should be recognized, for this reason, because it is a rare disease of low expression and under the banalization of commemorative days, it believes that there is greater benefit and consistency in the association of these diseases to the commemorative day of rare diseases, the last day of February. The motto « Together we will be stronger» will undoubtedly serve to ensure that these issues, both in their impact and in their expression, are more relevant in the solutions to be found. We also recognize the need for a national reference centre for the diagnosis and treatment of this disease, so far non-existent. in this sense, we accompany the petitioners in the need to sensitize the entire civil society and population in general about this disease as unknown either by the community or even by health professionals, thus preventing patients from feeling so marginalized and disintegrated from the clinical and social contexts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we leave here a word of support and encouragement to those who fight and survive this disease...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u267	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u268	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. We leave a word of encouragement to those who fight and survive this disease, as well as to family and friends, fundamental in the process of support and pillars in their quality of life. Finally, with an undeniable conviction: an evolved society has as its cornerstone diversity through the promotion of equality. To treat the difference in a specialized way is to see in this stone the construction of a social citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u269	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by greeting, on behalf of the Group of the Greens Ecological Party, thousands of petitioners who have given shape to this important instrument of our participatory democracy. We extend this greeting to the Portuguese Association of Huntington's Patients not only for promoting and dynamizing this petition, but also for all the excellent work that has been carried out over time in promoting the conditions and quality of life of the patients with this disease, as well as in supporting their families. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens follow the concerns of the petitioners. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure possible treatments for all these patients, but also to alert and raise awareness of people in general, giving greater visibility to an unknown disease, so that patients and family members feel treated with the dignity deserved to any citizen. It should also be borne in mind that, when we talk about Huntington's disease, we speak of a hereditary, rare and degenerative disease of the central nervous system that leads to neuronal, selective and progressive loss, associated with motor, cognitive, but also behavioral changes. Although this disease occurs during adulthood, i.e. between 30 and 50 years of age, symptoms may occur even before 20 or even 10 years of age. It happens that, after symptoms appear, the average life expectancy of these people is between 10 and 15 years of age, since this disease reaches the ability of patients in the most elementary functions, such as food intake or the domain of their locomotion or mobility, and if symptoms occur during childhood, their progression is even more accelerated. We are therefore talking about a disease which causes a significant set of implications for both the patient and his family members and which, of course, requires responses from the State. Although, of what is known, there is no cure for this disease, there are, however, treatments that have shown some efficiency with regard to the treatment of depression and anxiety, but also with regard to the minimization of involuntary movements, no longer to speak in other treatments that may also have some relevance in the life of these patients, such as occupational therapy or cognitive rehabilitation programs that can and should be made available to people who suffer from this disease. in this sense, The Greens follow the legislative initiatives that we are discussing today and that, in our view, they will contribute, in particular, to enable the National Health Service to make available all possible treatments to Huntington patients, including psychological support for their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u271	To make the last intervention on this agenda item, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting, on my own behalf and on behalf of the CDS, the petitioners and, in a small way, their resilience to follow our work throughout the afternoon. I would therefore like to welcome them, but above all, I would like to thank the call for attention to such a relevant pathology that as a doctor I know quite well, and for a reality that deeply affects so many people and families. Even though we are talking about a rare disease, we well know that the impact it has on affected people and their families and caregivers requires our greater attention, commitment and action. On this occasion, we would also like to welcome the courageous example of overcoming the people affected by Huntington Korea and its families and to thank the worthy work of the Portuguese Association of Huntington Patients. We are aware of the difficulties of patients and families living with chronic diseases, with irreversible diseases, with rare diseases. For the CDS, support for these people and their families is a key point and has deserved several legislative initiatives on our part. That is what we have done, even recently, when we presented in this House a set of concrete proposals, which have been approved, to improve support for people with rare diseases and with disabilities and also for their caregivers. What we hope is that these recommendations will be put into practice by the government, that concrete means and operationalized measures are made available to help make these people's lives more dignified, to bring them more quality and better clinical assistance in such diverse areas as those ranging from prenatal and pre-implantatory care to rehabilitation treatments and, in the most advanced phases of the disease, and in the end of life, when they need palliative care. Since this is a rare disease, it seems to us that what makes sense and reinforces the relevance of common problems is to have a national day of rare diseases, an initiative that does not in any way exhaust all the attention and all the actions that the theme should deserve us. They can count on the CDS to support people with rare diseases, to support people with Huntington's Korea, to support people with greater vulnerability. This is the view we have of society: do not leave behind the most vulnerable and help them to live with the dignity they have, because they are not, for us, second persons and what they deserve is to be treated and helped, them and their families. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-02.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the last item, we are finishing our work this afternoon. It is only for me to inform the House of our agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will start at 15 p.m. and is composed of five points. In the first point, legislation No 123 / XIII ( 3 ) will generally be considered. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366. In the second point, the CL will be assessed together, in general, the proposal for law No 120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and draft law No 856 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2004 of 18 August, as amended by Law No 55 -A / 2010 of 31 December 2010, which regulates the organisation and operation of the National Data Protection Commission ( PS ). The third point will be followed by discussion, in general, of Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits. The fourth point will consist of the discussion of draft resolution No 1481/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mechanism for the allocation of a provisional blood price pension ( PSD ). Finally, in point 5, draft law No 781 / XIII will be discussed in general ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, recognizing the possibility of mutual resignation to legal heir to the Convention ( PS ). With this, we finish our work. I wish the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon. [[It was 18 hours and 8 minutes.]]
