ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the gates of the galleries. We will enter the agenda for today's meeting, which consists of the discussion of draft resolutions 1111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a special support programme for Portuguese to be set up in Portugal as a result of serious political, economic and humanitarian crises in countries where they reside ( PSD ), 1256 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an extraordinary programme of support for Portuguese and Luso-descendants that due to social, economic and political circumstances abroad return to the national territory ( CDS-PP ) and 1252 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the means of support for Portuguese citizens returning to the country ( CFP ). To initiate the debate and present the draft resolution of the PSD, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have long understood that solidarity between Portuguese cannot be an empty word. Even more so when it comes to those who live outside the national territory, where they were forced to go to have the opportunities that their country has not given them. This is once again the time for this House to assume such solidarity clearly in the face of absolutely dramatic situations that tend to be repeated more and more. The best example we have to illustrate this initiative is that of Venezuela, whose situation has worsened so in the last two years that we can be about to be confronted with a true cataclysm that can reach hundreds of thousands of Portuguese and their direct descendants. The fact is that so far we have heard from a few thousand national citizens who have sometimes been totally unaccompanied in Portugal and other countries because of this situation. However, we are well aware that the local situation can get worse and can be confronted with only one case comparable to that of the decolonization period. But we also know that there are other situations, particularly on the African continent, that do not stop causing serious concerns, given the economic development of certain countries that also have significant Portuguese communities. Nor can we forget of calamities that have happened at various points in the world, as has recently occurred in the Caribbean. For all this, we understand that it is time to put an end to the improvisation, creating an operational and permanent programme, which is quickly feasible that goes beyond the traditional plan of return or contingency, coordinated at the highest level by the government, but which involves political and administrative entities at regional and local levels, which ensure rapid support for cases such as those that have arisen and others that may happen at all times. In time, we will be careful about situations that no one wants, but that at all times may arise. It must be done in a comprehensive and continuous way, also to avoid situations of inequality among national citizens who are heading to territories where there is great experience in the treatment of such cases, as in Madeira, whose regional authorities have been exemplary in supporting Venezuelan refugees, and those who go to territories of very low density, whose local authorities face the most absolute shortage of means for an adequate response to dramatic cases that are emerging. For all this, in a constructive and supportive logic, we propose to the Assembly of the Republic that it strongly recommends to the Government that it create a programme which, I repeat, goes far beyond the existing National Return Plan, in a structured, permanent and very operational way, implies several means of responding to more or less continuous crisis situations that require national citizens, living abroad, to return to Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u3	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, today we are discussing a set of projects, ours and also those of the PSD and the PCP, which are of the greatest importance and which, moreover, are the essence of the sovereign function of the State, which is to fight for the defence and protection of goods, of course material, but also of the supreme good, which is the "life" of our citizens who emigrated. Indeed, we live in a world whose geopolitical reality is increasingly complex and which changes very quickly, sometimes with unpredictable and immediate consequences. This has been done by natural cataclysms or by questions of political, economic and social instability in several countries, which we can remember more recently, for example, South Africa, Mozambique or, as has been said, in a more pressing manner, the question of Venezuela. The latter, in fact, has been an issue which has forced many Portuguese and Luso-descendants to return, against their will, to our country. The number of Portuguese returning is still unknown today — there are those who speak in 8000 to 10 000 — focusing at least 50 % only in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. This is, therefore, a significant impact, from now on for this autonomous region and for the country. For this reason, the CDS presented, in the course of the last discussion of the State budget, a proposal which provided for the creation of a fund of about EUR 1 million so that the Regional Government could meet the pressing needs of our citizens and the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira itself. Unfortunately, this proposal from the CDS was not approved by the left-wing majority of this Parliament and thus it was not possible to provide this short-term aid to the Regional Government of Madeira. however, we believe that, by strengthening this dialogue with the Regional Government and VENECOM ( Association of the Community of Venezuelan Immigrants in Madeira ), it is essential, without prejudice to the mechanisms already existing in the law, to create, on a permanent basis, structured, consensualized, coordinated, an extraordinary programme of support for Portuguese and Luso-descendants who, under political, economic and social circumstances abroad, return to the national territory. It seems to us that this is fundamental. Moreover, the PSD project, plus, but also the PCP project came in some way to meet what the CDS proposes and, from now on, we say that we will proceed to the approval of the PSD. However, we also want to say that what we are proposing here is that we de-burocratize, agile, evaluate the mechanisms both from the point of view of education, health, the recognition of the courses of emigrants and Luso-descendants returning, or at the level of maintaining the stability of school training of their descendants, the possibility of carrying out the existing social housing in these regions so that they can be planned for these cases of emergency and technical support so that they can start again a life which, for reasons that are not obviously imputable to them, was somehow interrupted. by doing this, we are fulfilling the essential and sovereign function of the State, which is the protection of goods and the life of our fellow citizens, we are preventing, what is fundamental, and not reacting to it, as unfortunately often happens, and thus fulfilling the essential function of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u5	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Republic provides in Article 14. o — Portuguese abroad — which, and I quote, « Portuguese citizens who are or reside abroad enjoy the protection of the State for the exercise of rights(...) ». This support is achieved only with an external network, missions and consular posts, with communities, equipped with human, material and financial resources, capable of providing such protection. However, it also understands the CFP that the Portuguese State should ensure protection to the Portuguese community that it is obliged to return to the country because of wars or serious situations. Since 1997, the country has a National Return Plan, which was modified in 2012, and essentially includes the transport of migrants through air bridges or military means of transport, the reception and provision of post-disaster care in concerted actions of social integration, and the means necessary for the installation of people and the satisfaction of their pressing needs in coordination of efforts with public entities. It is with the aim of strengthening the means of support for Portuguese returning to the country that the CFP presents this legislative initiative. This is an initiative which recommends that the Government: undertake the critical assessment of the measures already provided for in the National Return Plan, considering the objectives and impacts that are intended to be achieved with the guidelines listed in the project; strengthen the effective conditions and the human, material and financial means necessary for the implementation of measures and support, in particular with regard to the linkage between local plans, regional plans and national policy, which are envisaged, and the education, social security, employment and health sectors; consider new guidelines on the deepening of the support modalities enshrined in the Portuguese State planning instruments, with a view to the reintegration of returning migrants, in particular as regards policies for the promotion of inclusion, as regards the strategic or operational measures of the strategy, and the functioning of services, as regards monitoring mechanisms and the real capacity to respond to the emergency needs of migrants, in health, support for children and the elderly, but also in the education, in the country plan, in employment; reinforce the links to the planned support of the Union and the planned programmes, and to implement the planned programmes of the planned programmes; and to enhance the planned programmes of the planned programmes of the planned programmes, and to meet the expected funding, and the expected allocation of the Union, and the expected back- With this initiative, the CFP reiterates that the country, the Government has an obligation to try to help or solve and at least mitigate the difficult situations in which many Portuguese may remain because they have been forced to return to Portugal due to situations of serious crisis or even war. This initiative does not, on the contrary, require that, in addition to strengthening the means for supporting Portuguese in these situations, the country continues to have an external network, strengthening it, of human, material and financial means which also enables the fulfilment of constitutionally enshrined principles, of teaching Portuguese abroad, of social support to the most deprived and of the realization of consular acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u7	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern about the fate of the Portuguese community distributed around the world, particularly those living in crisis areas, as has been the situation in Venezuela in recent times, touches us all, is not exclusive of any party force. We are all concerned about this and, of course, we recognize the obligation of the State to accompany and protect all its citizens. Venezuela has a continuous flow of return of migrants. Despite calm in terms of public protests in recent months, difficulties and uncertainty remain. however, this concern is not measured by the number of legislative initiatives, nor by the number of protest votes. This, when much, can be an attempt to take political advantage—which has indeed been the recurrent practice of the PSD and CDS—of the cases and situations of disasters, of pain and, in this case, of the anxiety and uncertainty that involves the people on the ground and their family and friends who are on the side of here. This is the reflection of the lack of policies, alternatives and the failure of the catastrophic forecasts for the measures taken by this government, of the so-called "Devil" that has never arrived — perhaps there is the expectation that it will arrive from Venezuela! What is recommended to the Government in the draft resolutions submitted is already being done by the Government. The proposed programme already exists: it is the Regression Plan that is already several years old. Does it make sense that it's reassessed? I'm sure you do. The assessment of the government's performance has been considered appropriate by all, and this has been demonstrated both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, and in the parliamentary groups of friendship where the government will account for what has been done. In particular, in Madeira, where a large number of migrants have returned to Venezuela, the regional and national authorities have praised each other for their commitment to the exemplary nature of cooperation. I am referring to the statements made by the former regional secretary with the protection of the migrant communities who recognized him and who even took part in travel to Venezuela, together with the Secretary of State of the Communities, of the Central Government. however, we know, because we are used to it, that for Madeira's PSD all the pretexts are good for raising the terror of the external enemy and creating conflicts with the Government of the Republic, which serves only to hide the incompetence and disaster that has been governance at regional level.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u10	Therefore, the plan exists, the evaluation of the action of the government has been considered appropriate and therefore we do not understand the relevance of these initiatives, except in the context of political use,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u12	...and makes every sense that the plan that already exists is reassessed in the light of new circumstances. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u13	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Pisco, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions we are discussing today have the merit of drawing attention to the need of the State to respond in cases where there is a forced return of Portuguese residents abroad, due to disasters or serious economic and social crises. If we look at the countries where there are Portuguese communities, we can identify some where there will be more problematic situations, but in no way can we say that we are facing a generalized alarm situation. when analyzing some descriptions in the draft resolutions we discussed here, we could be led to think that many countries where Portuguese communities are located are immersed in a situation of chaos. in reality, and fortunately, we are not watching an exodus of compatriots, nor are Portugal lacking means and structures to give satisfactory answers, among them the National Plan of Return, referred to by the Communist Party. Clearly, it does not seem appropriate for us to be creating the feeling of a kind of global alarm, neither of a widespread exposure and vulnerability of our communities, nor so little of a disability of our national structures to respond to the cases that have arisen. The situation in Venezuela is different and very worrying, and it certainly inspires these initiatives. The fact that Portuguese owns a large part of commercial establishments and food distribution makes them easy targets in a situation of enormous shortage of food goods and unbearable inflation, associated with political instability and uncontrolled crime. But the Assembly of the Republic has closely followed the situation in Venezuela, in particular through discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State of the Communities, who has already moved to Venezuela four times. We can say that the Government has been at the height of the events, both in support of the community in Venezuela and in its reception in Portugal, both in Madeira and on the Continent, since then, for the ability to maintain open channels of dialogue with the Venezuelan authorities, as well as to try to resolve various situations that have affected the community, victims of assaults and expropriation of commercial establishments, but also for abdicating about 8 million euros in consular emoluments and for increasing and flexible social support to poor Portuguese. It also deserves to highlight the exemplary cooperation and articulation that it has had with the Regional Government of Madeira and the support provided to meet the needs of Portuguese people and their descendants who arrive in the country with special needs for education, housing, health or employment. In addition, the Government has been present on the ground, mobilizing our diplomatic and consular structures to respond as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u16	Special reference is to the realization of the Social Route, with stays in all states of Venezuela to identify specific cases and needs of support, with the involvement of the association movement and community councillors, who meet here to welcome their important contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u17	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u18	Therefore, given the existence of response mechanisms ranging from various sectoral areas of the government to the immigration support offices in the municipalities, we do not generally consider the role of requests suggested in the recommendations, in some cases because they are redundant and, in other cases, manifestly inadequate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u19	For a second intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u20	Mr President, it will be a very short intervention and that, in any case, it would not be the Left Block that somehow broke the consensus that was emerging here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u21	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u22	Mr. Member, political use? Oh, my God! Trying to defend the interests of the Lusodescendants who are threatened is political use for the Left Block? Oh, my God! I must tell you that this intervention by you must be heard and repeated in Madeira and perhaps justify why the Left Block did not approve our proposal in the State Budget to strengthen the budget of the Regional Government of Madeira to deal with the situation of these Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u23	To conclude this debate, Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this issue of the communities and taking into account the recommendation of the Social Democratic Party, let me say a very special word to our community in Venezuela. The Social Democratic Party has been with deep solidarity, with deep concern and with great proximity to this issue of the Portuguese community in Venezuela. We want to pass a clear message to the Portuguese and Luso-descendants who live in Venezuela: they are not alone and much less abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u26	The Social Democratic Party has demonstrated enormous solidarity and concern for our community in this Parliament and in the Parliament of Madeira. We're talking Portuguese first, as Portuguese as any other Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u28	What has been done in the Autonomous Region of Madeira is exemplary. The government has made a huge effort to know how to receive, and receive well, those who have come from Venezuela. I want to tell you that there are special plans in the area of education, health, social support, housing, employment, vocational training, special plans for those returning from Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u29	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u30	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following : this is a national issue and not only of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Therefore, the message we also convey to the Socialist Party and to the other parties that support the central government is that they look at these expenses, at the costs of these operations of the Government of Madeira, solidarity and also pay some of the expenses we are bearing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We will move on to the following point, which is based on the general assessment of draft laws No 736 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legal-penal protection of privacy of private life on the Internet ( PS ) together with draft resolution No 1260/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime, including the establishment of working groups to assess the criminal response to these phenomena and to evaluate existing legal and regulatory diplomas in the field of mental health ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate and present the PS bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection of fundamental rights today assumes an important element which is known since the initial evolution of constitutionalism, but which, of course, has an increased difficulty today regarding the challenges and new risks it faces, in particular in the management of its possible invasion in the context of practices on the Internet or even through social networks. It is therefore necessary to recognize that this reality, with everything that brings advantage and again to the possibilities of the information society, also brings added and new risks. In fact, in particular in two axes, this matter of protecting and safeguarding the privacy of private life poses a major challenge with regard to the scale of damage that can be caused in the legal sphere of a person by unconsensual disclosure of images or videos on the Internet, but also another aspect, which concerns the irreversibility of many of these damages, because once placed online, once placed on the network, it is very difficult to ensure that this placement can be reverted, as it can be downloaded to a computer and systematically reloaded. Therefore, if we had so far answers in the Criminal Code that were aimed at safeguarding and protecting the privacy of private life—and, therefore, we already have a set of wrongs specifically aimed at this reality—and if we also have a prediction of the crime relating to recordings or photos that are obtained without consent, in fact, their transition to a social network environment or to any other placement on the Internet or in another equivalent network increases the scale of damage, increase the difficulty in eliminating this damage and, of course, must therefore be worthy of a judgment of increased and differentiated censorship. in the way we dealt with this problem, it seemed to us that, technically and legally, the creation of a new specific criminal type to deal with this matter was not the most appropriate. It was not the most appropriate because it could raise doubts about the competition with these crimes that I have just described, since it is going through even with other realities to which I will refer, in particular with crimes associated with the end of a relationship and therefore framed in the reality of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u34	It therefore seems to us that the best option is indeed to aggravate existing penalties in relation to offences already covered by the Criminal Code. This is precisely what the PS Parliamentary Group today proposes, with specific amendments to the crime of domestic violence — to Article 152. the, introducing precisely this worsening, i.e. the occurrence of a disclosure of images, collected up to potentially with consent but surely without the consent for its online disclosure having taken place — and then, of course, in that set of crimes that aim to protect and safeguard privacy and privacy, provided for in Article 190. the following and the criminal code, as well as the crime of illegal recordings and photos. In all these cases, what is proposed is, in fact, the introduction of an aggravated sentence, which allows for a more appropriate, more robust response, dissuasive of a reality which has already been translated among us. There have already been condemnatory decisions and criminal investigation in this area, other countries have already made this path of criminalization of what is sometimes called 'the pornography of revenge', i.e. revenge with the other, placing on-line, without their consent, eventually collected images with their consent but surely in which the disclosure of them has not been consented, providing a reinforcement of protection to whom, in this context, is now without a clear answer by the legal order. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u35	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This subject calls for the serious and urgent reflection of all of us, and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has just given very relevant examples of why we should all think a lot about these matters. For the CDS this is not a new matter. Moreover, this is not the first time that we have brought the debate here, sometimes not always with the success that we have expected. We hope that this time the problem will not be ignored. We have news of this every month. Some days ago, we began to hear about a new challenge that runs on the Internet, in which they share videos in which teenagers eat detergent capsules, called pod challenge; for months, we heard about the phenomenon of Blue Whale, with terrible consequences, as we all know; also sextortion, which was just for adults, now also teenagers try to do, which makes them breathe in front of computer cameras and the entire internautic community. So there are serious, dangerous phenomena, which we must indeed guard against. And if the Internet is an extraordinary world, a good world that helps us all and has no limits—and that is potentially good, it translates the imagination of the human being, who has no limits—the truth is that, in this world without frontiers of the Internet and with undeniable advantages, there is a black side that we all have to guard. The problem obviously arises when what is good is used for perverse purposes, engaging in terrible crimes. Crimes leave marks that don't come out, they are crimes that don't go out, they stay there forever, and they leave most of the time irreversible sequels. The crimes committed by the Internet still have an added peculiarity, as Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves said recently: they do not happen once again, they happen whenever a click wants to make them appear again. So it's a reality that we all have to deal with. That is why the repression and reprisal of these crimes is important, but more than that, in our view, it is essential to form, it is essential to raise awareness, it is essential to teach, it is essential, above all, to alert to the dangers and prevent them. Criminalizing such conduct is important, I have already said it, but what is essential here is not done, which is to prevent them, because, as I said recently, they always come back and are always there, in the virtual world, in the body and in the soul of the victims. Even if the criminal is caught—and we know that often and often the criminals are not caught—the truth is that these evils are not eliminated. The CDS proposes that an annual training programme for cybersecurity and cybercrime prevention be developed firstly, directed and administered by UNC3T ( National Unit for Combating Cybercrime and Technological Crime ). We also propose that there be an extension of the scope of competence of this unit, so that it have a direct participation in training for cybersecurity and prevention of cybercrime in school. We also propose that information and awareness-raising sessions be held for the safe use of the Internet in schools, with principal directors, teachers, students and education officers. We also propose that the SeguraNet project be updated and strengthened, which already exists, but which, in fact, needs some update, and above all, that it be monitored by the Assembly of the Republic through an annual report. We also ask that the joint be strengthened in the context of pedopsychiatry...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u38	I am concluding, Mr. President. As I said, we called for closer coordination, within the framework of pedopsychiatry, school health and primary health care, to strengthen the psychological support lines, to create working groups that review the existing legal diplomas and adapt them to this reality, which is pressing and that we cannot continue to ignore. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u39	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two relatively different situations. I would begin with the Socialist Party bill, which seems to make every sense to us, in that, as we know, the criminal provisions that protect privacy contain a worsening regarding the violation of privacy by using media, taking into account, of course, the special scope of these means. It happens that today there are other means, not social communication, potentially privacy violators, and therefore likely to be used for the practice of these crimes, which do not have this criminal aggravated. However, as you know, criminal provisions cannot be applied by analogy, so there is indeed an area of deprotection. With this area of deprotection, it makes sense that it reflects on the issue and that the Assembly of the Republic can find a way to address this problem of our legal-criminal order. The proposed solution is not taken, insofar as it does not make an autonomous criminalisation, but uses existing criminal types, creating a worsening for the use of the Internet for that purpose. Obviously, in the field of specialty, it is appropriate — and we consider it mandatory — to listen to the entities that have spoken out and to decide on amendments to the Criminal Code, namely the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Order of Advocates. We are sure that this is a meaningful path and therefore we welcome this legislative initiative. We can no longer say the same about the draft resolution presented by the CDS. From the outset, matter is another, that is, one thing is the violation of privacy, using the Internet for that, another thing is cybersecurity and cyberbullying, which are different subjects. Obviously, cybersecurity and cyberbullying are issues that also concern us and that are likely to justify reflection and even legislative measures, if that is the case, but this draft resolution of the CDS seems to be a kind of contest of ideas around the topic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u41	And that's bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u42	In fact, the CDS recommends that the Government create a number of national programmes, which will present several reports, which will create two more working groups, but what we consider most complicated is that it not only provides for a police authority to have functions which, in fact, should not be entrusted to it, in particular to teach, but also — which is more serious — provides for the possibility of an administrative authority blocking websites on the Internet. That is what we believe cannot be, in other words, blocking websites cannot be an administrative decision, it must be a decision which obviously has to have jurisdictional control. Therefore, without prejudice to our view that it makes sense to adopt legislative measures that can lead to this effect, this cannot be done as envisaged in this project, which recommends to the Government, among other measures, that it gives an administrative police entity the possibility to block websites from the Internet, listening to the bodies responsible for the Ministries of Justice and Education—that we do not even know what they are. These questions must be asked, but cannot be put lightly, they must indeed be weighted. With regard to this draft resolution of the CDS, although it has estimable purposes—in fact, we can subscribe virtually everything that is in its preamble—has a realisation which, indeed, does not seem acceptable to us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u43	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The preventive and punitive action in the area of domestic violence deserves to be increasingly tenacious and broad and the cases we have faced over time, and we still faced one case yesterday, show that it is. In fact, we are talking about violence in plural, because it is not just physical, brute, abject violence, it is also about all forms of psychological violence that endanger the fundamental principle of the self-determination of each and each in its most intimate space, in its most private space. The practices of blackmail through public humiliation, translated into the internet exhibition of images of private life, without consent, for this purpose, of the target person, should really deserve a treatment that corresponds to the censorship that goes down on these practices—and well! — in our society. For this reason, we follow the Socialist Party's bill, to the exact extent that it is to criminalize this kind of behavior in an aggravated way. For us, the reservation of private life is a constitutional good as fundamental as it is threatened. in this sense, the availability recorded today in this parliamentary framework to undermine the principle of private life reserve outside the frameworks of the rule of law deserves - we live concern and the recent adoption of a bill on access to communication data by administrative entities is an worrying example. As far as the CDS draft resolution is concerned, we will not follow it for reasons that also seem very clear: because it is another object of its attention, an object which must deserve our concern but which is disconnected from the other, but above all because it extends its forecast to the whole universe of cybercrime and cyberbullying and points out a path that seems extremely dangerous to us, which is that of blocking Internet sites by administrative entities. This is a path without return, a path of sensory impulse that we do not accompany, everything. That is why this security trend does not deserve our approval. We understand that this is a serious problem, but the proposed solution is not, at all, the one we believe to be the right one. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u45	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of the PSD are deeply sorry for the speedy way in which the Socialist Party intends to discuss a serious and important matter, disregarding the most basic parliamentary rules and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today in this Parliament does not obscure this House, it does not contribute to transparency nor to the credibility and prestige of the House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u47	Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u48	The PS intends to discuss a legislative initiative amending the Penal Code which it presented last Friday and which has not yet been discussed in the competent parliamentary committee. We can't accept it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the guarantee of the protection of personal data, the guarantee of the privacy of children and victims of domestic violence are discussed in this way without a first assessment of 1. the Commission, without the preparation of an opinion and technical note, without the hearing of compulsory entities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not how democracy is built, that is not how matters are discussed with this importance, that is not how the best solutions are found to protect victims of crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u50	It is not in this way or with this methodology that legislative quality is improved and good legislation is produced. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already knew that this government would like to navigate in sight, to decide in an unprepared and unprepared manner. Today, we know that this parliamentary majority is willing to do everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u51	You're so fucked up together!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u52	He is prepared to continue to break the parliamentary rules, to discuss in this way serious matters, with this importance, the pretext of any political agenda and any political timing, even after discussing something different at the Conference of Leaders. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by the way, this House has not yet learned anything from the latest parliamentary episodes or from the presidential veto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u53	What? Oh, my God! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u54	The PSD is obviously concerned about the phenomena of violence, persecution and humiliation via the Internet. The PSD is concerned about the games that encourage children to commit suicide, about the new phenomena of the so-called "revenge pornography", and we have mentioned it here several times. We cannot accept this matter in this way, when amendments to the Penal Code are concerned, without listening to the experts on this matter. To talk about protection of privacy is to talk about respect for freedom and for the dignity of the human person, is to talk about the right to safeguard, in Italian, of The Right te the Privacy, of D. Warren, is to talk about something truly essential as our freedom. Our freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and the dignity of the human person deserve to be discussed in another way, as well as the choice of the best way to strengthen their criminal protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, aggravating penalties is not the same as creating a new crime. It does not count on us to discuss amendments to the Criminal Code in this way, nor to discuss the appropriate typification in this way. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we reaffirm that today is another gray day for the history of our parliamentary democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u55	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a second, I thought I was in Madrid in 1982, and Colonel Techero had entered the Chamber to shoot the roof! [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] In fact, listening to the speech of the honourable Member, it seems that there has been an attack on democracy of this scale and of that order, which is unheard of and irreversible in the history of Parliament! Madam Member, I think that all parliamentary groups up to their intervention had the opportunity to exchange impressions on the two projects under consideration, that of the PS and that of the CDS, and to verify what in them was worthy of being accompanied or not—and, in relation to the CDS project, I will already discuss it and leave some comments. In fact, our initiative could have been delivered earlier and allowed to discuss and prepare the report in 1. the Commission, but surely it was not the first and unfortunately it will not be the last to be handed over, because often the conditioner of the parliamentary agenda effectively determines that this is the case. Therefore, the honourable Member had three minutes to be able to talk about something that has proved to be of the greatest importance, however, a relatively simple legislative amendment. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] With due respect, we are talking about legislative amendments to the Penal Code, whose degree of complexity and capacity for intervention in the Plenary are also not worthy of the tremendism that has just touched upon its intervention. Therefore, truly, we would have had the opportunity to exchange impressions on the adequacy of these three small amendments, again to the Criminal Code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u57	'Three small amendments'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u58	... to review the criminal framework and to aggravate it in those cases where it appears to be justifiable. Moreover, Parliamentary work does not end today. We will have the debate in the field of expertise, we will have opinions from the bodies that will have to speak out and there will therefore be a debate, which will take place — in advance — over the coming weeks and months, to conclude the analysis and work of this legislative initiative. Finally, I wanted to leave a note regarding the CDS project. In fact, despite the merit and the objectives it seeks to resolve, I believe that it mixes two different subjects. Cybercrime is aimed at a certain reality, which is that of crimes committed via the Internet, effectively and eminently jeopardizing the security of communications by this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u59	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, what we are discussing is how the scale that is provided by the Internet and by the transmission of social networks increases the size of certain illegals, which is a different subject from cybercrime. Indeed, as has already been mentioned, we have failed and cannot follow the measures that create an administrative entity, which could possibly have restrictive powers of fundamental rights. Therefore, for this reason, we cannot follow the CDS initiative, but we hope that it will be restored and that it will be able to resume the subject underlying it in the discussions we will have in the coming months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u61	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of Bill No 736 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 1260 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), we proceed to the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 566 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish equality in parenthood in the event of adoption, including the adoption by couples of the same sex, and the use of LDCs techniques and extend the sole parental leave period of the father ( tenth fifth amendment to the Labour Code and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91/2009 of 9 April 2009 ( BE ), 177 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( PCP ), 738 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 introducing changes to the adoption regime and adapting the protection regime in parenthood to assisted medicinal procreation ( PAN ), 739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ), 740 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of parenthood in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex ( PS ) and 741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Done at 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the dispensation for child assistance in place of the exemption for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ) together with draft resolution No 1240 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to ensure that the accompanying pregnant women in the interlocutory displacements of the Azores have the absences to work justified in labour law ( PSD ). To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project presented by the Left Block today aims to guarantee the same rights and conditions for the exercise of parenthood, whether it is biological parenthood or parenthood through adoption. It is therefore a matter of ensuring equality between all forms of parenthood. The approval of adoption by couples of the same sex in 2016, as well as the extension of drug reproductive techniques assisted to all women, including, therefore, women's couples, brought a new reality that is not enshrined in the Labour Code, ensuring equal conditions for couples of the same sex who wish to exercise their kinship.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u64	The Social Security Institute also has this understanding regarding parental leave and allowances relating to these licences, which is expressed in various opinions. in these opinions it can be read that it would not make sense that a couple of women could use assisted reproductive techniques and then be denied the rights related to protection in parenthood. Therefore, in terms of social protection, it is understood that if the couple of women enjoy parental leave, there should be the payment of their respective allowances, in this case the initial, even shared parenting, and the sole parenting of the father, which must be attributed to the other mother. But it is also important, and up to these issues, to ensure something that is constantly forgotten every time changes are made to the Labour Code or other legislation and that they have an influence on the exercise of parenthood. It is therefore important to ensure equality between biological kinship and parenthood through adoption. at this moment, we already have initial parental licenses equal to biological parenthood and parenthood due to adoption, but in adoption, when a couple adopts a child, it remains not entitled to the sole parental license of the father, for example. Therefore, if John and Mary have a biological child they are entitled to a license of 120 or 150 days and still the father's license of 10 days, followed by many more days, but if they adopt a child they are entitled to the initial license of 120 or 150 days, but then the father no longer has the right to this exclusive license of the father. in this matter, the important answer is why a child has different rights according to how he enters the family — a child who enters the biological way has the right to more time and more parental follow-up than a child who enters through adoption. It is also important to ensure that candidates for adoption — and that is what we also propose in this project — have the same conditions for both the exercise of this parenthood and the evaluation of the candidacy for adoption. In the past, the assessment of the application for adoption meant that three absences were necessary to work for three distinct moments of evaluation of the application by social security services. With the approval of the new legal regime for adoption, these procedures have been amended. at this time, candidates are required to adopt the frequency of training and the frequency of additional preparations for parenthood due to adoption may also be required. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these people may have justified errors at work so that they can exercise parenthood and, therefore, it is proposed that the exact same wording be given to mothers' exemptions for prenatal consultations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u66	I'm done now, Mr. President. No less important, because it is important to continue to promote gender equality and to promote the participation of the father, man, in the sharing of time and care with children, we propose that the sole initial licence of the father be extended from 15 to 20 days and then, in the next phase, from 10 to 15 days, enjoyed in a follow-up or interpolated manner. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u67	To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very important for us today to take into account that in the 21st century, in 2018 respect for and compliance with maternity and paternity rights is still a daily battle in companies and workplaces, both in the public sector and in the private sector. Despite being enshrined in the law, they continue to demand determination and struggle to ensure their fulfillment in life and thus well reflect the delay that characterizes the world of work in our country. There are still direct and indirect pressures on employers to condition the exercise of the rights of parents and mothers. Questions remain in employment interviews about the existence of children, their age or whether women are thinking of becoming pregnant. There are still pressures to ensure that workers do not enjoy the full maternity leave, nor the reduction of the hour for breastfeeding and breastfeeding, and that workers in situations of precariousness to whom the right to maternity and paternity leave is not recognized. It is therefore important to ensure full compliance with the rights already enshrined, but go further in strengthening the rights of motherhood and paternity, with the main objective being the best interests of children. The proposals which the CFP brings here are: the extension of compulsory maternity leave time from six to nine weeks; the extension of compulsory parental leave time from 15 to 30 days; the extension of maternity leave up to 180 days, paid to 100 %, as recommended by the World Health Organization, taking into account the importance of breastfeeding.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u70	We also propose the extension of paternity leave up to 60 days, 30 days more than 30 optional days, in addition to a very important proposal: the free decision of the couple on the period of enjoyment of parental leave, always ensuring payment at 100 %. It must be the couple and the family who decide how they will enjoy this licence, and that must be a right enshrined.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u72	We also propose the creation of a specific preterm leave or hospital stay of the newborn, plus maternity and paternity leave, ensuring its payment to 100 %. We also propose payment of the pregnancy allowance for specific risks at 100 %, since this allowance is currently only paid at 80 %. These situations relate to working conditions that workers do not condition and do not control and therefore should not be penalised, and they should be guaranteed 100 % payment. These are proposals from the CFP, progressive proposals, proposals to defend workers' rights, but above all to defend the best interests of the child. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u73	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pride that we return today, here in plenary, to speak in equality and more rights for Portuguese families. The NAP brings the debate of two drafts with several proposals for amendments to the law to ensure guarantees. First, in order to ensure equality in the parental protection scheme for women-constituted couples because, ending discrimination in access to assisted reproductive techniques, it is important that the parental protection scheme in Portugal reflects this equality and that these mothers are entitled to all rights already granted to heterosexual couples, from initial licences to the exclusive licences of the second parent, from exemptions for prenatal consultations to access to parental allowances and, without prejudice to doubts or deception, either by public services or by employers. There is no longer any place for discrimination. Secondly, we propose the end of the inequalities reflected in the Labour Code with regard to the dispensations and parental leave for families that are being formed by adoption or by biological means, because, in the 21st century, it is incomprehensible the superiorization of family relations by biological means, which continue to have more time for their children than those who adopt them. Families formed by adoption need such a demanding adaptation that they are denied by law. And, of course, we also want here to ensure that equality is guaranteed in the law when it comes to adoptions by couples of the same sex. Thirdly, we defend more time for the family, with the considerable increase in the duration of parental leave. In addition to the increase in the exclusive licences of the father or other mother, we immediately want to increase the initial parental leave for six months, with a payment of 100 %. From 2021 onwards, this should be able to pass to nine months if families thus understand it, with the ultimate aim of ensuring, from 2023 onwards, the possibility of obtaining a one-year license, because we want, more than ever, to promote and improve the difficult reconciliation between family life and professional life, helping to strengthen the experiences and health of children, mothers and parents, as well as to strengthen the social dynamics themselves. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly the countries that are walking in this direction, because love is not enough, it takes time to love. And because they are about families—and designed to value, benefit and bring happiness to those and to those who contribute to the balance of our country— these measures will have unquestionable positive and structural impacts. We therefore hope that they will be accompanied by all parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u75	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, with the decisive contribution of the Socialist Party, all citizens, regardless of their sexual orientation, can access, in situations of equality, the exercise of parenthood, in particular through adoption or assisted reproductive techniques. Legal homophobia's over. Legal sexism's over. We have all won as a community, they have won the children of all families — all of them! The constitutional prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, the fundamental right to constitute a family and the laws referred to above would be sufficient to ensure that, in the social protection of parenthood within the framework of labour relations and the social security system and the system of solidarity, the same rights granted to heteroparent couples would apply with due adaptations to homosexual couples. The world is not perfect and we have personal reports and testimonies that prove that doubts have been raised regarding this essential legal issue, that, for an interpreter conforming to the Constitution and the law, there is an obvious solution: homoparent couples have the same rights granted to heteroparent couples. Let it be clear in the letter of the law that! That's what we do here. Moreover, that is the opinion already referred to and recently issued by the Institute for Social Security. This initiative clarifies and ensures the application of the parental protection schemes provided for in the legislation in force, in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex, safeguarding the acts practised in accordance with this guidance. It is simple, we are not creating rights that should be discussed in a working group, as is currently under way, because we are not changing the Labour Code, we are not creating new rights, we are guaranteeing equality in regard to the enjoyment of rights currently existing, because it makes no sense that we continue in the current situation of homosexual couples to gain access to rights and other homosexual couples do not achieve it, because of a wrong interpretation of the law. No one can stay behind, from now on, the children here in question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u77	For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic recognizes that maternity and paternity constitute prominent social values and determines that women are entitled to special protection during pregnancy and after childbirth. It also provides that the law regulates the allocation to mothers and parents of entitlements to work for an appropriate period, in accordance with the interests of the child and the needs of the family. It is fair to recognize that, in these matters, Portugal has made a very positive legislative course in recent decades, oriented towards the defense of pregnant women, the protection of parenthood, support for birth, the reconciliation of family life with professional life and also the protection of women and family aggregates. in this context, it is important to take into account the specific situation of pregnant women living on islands that do not have hospital conditions for safe delivery. Indeed, pregnant women living on the islands of Santa Maria, Graziosa, São Jorge, Pico, Flores and Corvo, where there are no hospitals, have to travel to one of the islands with hospital, namely São Miguel, Terceira or Faial, to have their children safe there. But this travel is done, as it is obvious, by plane, and, in this sense, we have to take into account that they have to leave their islands in the recommended medical advance so that there are no surprises or stories, such as those we all know, of the birth of children during the plane trips. The accompanying pregnant women shall be entitled to the daily participation of travel and stay costs in accordance with the legislation governing this matter. However, incomprehensiblely, there is no legal provision in labour law to justify their absence from work. This is the meaning of the legislative initiative that we are bringing today the debate to Parliament, in the conviction that, with the removal of this lack of law, we will take another step in correcting the asymmetries that nature imposes on a region where, according to Nemésio, « geography is worth as much as history». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u79	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing a set of diplomas, all of which concern parental leave. All of them must therefore refer us to a question already brought here, which is that of birth. Birth cannot fail to be seen, at any time, by some kind of banality. on the contrary, all the elements at our disposal indicate that, despite this matter being increasingly on the political agenda and becoming increasingly recurrent — the CDS welcomes this, because, in fact, it has always had this concern, for many years that has been concerned about this as a central issue on the political agenda — unfortunately, the data have not been improving. See the latest data on birth values in 2017. After 2015 and 2016 the birth rate has increased, although slightly, in 2017 it has re-downloaded. We know that the growth of the population in Portugal has been negative, therefore, it is with the greatest pleasure that we welcome all initiatives, some of which go against what has been discussed and what is under discussion in the specialty, knowing that several parties have put forward proposals in this area, and the CDS too. For us, CDS, it is also an essential issue to link birth to the problem of gender equality and the sharing of responsibilities between father and mother. We therefore welcome the fact that we are here again to discuss this subject, through various proposals which seek to extend the period of compulsory leave which is scheduled for the father, which the CDS, in good time, presented in the Assembly of the Republic and which is under discussion in the field of specialty. Other parties now seek that this enlargement will also take place by their own hand, although in some cases it will be even shorter than those proposed by the CDS. We understand that this is the essential perspective when we are dealing with these matters. We are following the evolution, which is always negative, and we are going to put forward more proposals that increase our ambition. We can't always be fighting from the same ambition, because, if so, we're moving back and forth. It's like a rolling ladder where, if we're standing, we don't stay in the same place, we stay behind. Therefore, all of us, political parties, must have an increasing ambition, because it is increasingly difficult to counter the normal, unfortunately negative trend of population growth. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and because there are other questions that have been brought to bear on adoption, on drug procreation assisted, on homosexual marriages, on adoptions by people of the same sex, I would say that the CDS position on adoptions by people of the same sex is known. This position is clear, it is public, it has been taken over in its time, and on that we have maintained the position we have always had.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u81	He's in the law now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u82	But there is one issue that, for us, is not even a case. Clearly, there can be no children of the first and second — this is completely set aside. Therefore, the only question that could be raised was whether this law is really necessary, whether it is an issue of interpretation. Decisions of the Public Administration have been invoked here in which it is already interpreted in a way that seems sensible and sensible to us to do. The question has also been put in the context of interpretation, but for us this is no case. however, we understand that all of these matters must be deepened and work is taking place in the field. So let us work on the best technical solutions, not worth it, for us, to treat as a case what clearly is not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that, in fact, a number of legislative initiatives are under discussion on matters relating to parenthood, parenthood and equality. With regard to these proposals, I should like to leave two notes. First of all, I would like to say that all these matters deserve special attention from this Parliamentary Group, as they have always deserved. In fact, it was because of the concern about these matters that in the previous Parliament we introduced improvements in the Labour Code in order to strengthen the rights of parenthood and greater reconciliation between personal and professional life. in this sense, whenever it is necessary to strengthen these rights, look at the legislation and introduce improvements, regardless of what has been done, we are, of course, available for this. Secondly, I would like to remind you that there is currently a working group within the Committee on Labour and Social Security which is working precisely on a set of initiatives on parenthood, parenthood and gender equality. We therefore believe that the issues under discussion today should be discussed and appreciated together with these other initiatives. That is our understanding. We are not going to make these initiatives unfeasible. Despite some doubts about how some solutions are presented to us, we will always be available to improve the rights of kinship, equality and exercise of parenthood. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u85	For a second intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u86	Mr President, I just wanted to make a clarification. As Mr President of the CDS said, it is clear that we know the position of the CDS when approving the adoption by couples of the same sex and the drug procreation assisted to all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation, but the issue is outdated, it is in the law and therefore we all have to respect the laws, which are laws of the Republic. I would like to point out that in the draft law of the Socialist Party it is not at issue to create new rights, but rather to end a wrong interpretation that leads to certain homosexual couples—mother/mother, father/father and not father—not to be recognized these rights, by a simple and literal interpretation of the law. Where « father» is read, for example, « non-parturising woman». So that is what is at stake and, at the end of the accounts, those who get hurt are obviously children, because they are the beneficiaries of these rights that we are talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u87	Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regarding the projects of the Left Block and the PS, I mean that we follow your objective. It is obvious that granting rights in access to the techniques of LDCs (assisted drug procreation) and in relation to adoption by couples of the same sex requires that all rights arising there have been, in fact, the interpretation of the Social Security Institute, which we find clear, not making sense otherwise. Ensuring that these rights must be guaranteed and enshrined in the law requires all those who derive from this principle to be safeguarded. We therefore follow this matter, we understand that it is clear and that it is possible to be resolved as soon as possible. On other matters which we are discussing, in particular the proposal from the CFP, we believe that it is important, even within the working group that is set up in the Committee on Labour, to be able to deepen them. with regard to the CDS proposal, I would like to say that it is still curious that the CDS now leaving the Government presents a proposal similar to that presented by the CFP in the past legislature. At the time, the CDS was in the government and made it impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u89	That's what's going on with the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u90	This only confirms that where the CDS is good is in this place, it is not in the government, because when it is in the government it learns everything it has learned. With regard to this matter, and because what encourages the CFP are not revenges in relation to the CDS, but the guarantee of the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights and the best interests of the child, we are fully available to discuss these proposals. In addition, we have repeatedly proposed strengthening the rights of families with children with chronic disease and the position of the CDS, then in the government and in the Ministry — it was Pedro Mota Soares who was protecting the Ministry of Labour — that of not guaranteeing the strengthening of the rights of parents with children with chronic disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u91	That's not true! He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u92	It's true, it is! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u93	Therefore, Mr President, the path of progress will be made, and I am glad that the CDS is no longer in government! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Decrees-Laws No 96 / 2017 of 10 August, which establishes the scheme for private electrical installations, and 97 / 2017 of 10 August, which establishes the scheme for fuel gas installations in buildings[ Parliamentary assessments No 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 49 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has scheduled this discussion with the aim of contributing to the improvement and correction of standards which have been approved by the Government in diplomas which have been presented under the aegis of the so-called 'Simplex' programme. If, at first, we all agree to combat bureaucracy, the problem is when bureaucracy is no longer called into question, but rather the security of people and goods. We are presenting concrete proposals to restore some safety rules applicable to electrical and gas plant projects and to the circumstances in which such installations should be inspected. Let us now welcome the Delegation of the Order of Engineers, as well as the representatives of the various entities of the sector present here, and appreciate the contribution of all to the reflection and joint work we want to develop, with all the openness and availability on our part to find the best solutions. We are fully aware that no one wants to compromise the best safety standards and the guarantee of best practices. That is where the discussion must be held. On the one hand, we take into account the information that indicates that, from the projects of gas installations submitted to the assessment of the competent entities, one in ten was pointed out as lack of change for conformity and, in the electrical installations, there were six in every ten projects requiring correction, and often second and third correction. It is in this context that the Government replaces the approval of the project by a term of responsibility of the designer, a measure that has to require further weighting. We do not want to put everything as it was, but there are options we need to discuss and rethink on this matter, and also on the inspection of the facilities. One thing is to change a gas supply contract from the father's name to the child's name — there no one will defend that an inspection is necessary — but different is all the situations of already old housing, in which gas appliances, connections, exhaust conditions, etc. , they reveal themselves inadequate and so remain as the renters go by. The fact is, in these inspections, the rate of non-approval was more than 10 %. You may think it's little, but we think it's too much. And in these inspections it was possible to detect the problems that existed. So if we finish the inspections, we don't end the problems, they just stop appearing until, eventually, it's too late. Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is not a matter of disregarding the professionalism, dedication and quality of our professionals, either in the project or in the implementation, or in the maintenance of these facilities. The point is that there are no people immune to error, no materials immune to wear. The right time to correct a problem in this area is when the risk is lower, i.e. in the process of verification of conformity. One thing is to promote administrative simplification, another thing is to ease safety rules and principles. In fact, the question of the costs of these processes for citizens and for micro and small businesses is a real problem that needs to be dealt with, but in the right and proper manner. If a tragedy happens, it is neither the insurance nor the term of responsibility that brings a life back. What is needed is to minimize risks, because it is true that it is better to prevent than to remedy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u96	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Until the approval of the diplomas which today the Assembly of the Republic appreciates, both those relating to electrical installations and those relating to gas installations, consumers lived in a licensing scheme in which they not only paid for inspections that were not carried out in most situations, even if consumers so wanted, as no independent institution ensured the smooth functioning of the system, in particular in terms of safety. In some cases, we lived in a situation of private regulation of the licensing of installations. The current diplomas, which follow Law No. 14 / 2015 and Law No. 15 / 2015, regulate the exercise of these activities by field technicians and strengthen the role and responsibility of public institutions — the Directorate-General for Energy and ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity ) — in the safety of citizens. in the case of electricity, legislation of 1936 was repealed, adapting it thus to the new reality. It is good to say that the regulation that was in force, the Regulation of Licences for Electrical Installations (RLIE), was 1936, i.e. 82 years old. Thus, costs were reduced for consumers; administrative acts were simplified; technical design and technical accountability were valued, defining that the design of the project was reserved to projecters registered on professional orders; civil liability insurance was required for compulsory project activity by professional orders; conditions were created for greater control by professional orders in access to the activity of technicians registered on the platform; and the principle of unexception inspection was created, an auditing and technical verification mechanism, by government office. in the case of gas, the projector shall be responsible for drawing up the project and for issuing a term of responsibility for its conformity. This part shall be used for the proper execution of the installation by the installation entity, which shall issue a declaration of enforcement conformity. An inspection shall then be carried out by an inspection authority, which shall verify the ability of the installation to enter and operate and issue an inspection declaration. The holder of the gas installation is thus in a position to initiate its gas supply by hiring a marketer. More: situations such as changing the holder of a contract, with only formal character, supply of gas and conclusion of a new contract due to the change of marketer no longer require further inspection. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a work of the Government's greatest responsibility, which has been realized—in fact, following laws which were passed in the previous legislature—and, of course, the Government reiterates, in all circumstances, working together with the Assembly of the Republic on such important matters as this. Finally, I would like to point out that the legislation that existed assigned private entities, without any competition, a control over an area that should be verified by independent entities themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u98	Mr António Topa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u99	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members : Legislative Decrees Nos 96 / 2017 of 10 / 08 are under discussion in plenary, establishing the scheme for private electrical installations, and 97 / 2017 of 10 August, establishing the scheme for fuel gas installations in buildings, corresponding to parliamentary assessments Nos 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 49 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) submitted by the CFP. This legislation came into force on 1 January, on behalf of the deburocratisation, following the guidelines of the Simplex, amending the existing legislation to date, which essentially incorporates what I am going to mention below. First, the projects of the electricity and gas installations were not subject to approval by independent certified entities, sufficient for that purpose to submit a term of responsibility subscribed by their authors, in accordance with existing legislation and regulations. Second, for the operation of many electrical installations after execution it is no longer necessary to carry out inspections by certified inspectorates, sufficient to this end to present a term of responsibility issued by the installation company or the technician responsible for its implementation. Third, gas installations shall be subject to periodic inspections every five years only after 20 years from the date of operation of the installations. I would stress that this is not an amendment because it already exists in the previous legislation. Many other amendments have been made, not worth mentioning here because of a manifest lack of time. We are adept at the unbureauty and simplification of procedures, but it is our obligation to consider whether the current legislation, which has recently entered into force, does not call into question the safety and quality of the installations. Statistical data report that many projects have been and continue to be rejected and that many accidents have occurred even when the analysis of these projects and inspections carried out by certified entities. Now that there are no such approvals and checks, will there not be an increase in facilities that have been mismanaged and accidents? Oh, my God! As such, we should consider and evaluate some aspects of existing legislation, including the need for or not approval of projects, and what types of projects are concerned, and the implementation of inspections and the time limits for them to be carried out. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u100	On behalf of the legislation that must be effective — and we agree with the unburocratisation! — as regards areas that offer some danger, I would ask whether or not priority should be given to the quality of the facilities and to the safety of persons and goods. We follow up with requests for parliamentary assessments requested by the CFP. We believe that the diplomas concerned should be reduced to their parliamentary committee in order to be able to discuss them in a balanced way, enabling possible proposals for amendments to the legislation which entered into force on 1 January. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u101	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the representatives of the Order of Engineers and other professional entities in this sector who are attending the session. I also welcome the CFP for bringing this initiative to Parliament on the assessment of the legal systems of electricity and gas installations. We follow your concerns, with the safety of such facilities. The statistics that have come to the public on project reprobation rates as regards non-compliance and incidents reveal numbers that do not recommend flexibility of safety rules and that lie behind the requirement for projects and controls at electrical and gas installations. There is a consideration of consistency or consistency with other sectors, including telecommunications, where this requirement is much greater and where inherent risks are much lower than the risks arising from poor electrical installations. Having regard to this framework that exists in the area of communications, the proposal of the Left Block is intended to extend to all electrical installations the requirement of projects and inspections. We also propose clarification so that, in the context of the inspections, the project and the facilities themselves are assessed. We follow the recommendations and concerns of the CFP, both in the area of electrical installations and in the area of gas grid installations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u103	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that this should be discussed — and I thank the Communist Party for giving us this opportunity — on the basis of responsibility, supervision and information. in this respect, although it may seem strange — the concepts of Simplex and safety sometimes seem contradictory — from our point of view, the initiative and the proposed amendments comply well with these principles. In other words, if in the case of a gas installation the designer, who is a credited designer, seems to me that a double confirmation or double supervision does not make much sense. We therefore follow the legislation already approved. Since there is an accredited designer and a project that passes through a set of supervisory criteria by competent entities, we cannot always be questioning, even if we recognize that a percentage that I consider to be high may present inconformities. The work to be done is perhaps in the quality of project designer certification. As for the passage of periodic inspections from two to two years to three years, we also follow and seem reasonable. What I would do—and the Secretary of State mentioned that it is the Directorate-General for Energy and the ERSE that follow up—is to strengthen this duty of diligence in changing the holder, because not all changes in the holder are equal. In fact, as Mr Bruno Dias here said, this change can be from father to child, as it can be a change of owner, whose previous owner has changed a set of characteristics and the next owner does not have the ability to verify them. in this case, I believe that the duty of diligence is the responsibility of the new holder, who, having bought a property, should know whether that good he acquires is in conformity. Therefore, I also believe that it is not necessary to tighten the mesh of a mandatory inspection. in the case of electricity, in relation to installations that are not complex, it must also be the owner to have the duty of diligence to request, if you understand, an inspection. We can pass better training and information and strengthen the diligence of those who acquire good if we can improve, with the necessary care, both in the electrical installations and in the gas installations, by extending the periodic inspections from two to two years to three years. Given that technology and materials are different today, the CDS is comfortable with existing legislation. however, if they are meant to densify, in particular in the case of change of holder, or tighten the mesh a little further without questioning the essential, which is to simplify and simplify, the CDS will not oppose and is available for the debate either. There is another matter which has not been mentioned here and which also deserves our reflection — if you understand, we can work more on this matter — which is the issue related to stock gas, whose users are not subject to inspection. in this case, it is also the duty of diligence of those who acquire. however, still today, a law has been enacted that allows the sale of gas supplies in fuel supply stations and their exchange. Question: since 70% of shop gas users are elderly people living in regions where information and training is less, if there is a shop that is very close to a fire source inside the house, who controls this situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u105	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u106	I'm done now, Mr. President. It seems to us that it should not be very complicated, but a criterion must be created to measure the safety conditions of five to three years, it seems reasonable to us, in order to ensure the safety of a population that is not suspicious. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u107	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: First of all I want to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this debate, and also the technicians in the area here present, because this issue is important and must be placed in the right place. The so-called 'Simplex' is a strategy of transversal administrative modernization to the government which allows for improving administrative processes and reducing costs. It is a process that leads to a decrease in financial costs and opportunity. It was in this context, and well, that the current government has legislated on the regime of electrical installations and gas installations. These amendments — contrary to what has often been said — aim to create faster, safer and cost-effective processes for the consumer in compliance with the discipline of electricity and gas installations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u110	For example, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not acceptable for companies to wait about 60 days to connect electricity. The new organisation of the economy is not compatible with these procedures, stopped and adjusted over time. Portuguese consumers know well in their day to day how these inspections worked, and one of the points that we consider essential is the strengthening of electrical inspections, contrary to what is often mentioned. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, security of persons and goods is an essential vector. We will not compromise on that point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u112	One of the most demonstrative examples is the end of the statistical sampling inspections, which had been in force since 2002, in which—seen well—60 % of the facilities were not inspected and 40 % were randomly inspected, but, strangely, someone received 100 % of the inspections. In other words, 100 % of the inspections were paid, but only 40 % were carried out. A business model certainly very profitable but that did not protect consumers. That is, would it be normal for someone to pay a service that has not been performed, there are no security guarantees about installations, where the inspection service had been paid? What guarantees did these consumers have? With the new regime, the facilities with the greatest power are all being inspected, and the audits and technical checks are becoming a reality in the facilities with the lowest power. I would like to point out that periodic inspections of establishments which are intended to be publicised in the new regime are now mandatory from five to five years, with the aim of avoiding the danger of explosion. Unfortunately, recent events show how these periodic inspections, which did not exist in this way, are important. At natural gas level, the new regime allows the process to be faster and safer, eliminating the approval of the project, residing the responsibility, and well, in the designer. Another important factor to consider is the benefit in competition in the sector, facilitating the change of marketer and new contracts. More and better competition can only be positive for consumers. In short, we are available for possible improvements and for the debate of this diploma, in particular, provided that improvements are ensured in the protection and safety of people and goods, in the realization of a faster, safer process and with reduced costs for the consumer in the fulfilment of the necessary discipline at the level of electrical installations and natural gas. Always defend security and consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u113	For a second intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u114	Mr President, I would like to begin by referring to the constructive way in which the Assembly of the Republic is doing this debate and, in fact, making a very important contribution to the question which is currently being built in terms of having control over this situation in the public area. I would like to commend the work that the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ( DGEG) is doing on this subject and that is, in fact, to ensure what has never been in the public area and which is now. I would also like to commend the very constructive work we have had with the professional orders and with the sector, precisely on this issue. I would like to mention the full availability to work on this issue, taking into account precisely the subject, which is referred to here, of security, a subject which, I think, is cross-cutting to all parliamentary groups. But this policy must be focused on administrative simplification in this area and on reducing costs for consumers. I'd like to share with the House...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u115	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u116	Of course, Mr. President. I conclude by saying that, in the case of electricity, the regime we had cost consumers about € 210. What is in this diploma will cost each consumer, €25 and there is no simplification in safety, there is a reduction in costs. in the case of gas, there is no longer an inspection of change, of marketer or holder, and there is less than 50 € for each consumer. I think it is very important for the debate, which the Assembly of the Republic wants to do, to take into account precisely the reduction of costs essential to consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u117	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u118	Mr President, first of all, the CFP wants to value this discussion and this agenda, because this initiative of the CFP was really worth it, and also the constructive approach that generally emerged in this discussion. But there is a confusion that needs to be clarified, validating a job is not to assess or question the author of the work. Professional accredited, Mr. Hélder Amaral, is not infallible professional. As we said, no one is immune to error and no material is immune to wear. Speaking in Directorate-General, Mr Secretary of State, attention to the means and capacity to respond to the immense challenges that have been placed upon him. Mr Secretary of State and Mr Hugo Costa have mentioned several factual situations which occurred in the previous legal and regulatory regime and which, surely, no one here will defend, not even those which have allowed for years to keep the situation. As we have said, we do not want everything to be as it was before, but, we agree, the concrete matter that the CFP here has raised has nothing to do with the bureaucratic aberrations and even techniques that existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. We have to do a joint work of reflection and also of solution to identified problems and, once again, we reiterate all our openness and availability for this work that we have before us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u121	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the joint assessment of Decrees-Laws No. 96 / 2017 of 10 August establishing the system of private electrical installations [ Parliamentary assessment No. 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ), and 97 / 2017, of 10 August, establishing the arrangements for gas installations in buildings [ Parliamentary assessment No 49 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. I would like to inform the House that three amendments have been tabled in the Bureau, which fall to 6. the Commission, two to Decree-Law No 96 / 2017, the Left Block and the PCP respectively, and one to Decree-Law No 97 / 2017, the PCP. Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the discussion of petition No 287 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the reopening of the basic emergency service of the Hospital de Nossa Senhora da Aide ( Maria de Lurdes Faria Matos et al.) together with the draft resolutions 958 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by reopening the basic emergency service at Espinho hospital ( PCP ), 1255 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Opening of the basic emergency service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( The Greens), 1257 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of the basic urgency of the Hospital of Our Lady of Help, in Espinho ( BE ), and 1262 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a permanent service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( PSD ). Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on on on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to welcome the more than 9000 petitioners who sign this petition, also greeting the Espinho users and population for the fighting actions they have been developing in the defence of Espinho emergency service. In 2007 the basic emergency service at Espinho Hospital was closed. This closure, which deserved a strong challenge from the population, has brought great damage to the more than 35 000 users who were cared for in this service, limiting and preventing in many cases access to health care in this area. Users also warned at the time that the replacement ambulance would not respond to needs, which, in fact, has been confirmed by life. From the disappearance of the basic emergency service that these users are forced to travel several kilometers to the old Eduardo Santos Silva Hospital in Gaia, whose emergencies are the most congested in the country, in a hospital serving hundreds of thousands of users. In addition to this reality, the problems of travel, whether by public transport, which are slow, either by the increased costs of tolls in the former SCUT—and, on this matter, it was agreed that the solution is not as proposed by the PSD: transferring problems to a few miles ahead or a few miles back; the solution for the A29 portico, as for the porticos placed in the former SCUT, is exactly its elimination, as the PCP has defended and proposed several times in this Assembly of the Republic — whether also due to difficulties of displacement for the time spent on the journey of Espinho to the hospital of Gaia. in this discussion, it is also important to note that, in summer time, the council of Espinho almost duplicates its permanent population, and in other vacation periods the floating population increases significantly. Espinho has more than 31 000 inhabitants and the border regions of other municipalities, with historical links, with cultural and physical links to Espinho, total more than 74 000 inhabitants. We are talking about more than 100 000 users who can be treated in the Espinho emergency service, helping to decongest the emergencies of Gaia and Feira hospitals. The Espinho hospital has all the conditions for reopening the basic emergency service and that is why the PCP presents here this project, defending the taking of measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u124	... calendared for the reopening of the basic emergency service of Espinho hospital, which is a fair claim of the population to which the PCP here gives voice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u125	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2007, and within the framework of the so-called « emergency reform », the government then closed the basic emergency service of the former Hospital of Our Lady of Help, in Espinho. This reform, which is driven, in fact, exclusively by economic criteria, has led to a thorough reduction in the proximity of health services and a consequent reduction in the accessibility of users to health services. And this is exactly what happened in Espinho. In fact, following the closure of this service, for more than 10 years the people of Espinho have been forced to travel about 20 km to the old Eduardo Santos Silva Hospital in Gaia, travels made, in many cases, by roads, when in 2007 some of these roads were free. The closure of this basic emergency service, in addition to creating great constraints to the people of Espinho, in terms of time, costs and comfort, also contributes or is contributing to congestion the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia, with situations that sometimes do not need specialized urgency. In addition, the Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho Hospital Center serves about 600,000 inhabitants, becoming, at times of greater influx, a chaotic service, unable, in good time, to provide the best health care to the populations. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to us that the citizens of Espinho have to travel to the urgencys of the Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho Hospital Center, contributing to their congestion, when they have at their disposal a mounted infrastructure, equipped and even available to provide this basic health service, and only human resources are lacking. Moreover, in the year when the basic emergency service closed, this same hospital underwent improvements in order to install more specialized services, betting on a nearby medicine. Therefore, the Greens, through the legislative initiative that they bring to debate today, want to recommend to the Government to reopen the basic emergency service of the former Our Lady of Help Hospital, thus seeking to meet the demands of the thousands of petitioners, who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of greeting, as well as the Espinho Health Users Movement, which promoted the same petition and which was at the origin of this important agenda for the people of Espinho. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u127	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the approximately 10 000 petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic with a claim which is entirely fair and which the Block fully accompanies, and therefore also today presents a legislative initiative for reopening urgent services in the public hospital in Espinho. Anyone who lives in the municipality of Espinho, in the north of the Aveiro district, if you need to go to the emergencies at this time is obliged to travel to Vila Nova de Gaia, for which you have to do several kilometers in order to be able to access an emergency service, you have to pay, most of the time, to be able to access an emergency service and, if you do not have your own transport, everything becomes more difficult. Therefore, it is required to travel to congested emergencies of a highly differentiated hospital, waiting hours and hours in the emergencies of Vila Nova de Gaia hospital, when he could see his problem solved easily and quickly in the hospital of Espinho. The closure of the urgencys of Espinho hospital is completely irrational and represented, and represents, an obstacle to access to health. in fact, this hospital had emergencies until 2007 when the government decided, at the time, to make a terrible mistake and injustice towards the population, which was the closure of the emergencies. This error has passed governments supported by PS, PSD and CDS-PP and it remains. Now, what we, here, propose is that this mistake be undone and that justice be done to the people of Espinho, reopening the urgencys in this council. And for that, political will is enough. That is all, political will to reopen the emergency service. The place is there, the building is there, enough political will and the resources and professionals needed for it to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u130	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is only this decision that depends on the reopening of the emergencies and that is what we propose to the Assembly of the Republic: political will to reopen the emergencies of the public hospital in Espinho. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u131	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the PSD, to welcome these petitioners and, in the wake of what has already been said, to add that I am probably the only one in this Chamber who until 2007 was a user and user of the urgency of the Espinho hospital...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u133	There's more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u134	... and, from 2007 to today, user and user of the urgents of the hospital of Gaia, since the socialist government closed the basic emergency service at the hospital of Espinho. I will not repeat here the historical elements, which are correct and have been brought up by the other benches, but this is much more complex than what can be believed with these interventions. Today, the situation is very serious, and why is it so serious? Because, in addition to the urgency of Gaia hospital having a chaotic operation, there are no means in all other health units that could meet the needs of the populations of the municipality of Espinho and also of the south of Gaia municipality. Why? Because health centres have less and less means and schedules are increasingly tighter for unscheduled open consultations, which could provide part of the needs of those who go to the urgency of Gaia hospital. Therefore, it is important to say that the issue is not only the reopening of the urgency, which is supposed to be understandable, it is the whole health system that is working badly in that region and that is serving badly those populations. We have some doubts that, within the framework of the policy of emergency services in Portugal, it is realistic today to reopen this urgency, but we believe that it is within the reach of the Government that at least it can open a permanent service ( SAP ), with unscheduled open consultation at the Espinho hospital, which has all the conditions to serve, as has been said here, the people of Espinho and the neighbouring municipalities. Now, there is a question that I have to put to the benches which, here, present draft resolutions to recommend the reopening of this urgency and now also to the Socialist Party, which has closed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u135	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u136	They seem to agree, and they are, as regards the need to reopen this urgency, but who supports this government, who is indeed this government, you are! You have every means to comply with what you claim here. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u137	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u138	So I end up challenging the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u139	You really have to conclude, Mr President, that your time has already gone far beyond you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u140	...that, by giving political support to this government, they achieve what they recommend here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u141	And what will your 89 Members do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u142	Mr António Sales has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 9000 subscribers to petition No 287 / XIII ( 2. a ), requesting the reopening of the basic urgency of the old Hospital of Our Lady of Help, in Espinho. The Socialist Party is very sensitive to policies of proximity in the area of health,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u144	... but it is also sensitive to ensure the safety and tranquility of the populations and, above all, to improve territorial quality and equity. In February 2007 it was possible to subscribe cooperation protocols with six municipalities, including Espinho, which could solve, to the satisfaction of all, a set of problems of reorganization of the emergency network. The National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ) carried out transport planning in the new network architecture and, on April 17, 2017, reinforced the guarantee that the Council of Espinho will always have an ambulance available from INEM, operating 24 hours a day, despite its operational transit to the city's fire department, thus seeing its intervention capacity strengthened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Dispatches Nos. 13 377 / 2011 and 10 319 / 2014, both of the responsibility of the former Government, PSD / CDS, reiterate the current architecture of the hospital emergency reference network and its interface with the said pre-hospital network,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u145	Yes, there was no need there any more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u146	... which is why we do not understand the current demagogic rhetoric of the PSD, which seems to want to escape its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u147	Four years ago there was no need! There were no consultations!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u148	We even doubt whether it is the old or the new PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u149	There's the old PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u150	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, are meeting the conditions for this aggregating solution with the former Eduardo Santos Silva Hospital in Gaia to be a way to concentrate resources, gaining scale, quality and efficiency. No one would forgive a responsible government if, in order to escape the short-term unpopularity, it would tolerate the inequality of quality under the apparent proximity layer and use outdated models, unsafe for the citizen and, above all, deceptive in the false availability of resources and resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u152	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u153	I'm done now, Mr. President. The expectations of citizens are very important for the Socialist Party, but the guarantee of health security and the quality of service provided are fundamental to social cohesion and territorial equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u154	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the nearly 10 000 petitioners of the Espinho council who claim what is probably one of the priority missions of the State, i.e. quality health care. Obviously, we know that this has to be appropriate to what, then, is not only good network management as well as a proper resource commitment. But when you make decisions, you need to know what happens. Of course, when making decisions, it is interesting to know who took them, something that, for some parties in this House, only matters in some cases. It was curious how the PCP, the Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block treated this matter. Here there has been no attack on the National Health Service (SNS)! Is that what you're talking about? There is no destruction of the public health service! Is that what you're talking about? [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u156	Don't! It's not because Espinho users don't have an emergency, it's because it's the PS that's closed. [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] And, as the PS has closed down, Espinho users are less than users of any other health service that may have been involved during the PSD/CDS government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u157	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u158	The first thing these petitioners deserve is respect, it is to be treated like any other citizen. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u159	We are waiting for the CDS initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u160	These petitioners are not guilty that the Socialist Party has closed the urgency of the Espinho hospital, and therefore have a second treatment by those who support the Socialist Party today and who shamefully defend its cause. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] from our point of view, the position is the same, both at the time, when it closed, when we had government responsibility, as it is now. Do Espinho users have an adequate response right now? They don't. They don't! You must say it: you don't have! And they don't have a reason? [[Protests by PS Deputies Antonio Sales and Marisabel Moutela.]] They haven't, of course, because, contrary to what you say. Members of the Socialist Party, what was assumed at the time when the urgency ended was not met. It wasn't fulfilled and the gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u161	And what did you guys do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u162	As long as they were in the government, they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u163	Don't say it was in the previous government, because I'm just going to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It was already in this government that you wanted to question the medical emergency solution provided by INEM. [[PS protests.]] Not only did you close the urgency as you wanted to destroy the emergency solution, which is weak but exists and which, in spite of everything, you wanted to question. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u164	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. So, consciously, what we all have to do in this Parliament is think: is it possible to have an emergency solution? Yes or no? If the emergency solution is not possible, is it possible a SAP solution that solves the problem, at least partially? Is it possible, in terms of mobility, to ensure that the temporary recourse to Gaia hospital is made in better conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u166	You don't know the land!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u167	Or we are available for this debate consciously...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u168	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u169	... or, then, we render a bad service to a population that deserves the same respect as any other. The Socialist Party, by default,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u170	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u171	...and the parties that support it, out of shame, are not ensuring the response this population deserves. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u172	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of petition No 287 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 958 / XIII ( 2. a ), 1255, 1257 and 1262 / XIII ( 3. ( a). Before we move on to the statutory voting period, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 108 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ( ALRAM ), which is down to 5. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1265 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishs a possible committee to monitor the process of defining « Portugal 2030 strategy » within the framework of the multiannual financial framework ( PS )-2020, and 1268 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate approval of specific compensatory measures directed at brown ( PSD ) producers, which fall to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the voting period, but first of all, we are going to check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system to that end. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 206 presences, so we have quorum to vote. Let's start with vote No 469 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the limitations on political freedom and human rights violations in Equatorial Guinea ( BE ). To proceed with the reading of the vote, Mr Moses Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was reported this week that the Justice of Equatorial Guinea formalized charges against 135 militants of opposition to the regime of Teodoro Obiang. Without the accusation being disclosed and without a known date for the trial, the opponents will remain in prison in Evinayong, in the south-central part of the country, for time indefinite. The detainees are members of the Citizens' Party for Innovation, arrested for no reason, after having been arrested in Malabo and Bata, during the protests that occurred after the general elections of 12 November. Teodoro Obiang has been in power since 1979. This longevity of its consulate is the image of its elite and the economic interests which have often guaranteed it too much international coverage: the accumulation of wealth of the Obiang family contrasts with the misery of the population's generality, in a country where the average life expectancy for birth does not exceed 60 years. Equatorial Guinea has 63. the highest per capita GDP in the world, but organizations such as Human Rights Watch point out that ‘it has by far the greatest difference in all countries between its per capita product and its level of human development’. Equatorial Guinea joined the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, CPLP, in 2014 with the support of the Portuguese Government. The guiding principles of the CPLP are enshrined in the statutes of the organization, including the commitment to ‘ the primacy of peace, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and social justice. ’ The pursuit of these objectives is not compatible with serious human rights violations, reported or confirmed by international organizations, of which political arrests or summary executions without the right to appeal are just a few examples. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the detention of persons in Equatorial Guinea for reasons of mere political disagreement and all the limitations imposed on political freedom in that CPLP Member State ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u176	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 469 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u177	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u178	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u179	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, with regard to this vote, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1259 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the early completion of the review process of the fiscal calendar by reorganizing the delivery deadlines of the different tax declarations and by defining appropriate conditions for the making available of the completion and submission of such declarations ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1111/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a special support programme for Portuguese to be set up in Portugal as a result of serious political, economic and humanitarian crises in countries where they reside ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1256 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an extraordinary programme of support for Portuguese and Luso-descendants that, under social, economic and political circumstances abroad, return to the national territory ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1252 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the means of support for Portuguese citizens returning to the country ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 736 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Strengthens the legal-criminal protection of privacy of privacy on the Internet ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1260/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime, including the establishment of working groups to assess the criminal response to these phenomena and to evaluate existing legal and regulatory diplomas in the field of mental health ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, it is important to vote together now, on a number of requests submitted by the Left Block, the PCP, the PAN, the PS, and the CDS-PP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without voting for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein. 566 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish equality in parenthood in the event of adoption, including the adoption by couples of the same sex, and the use of LDCs techniques and extend the sole parental leave period of the father ( tenth fifth amendment to the Labour Code and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91/2009 of 9 April 2009 ( BE ), 177 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( PCP ), 738 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 introducing changes to the adoption regime and adapting the protection regime in parenthood to assisted medicinal procreation ( PAN ), 739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ), 740 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of parenthood in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex ( PS ), and 741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the allowance for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1240 / XIII was postponed ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to ensure that the accompanying pregnant women in the interlocutory displacements of the Azores have the shortcomings to work justified in labour law ( PSD ), because it is still awaiting the opinion of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, since the deadline given by the Assembly has not been exhausted. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 958 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by reopening the basic emergency service at Espinho hospital ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1255 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Opening of the basic emergency service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( The Greens). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1257 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reopen the basic urgency of Our Lady of Aid Hospital in Espinho ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1262 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a permanent service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u181	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u183	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the votes of the four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1209 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government combat trafficking in human beings for work purposes ( PAN), the initial text of which was replaced at the request of the author. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u185	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u186	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u187	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CDS-PP bench will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 982 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rehabilitation of housing groups designated by « Islands » in the city of Porto ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1193 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure unrestricted access of all municipalities to Community funds for investment in the Urban Water Cycle ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1258/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the « Islands » of Porto as a housing response and with reduced effort rates ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us also vote on draft resolution No 838/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by reopening the passenger rail service between Leixões and Ermesinde and its connection to Campanhã ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1261 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the impact of the reopening of the railway service on the Port Belt Line ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the drafts of lein.o 668 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Extends the application of Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support the victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen prevention and combat forest fires, to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( PCP ) and 674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u189	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u190	Please, Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u191	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u192	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members are also on approval of paragraphs 23 to 30 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 6, 7, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20 and 21 December 2017. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] It is also important to vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will report to us. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report of the Subcommittee on Ethics refers to the resumption of office in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ( c ). the Statute of Deputies, by Carlos Pereira ( PS ), electoral circle of Madeira, ending Maria Adelaide Ribeiro, with effect from 29 January 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption and termination of the mandate of the Members concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-26.u194	The opinion is under consideration, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 31 January, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: First, the general assessment of Bill No. 523 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creation of a single national register and specific EAC for the fun traveling economic activity called « Itinerant Activity of Fun » ( PSD ) ; Second, debate on draft resolution No 1079 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion and enhancement of the Gonçalo basket ( Guarda ) ( PS ) ; Third, discussion, in general, of Bill No 683 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality admitted to State institutions or comparable ( BE) ; Fourth, assessment of petition No 217 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the establishment of the National Child Safety Day ( APSI — Association for the Promotion of Child Safety ) ; Finally, we shall proceed to the examination of petition No 309 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request that the special pension supplement, assigned to the former combatants, be replaced by the anticipation of the retirement age ( Inácio Rodrigues da Silva et al.). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I still wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 17 minutes.]]
