ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, as you know, the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 993 / XIII ( 2 ) on the first item on the agenda is as follows: ( a ) — Proposals for solutions to the problems of wood production ( CFP ), 994 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass ( CFP ) and 1231 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme to promote the use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate and present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate to two draft resolutions aimed at structural intervention in forest policy and addressing the two main problems of the Portuguese forest — the planning and management and the price of wood and forestry yield. Blind follow-up to the Common Agricultural Policy and national policy options have led to the abandonment of the rural world and of the family farms that keep the inhabited territories. This socio-economic process had great implications for forest management and it resulted in the accumulation of large and continuous fuel loads in the rustic spaces, a question has to be addressed with short, medium and long-term measures. The reduction and control of biomass in forest areas is a response to these issues and a powerful measure to reduce forest fire risks, increasing forest resilience, implementing effective prevention and protection. These operations will have to have a diversified approach and different technical solutions. The State may and should resort to a set of financial instruments to encourage and promote such operations, including through Community funds, the State Budget appropriations, the Permanent Forestry Fund, among others. In response to this problem, the CFP recommends that the Government create the programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass by defining the way of government of the programme; the measures to collect and concentrate biomass for the supply of power plants, supporting, for example, the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises; the promotion of grazing, in conjunction with the exploitation of poor mountain pastures; the use of biomass in agricultural operations, for example through incorporation into the soil; the implementation and development of the National Controlled Fire Programme, already defined. As regards the profitability and price of wood, the most liberals will argue that the operation of the market will solve the problem, but the fact is that the existing market is completely distorted and without any transparency in price formation, by oligopolist positions, lack of significant export to eucalyptus and pine and other products and total lack of information on a significant part of the agents, particularly small and medium-sized forest producers. However, both the problems faced and the urgency required in the responses show that the forest cannot remain dependent or in the expectation of a wood production market that operates, regulates and corrects distortions and opacity, or significant areas and dimensions of the forest, particularly the environment, are out of the concern of these markets. The problem needs strong regulatory public intervention and State participation not only as a regulator but also, at least in a significant period, as part and body of last resort, in conjunction with producer associations. For effective valuation of wood through price, the PCP Parliamentary Group presents a set of recommendations that go through an intervention by the Competition Authority on transparency, abuse of dominant position and others; the identification of eucalipto stains and bold pineapple susceptible to immediate use; the creation of exchanges with the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests) for the marketing of wood products; the creation of an information platform for trade in wood; and the creation of a structure, with public sharing, for the marketing of wood. These proposals from the CFP are part of the policy which defends the country and which goes through the rational use of resources, through critical public investment policies, by combating depopulation and desertification, with the development of agriculture and fisheries, ensuring food sovereignty and security, by affirming and promoting a mixed economy with a strong public sector serving the country. But be clear: there will be no defense of the Portuguese forest without respect for the small and medium-sized producers or the fair remuneration for the wood they produce. They haven't said a word about it was one of the capital sins of the forest package, presented by the PS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u3	To present the CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a draft resolution recommending to the Government the creation of a programme to promote the use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption, with the allocation of monetary, fiscal incentives, or a combination of both, for those who transform their heating systems, whether gas or electricity, into biomass systems. And why this proposal? On the one hand, because the forests and other forests have a high fuel load on the ground and therefore constitute a huge risk of fire to the territory. On the other hand, because there is also a set of agricultural wastes, such as potash that is not incorporated into the soil, which also has a high energy potential that can be used. This residual biomass does not currently have economic value and is therefore not withdrawn from the field, but, if this biomass has a use, there will certainly be those who are interested in exploring it economically and will no longer be a problem to be part of the solution. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the forest is not clean, we all know, because the vast majority of the owners — yes, the Portuguese forest is mostly private, although the CFP wants to transform it into public — it does not or does not feel the economic return of the cost of cleaning. In the past, the forests were clean because the territory was lived and the bushes were used for heating the houses in the homes or for the beds of the animals. At present, we do not want to go back to the past, we want to evolve, innovate or use the good examples of simple things. What the CDS proposes today is nothing more than this: giving a value, a noble use, which is heating, to a by-product, which is agricultural and forest waste. This use, enhanced and stimulated by a tax or cash incentive to acquire heating equipment to agroforestry biomass and the transformation of existing ones, fed with other sources of energy to biomass, would have an extraordinary positive effect in the interior territories, thereby promoting a true territorial cohesion. Why? Because it would reduce the fuel burden of the forest, obviously reducing the risk of fire; it would dynamize the economy of the interior regions of the country, those where forest and agriculture are predominant, with the creation of small service delivery companies in this area, for example; and it would contribute, which is very important, is not despicable, to the national energy efficiency targets, which go through the reduction of energy consumption by 25 % by 2020. Mrs. Members, in 2012, new financial instruments were created that allowed private individuals to apply for the Energy Efficiency Fund for the installation of efficient solar panels and windows. What we are proposing today is an equivalent regime for biomass heating systems, which would allow individuals in their homes, but also authorities, in collective equipment, or the associative sector, to go along this path. The government's path is an alternative path, because it aims to install larger biomass plants of 15 MW, announced last July. But still this week, at a hearing in the Committee on Agriculture, the Secretary of State of the Forests announced something quite different, much smaller units, i.e. small centers sprayed by the country. Our path is different from the one proposed by the Government, but it can be a complementary and non-alternative path and therefore we call on our draft resolution to vote in favour. As for the two projects that the PCP brings to us today, they have very different characteristics. Draft resolution No 994 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which proposes the establishment of a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass, has a set of proposals which we believe are serious and will contribute positively to the debate on the recovery of forest waste. Draft resolution No 993 / XIII ( 2. a ), which proposes solutions to the problems of wood production, has a strong ideological slope, in a modern Stalinist version that aims to recreate the kolkhoses in a 21st century version,... [[PCP protests.]] ... denying the existence of the market and defending, and I quote, « a strong regulatory public intervention and the participation of the State, not only as a regulator, but also for a significant time as a party ». So we cannot follow this draft resolution. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u5	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Forests are complex systems that perform essential functions in the capture of CO2, in the retention and purification of water, in the fixing of soils, in the pasture in the shelter, in the survival of flora and diversified fauna and in many other domains essential to life. Forests cannot therefore be regarded as simple 'wood factories' more or less well paid to their owners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u7	from the point of view of the common interest, the increase of the profitability of woody production of forest spaces must be framed in planning plans that ensure the multiplicity of the valences of rural spaces and its own subsistence, ensuring environmental criteria and the preservation of ecosystems. That is why the income of small forest owners depends essentially on their association with forest management units ( FMUs ) that guarantee the planning and management of significant forest areas, consisting of small adjacent plots. In addition, only the associated small owners will be able to face and defend good prices for wood matter, because in the larger rows the low price of wood is a real problem as a result of a concentrated search in a very few powerful industrial groups. The State has to intervene, yes, by contributing and supporting the aggregation of small forest owners in forest management units, because it is for them that the law provides, and very well, positive discrimination within specific support. The State must intervene by compensating forest owners for the environmental services they provide to the community, something that only now begins to be understood but is still far from being realized. The State has an obligation to help mainly small owners, the very small owners, because they are less technically equipped, to take advantage of the numerous resources produced by the forest, as is the case with biomass. And here we must say that we consider the old generation of biomass plants, whose economic value, moreover, has always raised many reservations, including here in the Assembly of the Republic. A working group which was set up here in 2013 concluded that the idea that the construction of biomass plants throughout the country would resolve decisively the reduction of fire risk, I quote, « does not correspond entirely to reality ». Strangely enough, this idea is taken up by the current government. The current biomass power plants, fed from forest waste, are limited to the production of electricity and, eventually, heat. They are structures of low industrial and economic profitability, requiring strong financial support to be viable. They present very low net efficiency levels of electricity production, which results in the payment of a low value by tonne of biomass at the plant. Moreover, they are a source of CO2 which does not in any way contribute to mitigating the effects of climate change and achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Today there are other solutions that allow profitability with a much higher gross added value of biomass, by extracting from the raw material products of great diversity and with levels of energy efficiency above 70 %. We believe that this leap must be taken forward and we must abandon the idea of building the central country of biomass that is now anachronistic. The Left Block will shortly present an initiative in this regard for the use of biomass, without combustion or CO2 emissions. We consider a positive idea that the CFP today brings to us — a view that we will translate into the vote — as is the case with the use of indigenous breed pastoral care to clean up the vegetable undercover. But we believe it is necessary to point out new directions, towards an orderly forest, which yields its owners, especially small owners, and performs a wide variety of functions in favour of the community, including — but not exclusively — in the production of wood. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u8	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have three legislative initiatives that seek to contribute to addressing various problems on two important issues. On the one hand, the issues related to wood production and, on the other, the need — I believe that by everyone recognized — to proceed or create mechanisms for controlling forest biomass. Starting with wood production and, of course, without attempting to ignore the other potentials of the forest, including incinegetics or even agriculture itself, it should be noted that wood production assumes, or should assume, a decisive importance in the profitability of the forest. It happens that the wood market in our country is now absolutely dominated by large economic groups linked to cellulose. As if that were little, we have another given that comes to help the party: it is that, in most cases, the owners or tenants of the extensive forest production areas are exactly these economic groups. from here, there are, of course, two unhealthy evidences so that we can speak of a real woody market. The first is because this situation causes real price degradation, with all the consequences resulting from it, especially at the level of income of small forest owners, and the second, because it is an absolutely frightening obstacle to the flow of production of small forest owners. In addition, the current situation grossly contradicts any motivation for desirable dynamics around a sustainable and profitable forest activity. That is also why the Greens say that the the thesis that the market is responsible for regulating the forest, more than a fiction, is falsehood, a lie, a fraud. It is a falsehood, because the market does not look at the forest as a public good but, yes, as a simple commodity that is bought and sold and which represents little more than a source of profits for a few, few. It is a lie, because market rules are not compatible with environmental concerns, they represent, in fact, for the market, an obstacle to profit gain, rather quickly. It's a fraud, because the market itself does not regulate. And yet, because without the responsible intervention of the State, most likely we would walk to a country of eucalyptus up to the gardens, as, moreover, it was visible, with the tendency that followed the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, promoted by the previous government. In good time, the Greens put on the political agenda the need to stop the expansion of the area of the eucalyptus. And I say « in good time», because it will always be better to be a land by sea planted than a eucalyptal by the liberalized sea-side. However, State intervention cannot be left simply by the effort to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus, the forest requires more and more public intervention. And intervention also at the level of the wood production market, which is intended to be transparent, informed and able to guarantee paid prices to production. We therefore consider that the proposals of the Portuguese Communist Party can make an excellent contribution to this purpose. With regard to the proposals on forest biomass, which today are brought to us by the PCP and the CDS-PP, it is important first of all to bear in mind that the policies that have been followed not only by the various governments in recent decades but also at the level of the CAP's Common Agricultural Policy have led to an obvious, notorious and sense of abandonment of the rural world and a desertification of the interior of the country without parallel in our history. This new reality in terms of occupation of the territory and the consequent massive abandonment of agricultural and other activities associated with the rural world created a set of serious problems, from the outset the exponential increase in the amount of fuel, which ceased to be removed from the forest and agricultural areas when there were no more people in the fields and in the rural world. This growing accumulation of forest biomass continues to pose a serious danger to our forest, as has been seen, in fact, every year with forest fires and, above all, with the tragedies of last year. Thus, a problem is created that requires answers and solutions, even because forest fire protection still demands, in addition to structural prevention, forest planning or surveillance, solutions capable of reducing and controlling forest biomass, with the assumption that the risk of fire will be further reduced. in this context, The Greens view the proposals, today under discussion, as important contributions to solving a serious problem or, better, to contribute to the removal of a imminent danger that the accumulation of forest biomass represents for the forest, but also for people and their goods in terms of forest fires, as in fact last year was very visible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u10	Mr Mauricio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the Portuguese Communist Party and the CDS-PP for once again bringing the theme of the forest to plenary from the beginning of this legislature, and for the worst reasons, that the theme of the forest has been a constant in Portugal. The Portuguese forest has been the subject of many considerations, many proposals, many legislative initiatives; however, little or nothing is happening in the field. The data recently released by the INE (National Institute of Statistics ) show that, for the current majority, austerity in the forest is to stay and be aggravated. Otherwise, we see: in 2016, public investment in the forest decreased, also reducing all forest prevention actions. The Portuguese Communist Party has not yet realized...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u12	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u13	... that the areas that have increased most in recent years, in Portugal, were exactly the areas of mattes and uncultivated, precisely due to lack of profitability of the forest. Therefore, it has been presenting measures that, to be implemented, more abandonment would cause in the real rural world. Draft resolution No 993 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) is a real attack on the private initiative and a sector which, despite all the vicissitudes, adds much to the national economy. in this draft resolution, the Portuguese Communist Party can confront all those who add value to forest products, particularly producers, timber workers and the processing industry. We understand that the Portuguese Communist Party wants to statify a whole row, generating wealth and creating thousands of jobs, as they have done at other times. We are waiting to see the reactions of your current majority partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u14	When was that? When?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u15	As we have had the opportunity to mention, these are the worst reasons that lead us to produce an abundance of parliamentary legislation on the forest. If the 2016 fires were severe, the 2017 fires were a scourge, the events were tragic. As has already been said, the National Institute of Statistics has revealed that prevention actions have been substantially diminished with the current majority, with the consequences known. However, we recognize that the fuel load in the forest substantially increases the danger and risk of forest fire spread. Draft resolution No 994 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) submitted by the CFP, recommends that the Government create a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass. It is our understanding that the fuel load must be reduced by various routes and that it must be monitored and monitored. Draft resolution No 1231/ XIII ( 3 ) a ), submitted by the CDS, recommends that the Government promote a programme for the promotion and use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption. If we understand the intention, we doubt its practical applicability. The direct use by the consumer of agroforestry biomass has too many risks, because the calorific power of such waste is too low, which would, contrary to what is said, force the existence of large thermal generators. We recognize that we have to value by-products, as well as forest biomass, in order to reduce fire risks, using this fuel indirectly, for example, through pellets. This is our intention: to do everything to reduce the existing biomass within the forest in order to increase its resilience to fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u16	Mr Joaquim Barreto, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us once again resume the debate on the forest following the draft resolutions of the PCP and the CDS-PP. I am very pleased to participate in this debate. They will forgive me this little biographical note, but I do not resist making my interest public, my professional and political journey with feet always based on the rural means of the interior and, in particular, on territories with forests that I have always defended, as well as its people. Now, it's time for action! With the differences of thought and action, I think it is imperative that the issue of forests should be the subject of the greatest national consensus. I congratulate the PCP and the CDS-PP for bringing these matters to discussion. This is also the time of the Assembly of the Republic to give consistency to public policies, presented by the Government during this legislature, for the forests. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We recognize that the markets for wood products are not perfect, particularly that of eucalyptus and pine, as well as that of cork. They are, in part, markets dominated by cellulose oligopolies / paper paste and agglomerates. Cortice has the same problem, as it is also dominated by processing industries. These markets need more and better regulation. Forest producer organisations will have to evolve in support of their partners for the marketing of these products. The market for forest products exists. There is an internal trade and the borders are open to the circulation of wood. It is not denying a reality that it ceases to exist. The regulated forest products market will even be virtuous in the production of welfare for society. We defend a market to produce more and distribute better forest wealth. I reaffirm today what I have already said in previous speeches. We cannot ignore and ignore that more than 35% of continental Portugal has forest fitness. Over the past 15 years, we have lost more than 150 000 ha of forest and have had an increase of more than 300 000 ha of forest and pasture, as a result of the loss of forest and uncultivated land. Now is the time to also economically value forest products. At the economic level, it is important to ensure the profitability of investments in this sector, increasing areas with forest and enhancing industry-based activities. However, the economic dimension of the forest should not be reduced only to woody products. The forest must be considered as a multi-purpose space to attract and motivate the people living there and there develop economic activities, including forest producers, shepherds, hunters, beekeepers, sports lovers, nature and leisure, among others, who will need more development opportunities. We must add environmental, social and knowledge dimensions to the economic dimension of forests. These dimensions that are now outside the market perimeter are often forgotten in the analysis of the importance of forests! Now is the time to value the forests environmentally and socially. At the environmental level, with the expansion of forests, we are fixing carbon, improving the water cycle and maintaining soil balance while at the same time promoting eco-sustainable products and biodiversity. At social level, we must guarantee forest owners remuneration and income proportional to the capital and work applied in the management of forests with a fair distribution of wealth. to consumers, we must ensure the continued production of ecosystem services at fair prices. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It will be imperative to change the forest management paradigm focused only on the production of woody material, with the consequent forest fires. The new paradigm of forests will still have to be focused on the social, environmental and knowledge dimensions. We must give priority to forest management and prevention in order to reduce costs with the fight against forest fires. The reduction of biomass is undisturbed in forest policy, with professional forest management, which involves and responsible owners, forest technicians of forest engineering and communities. Decree-Law No 64 / 2017 and Declaration of Corrigendum No 20 / 2017 approved the schemes for new forest biomass plants. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 163 / 2017 of 31 October adopted the National Plan for the Promotion of Biorefinarias. This legislation, in force, values forest biomass with the incorporation of scientific knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u18	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u19	The draft resolutions that are being debated today do not consider the enhancement of forest biomass and the development of new technologies, such as bio-refineries, which present a strong strategic alignment at the level of European and international research and innovation programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u20	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u21	The resolution of the deep and structural causes that are at the basis of the degradation of forest spaces essentially involves the realization of this new paradigm of focusing forest policies on the enhancement of the environmental, social and knowledge dimension. Just by the economic and market road, we're not going there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u22	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u23	As someone said, "there will be more life than the deficit" and there will also be more life in the forests than the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u24	For a second intervention, Mr João Ramos, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To make it clear, and contrary to what the CDS says, the CFP does not want to turn the entire forest into a public forest, but the truth is that many experts say that one of our country's problems is the small percentage of public forest. And I'm not sure the CDS has never said that before. However, the Basics of Forestry Policy Act states that it is up to the State to increase the area of public forest and the CDS has been in the Government still recently and has not changed that Basics Law in this regard. Regarding the reduction of biomass, the CFP solutions are multiple, there will not be one solution. We understand that one of these solutions passes through biomass plants and also through the collection of biomass, which is a fundamental element, because of the issues of profitability and grazing. It is very nice to talk about'seating goats', it is in the ear, but then, in concrete, mountain pasture is eligible only by 50 %. These measures need to be amended.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u26	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u27	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PSD says that the PCP did not realize that it was a cost-effectiveness problem, but the PCP has a project to solve the cost-effectiveness problem of woody material. The problem is, when you talk in the markets, here d’el-rei,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u29	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the problem is that when we speak in the markets, here in el-rei, comes the « heavy cavalry » of the « these », all against the PCP, thinking they offend you, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca. I am resting — and I will finish, Mr President — because what reality has shown, what the 2017 forest fires have shown is that...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u30	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u31	... have failed the policies that you have developed for the forest and the markets have also failed. Markets haven't solved the forest problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u33	...and they will never solve, because markets are not concerned about people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u34	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 993 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 994 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 1231 / XIII ( 3. ( a). We're going to move on to the second point of our agenda, but first, I'm going to give Mr. Duarte Pacheco the floor to make some announcements. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions 1242 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Designation of the Single Prosecutor of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) ( PSD and PS ), 1244 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From the immediate start of repair work at the Alpendorada Secondary School, in the Town Hall of Marco de Canaveses ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1245 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the date of the travel of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe ( President of the HR ) and 1246 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of a tender for the hiring of newly-specialist doctors up to 30 days after the conclusion of the medical institution ( BE) and draft deliberation No 17/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Commemorations of the V Centenary of the Circum-Navigation commanded by the Portuguese browser Fernão de Magalhães [ makes the third amendment to Deliberation No 2 - PL / 2016 of 29 January ( Set the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in XIII Legislation ) ) ( President of the AR ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u36	Let us then move on to the second point of our agenda, with the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1006 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme for monitoring and minimization of wild fauna in the National Road Network ( The Greens ), 1238 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an impact assessment of the outbreak of animal husbandry in the ecosystem and adopts preventive measures in accordance with the results ( NAP) and 1233 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures for monitoring and mitigating the road running of animals ( BE ). To present the Greens draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Conservation of nature and biodiversity has always been, and remains, a priority in the intervention of the Greens. Much has been debated in the Assembly of the Republic to strengthen the means of surveillance and investment within our classified areas. But we must be aware that conservation of nature is not restricted to these areas and must be promoted throughout the territory, seeking to reconcile human action with the defense of species and biodiversity, which are the basis of the balance of our global ecosystem. The issue that The Greens have introduced on the parliamentary agenda and which today bring to the plenary is another contribution to helping to curb the high rates of biodiversity loss. Thus, the Ecological Party "The Greens" presents a project that aims to create a program for minimization and monitoring of wild fauna runoff on the National Road Network. In fact, the death of wild animals on the Portuguese roads is unfortunately a common and often witnessed reality, including endangered species. Even animals released, under reintroduction programmes, are sometimes killed on the road, as happened in May last year in Mértola, with a lynx released a few hours earlier. There are wildlife groups that are strong and often affected by roadways, such as micromamifers, birds, reptiles and batracians. There are also studies conducted on some sections of Portuguese roads that have allowed to detect some areas of greater mortality of wild animals and that have already quantified some realities framed in a certain temporal and geographical space. These studies have resulted in verifications and estimates to indicate that mortality of species due to stroke in CI (additional route) and IP (principal route) can exceed 260 000 animals annually. We could exemplify a number of cases here, but the truth to be concluded is that there is no reliable record of the mortality of wild animals due to road traffic in Portugal. But there are other aspects related to these embezzlements, which must be of effective concern and attention. It is not unusual for car collisions with wild fauna to result in accidents with harmful consequences for vehicles and, fundamentally, for their occupants. In addition to having an impact on biodiversity, wildlife hits represent even the main threat to its survival for many species. Roadways thus constitute effective physical barriers for many animals and reveal ways of fragmentation of important areas for feeding and reproduction of some species, having an impact on the level of population and genetic isolation of species. Another recurring issue is the non-collection of slaughtered animals, even when reported, and the fact is that dead animals on the roads attract other predators who also end up as victims of vehicles in circulation. I leave only one example: on the Cape Reta, national road No. 10, in a section of only 10 km, between Samora Correia and Vila Franca de Xira, the hitchhiking of bruvia fauna is a daily and constant reality. In addition, it is noted its proximity to the Natural Reserve of the Tagus Estuary, with a great presence of biodiversity. Nevertheless, this road route is not at least equipped with devices that prevent the death of animals. It is therefore time to take comprehensive measures and ensure efficiency in preventing the exploitation of wild animals on the Portuguese roads. The Greens therefore propose that Parliament mobilise the Government to implement a national programme for monitoring and minimizing wild fauna species in the highways, which sets out measures to correct this reality. This is the objective of the legislative initiative which the Greens bring today for discussion and hope to be able to count on the agreement of the other parliamentary benches. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u38	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, nearly 120 animals are killed every year on each road kilometer. Many thousands of animals are killed every year, but little or nothing is done to combat this scourge. We are dependent on studies presented by non-governmental organizations and universities or on statistics from the security forces to reach these numbers, yet insufficiently and not representatively. The State has no specific data on this matter and the lack of data adds to the lack of official and mandatory preventive measures. Here we speak of the daily death of wild animals such as boars, foxes, deer, wolves or lynches, but also many birds, reptiles and amphibians. And, of course, this is a reality that obviously affects drivers, causing accidents that often result in serious injuries or even in the death of the driver. The NAP has concrete proposals to put forward to change this reality. We propose that an impact study be carried out in Portugal, identifying the most problematic sections and periods and the most affected species. But it is necessary to develop studies of technical feasibility and environmental impact, to adopt measures to ensure the safe movement of wild animals across the national territory, helping the crossing of wild fauna with the installation of signaling and speed reducers, air or underground passages, bridges, fences or reflectors. For this to happen, it is urgent to adopt a public national register of wild animal accidents and to strengthen monitoring in areas with a higher incidence of accidents. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, knowing this scourge properly and taking urgent preventive measures to put an end to the mortality that affects wildlife and ecosystems we will be able to take another step in Portugal, respecting and protecting the lives of people and animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u40	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Roads and transport infrastructures are artificial barriers which, not rarely, alter the configuration of habitats and ecosystems of species. If we have ease of adapting to the rigidity of these buildings, the animals end up without mechanisms to defend and understand the danger of changes in the spaces they inhabit. Also not rare, the construction of these pathways has, in its projection, few measures to mitigate the fragmentation of ecosystems. In Portugal, several universities have programmes to study the impacts of so-called 'grey infrastructure' on biodiversity. In Aveiro, in Évora and in Porto there are projects that collect and systematize these data and that also inform the Infrastructures of Portugal. Studies indicate that the ecology and etology of animals, either due to daily displacements or migrations, either due to physiological needs, increase the risk of atropellation. However, this knowledge has not been poured into an integrated plan defining monitoring measures at national level, as well as subsequent implementation of mitigation measures. For this reason, animal husbandry continues to be a problem of considerable dimensions and without adequate solutions on the Portuguese roads. This is a different situation in its origins, in its affected species and at various risks. There are logs of wolf and lynx poisoning, as well as other minor carnivores and mammals. Road problems with large boars and ungulates are also common. There is also the problem of running pet animals and other animals, whether from livestock farms, erring or even undercover, and smaller animals such as amphibians, reptiles, birds, bats and small mammals are most often underestimated because they are rapidly degraded or quickly removed by necrophages and predators. Animal mortality on roads has a proven systematic component and areas with a higher incidence. Monitoring and implementation of mitigation measures, such as underground passages or signage, and others, is required for ecosystem maintenance and also for road safety. We therefore propose a working group involving the various public entities, from the outset the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature e delle Forestas), the National Road Safety Authority, the SEPNA (Naturity and Environment Protection Service) and the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), as well as universities, which have already developed a lot of work in this area, and non-governmental associations, with the aim of creating a national network of monitoring and implementation of measures that protect ecosystems and also guarantee road safety, minimizing the exploitation of animals and other impacts. We also recommend that special attention be paid to areas close to protected habitats and areas, which systemize data annually, that this network be provided with human and financial resources, and that this structure create environmental education and awareness programmes for the populations and users of the roads, as a way to minimize these attacks and the attack on animal ecosystems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u42	Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The effects of road infrastructure on wildlife, both in the construction phase and in the exploitation phase, are signalled, with mortality due to afloating one of the identified impacts. The negative incidences on the fauna are not exhausted in road traffic, but it is admitted to have a significant significance in particular. The foundations underpinning the recommendations that we are discussing today point to concerns in the areas of the threat to biodiversity and road safety, in particular in this case, when large-scale specimens are concerned. In fact, the studies on the subject under consideration are small in number in our country, but what already exists allows us to conclude by the pattern similarity identified in other countries. from that point on, even without a real estimate, it is possible to point out the fact that the threat falls on many species. As we are sure that we are not faced with a new concern, we recognize that the issue needs to be deepened and we see the intervention accelerated. There are already supporting works that point to the attention that the subject deserves, such as the support manual for project analysis related to the implementation of linear infrastructures, which dates from 2008 and provides a good support for the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity. This is a document that has well signalled the parameters of requirement for safeguarding species and ecosystems. The report also summarizes the monitoring of Wildlife Mortality in the Stradas of the ancient Stradas of Portugal, today Infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ), dated 2014, is a document to be taken into account in the analysis of the impact of animal husbandry on about 14 000 km of road. Moreover, this work, resulting from the concession contract signed with the public undertaking, included, as mentioned above, two parameters which aimed at « reducing the mortality of wildlife on roads and increasing the use of animal transit structures ». It was in this context that the company signed at the beginning of 2010 a protocol with the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon, precisely to develop the monitoring of animal mortality on roads. This report reports on this analysis, identified black points and identified minimisation measures. The initiatives presented to the Plenary want exactly what we mentioned earlier, but in a broader way. Finally, it is intended to recommend the implementation and consolidation of monitoring practices, based on properly designed plans, it is also intended, from the actual data, to implement minimisation measures, with solutions already identified and, in known cases, to correspond to the objectives. We agree, for all this, with the assessment of the impact of animal husbandry, particularly on wild fauna, and in this, in threatened species, including small size, through monitoring, as well as with the development of mitigation measures, which must be given new impetus, in order to make these practices current, and therefore we support the initiatives that have been put forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u44	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Carlos Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here, in the neighbouring country, where it is possible to have more reliable data, until in Spain there is a specific programme for the follow-up to the mortality of wild fauna on roads, a minimum of 30 million vertebrates die annually due to runoff. It is an impressive value, as impressive is the number of wildlife species identified in these mortality surveys, close to 400 different species. In Portugal, the situation will not be very different, as much as it is possible to evaluate from the few studies that have been carried out, especially since the 1990s, but the truth is that we do not have real monitoring programmes, of no structured program to follow up the mortality of wild fauna on our roads. We therefore take advantage of the opportunity and support much of the recommendations currently under discussion, in particular those contained in the draft resolution of the Greens Ecological Party, which seem to us to be balanced and provide adequate answers to the problem identified. He said « part of the recommendations » because, in fact, we cannot support, for example, the draft resolution of the NAP, because we believe that conservation of nature begins by requiring an effort to adhere to reality, which does not seem to reflect that diploma. « Duplication of roads,..." — I quote — «... roads and railways to mitigate the risks(...) and register(...) with registration of the number, not only of the animals killed, but also of the animals injured, identified by species, gender, age, location». With all due respect, Mr Deputy, it is only missing the family name, nickname and postal code. They are therefore not viable and reasonable measures. As regards « ensuring the safe movement of wild animals across the national territory », it does not seem to us that it makes sense to recommend that the Government ensure the safe movement of wild animals throughout the national territory. In fact, Mr President, neither would the government have 'paint' for this — nor, for the most part, for this — to ensure that a frog or a hare would circulate safely throughout the national territory, so we feel that it is not worth recommending such measures. Having said that, we understand, with balance and adherence to reality, that this is an important matter, which justifies the search for consensus with a view to creating the conditions for minimization of this serious environmental problem, the atropelling of wildlife species on Portuguese roads, and, on our part, we will be on the side of the search for consensus. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u46	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Alerting dead animals when travelling on national roads is frequent. Although there are no official data on this reality in our country, except for the accidents with large animals registered by the GNR ( Republican National Guard), there are some studies, developed in the last two decades, which identify a somewhat worrying reality but more than that, which requires further knowledge on it, in order to find solutions that minimize the running of animals on the road. These studies, developed primarily by the academy, refer to small sections of some national roads, and only in some districts. In the periods and areas under study, small mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds, including nocturnal prey, as well as some protected and endangered species, such as the iberian lynx, were found. These studies have also identified that there are peaks in the tropics, which coincide with the periods in which the animals seek food, periods of migration and reproduction, or simply due to their biological characteristics, of which the snakes are an example, which use the roads for thermoregulation. Studies also reveal the need to intervene to protect animal species and biodiversity. We support, in general, the proposals that aim to deepen knowledge about this reality and minimize the exploitation of animals on road roads. We believe that these objectives are indeed worthy, however, that there is a need to elaborate a little more on how some of these proposals are intended to be implemented. For example, who would take responsibility when the NAP proposes the creation of a national register on these issues? If we are to find solutions which, on the one hand, allow us to have an effective knowledge of this reality and, on the other hand, to intervene on it, with a view to reducing the catchment of animals on the road, it seems to us very well adjusted the proposal for the creation of a national programme, as proposed by the Greens Ecological Party. A programme which provides for the adoption of measures which, for example, may create alternative passages that respect the nature of animals and which, in some situations, may result in the impediment of access to the road of such animals. A programme which also provides for the adoption of other measures, which experts understand to be appropriate, in order to protect the ecosystem and biodiversity, and which also ensure the safety and physical integrity of those travelling on the road. A programme which does not remain on the paper, which provides for a timetable for the implementation of corrective actions and for minimization of the animal catchment. In order to achieve this programme, more means are needed. In our perspective, the development of the country also involves the protection of nature, biodiversity and the protection of animal species. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u48	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prevention and road safety, as well as the conservation of wild species, especially those most threatened, and biodiversity are aspects that we think are fundamental, which is certainly and as we have already heard, consensual in this House and transversal to all the political forces represented here. Thus, initiatives aimed at the protection and development of wildlife and which, at the same time, aim to reduce one of the factors of road sinequality, contributing to the safety of drivers, are welcome and obviously have our support. In fact, I recall here that the last step taken in this field in Portugal was exactly the previous Government, the PSD Government and the CDS-PP, with the measures introduced to protect the Iberian lynx, and this was the last step taken in this regard and on this subject. The draft resolutions of the NAP, the Greens and the Left Block reflect, in their explanatory statement, these two realities: the concern, on the one hand, with the defense of the wild fauna and, on the other, the consequences that the affrontages have for the vehicles and, above all, for their occupants. The question that motivates us, however, is that in none of the initiatives we are discussing here we see mirrored in these recommendations that they intend to make to the Government this dual aspect. Any concern related to the drivers of vehicles and the occupants of these same vehicles which are engaged in animals is never apparent or noted in the various recommendations that the proposing parties submit. We understand that one path that must be followed is to strengthen surveillance and surveillance on certain roads, particularly in motorways, the responsibility of dealers, protected areas and other areas already identified as problematic, in addition to awareness campaigns with populations, particularly with drivers. Some of the recommendations of the proposing parties are relevant, in particular with regard to the implementation of monitoring of accidents with wild animals, identifying problems and identifying appropriate solutions, with the participation of various entities, including those related to nature and biodiversity conservation, the management of road networks and police authorities, as well as campaigns that promote greater environmental awareness in this area. However, we reaffirm: in these recommendations, there is a lack of fundamental concern about the physical integrity of the drivers and occupants of the vehicles that use the routes in question here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u50	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are pleased to note the agreement reached in this Chamber on the subject under discussion, addressing Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco directly, since it seems that we have not read the project we presented. In the explanatory statement of our diploma, we anticipate the issue of road safety, which is why we included in the working group the National Road Safety Authority, which covers the concern with drivers and road accidents, and we do not fail to think that these are measures that also take into account animal safety and that are mitigation measures regarding the fragmentation we cause in their ecosystems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u52	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 344 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the inclusion of the Personal Planning Project in the curriculum of education in Portugal ( Sonia Márcia Gonçalves et al.). Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate all the petitioners and all the petitioners who, in the exercise of democracy, brought a petition to the Assembly of the Republic with a set of ideas, in particular on personal planning. But before some considerations that the Left Block wants to leave here for reflection, it is also important to speak of a supposed curriculum review and of the importance that a true curriculum review has for public school. It was also in this legislature — and it is important to highlight — that two important debates were opened, the first on the profile of the student for this century. It is from there that we can draw some of the essential lines for what we believe, on the one hand, which should be the competences of students outside compulsory education, public school, but on the other hand also the competences that this public school itself must have and guarantee throughout this entire school course. On this subject, we can even talk about some of the proposals and reflections that the Left Block has brought to Parliament, particularly on the importance of citizenship in school. The school cannot focus solely on the teaching of the classroom, on the main subjects, it must ensure that the participation of citizenship is mainly part of the daily life of all students and all students. We have also tried, throughout all this time, to discuss important issues, including the excessive number of students per class and the lack of psychologists in public schools. They are two fundamental subjects which often lead to students and their paths not being properly treated and accompanied by their teachers and for whom the debate is held all day at public school. These are fundamental matters for us. Today, we cannot continue to assume that in a group of schools there is only one or, sometimes, no psychologist to accompany these children. Having put these considerations, we should also say that the question which is put directly through this petition puts us a set of reluctances. It does not seem to the timely Left Block, in a so-called curricular review, to put the questions of personal planning on the table, namely because there is a set of other matters that the Left Block and, if it is said to be passing, other political parties in the Assembly of the Republic have been raising, in particular, the importance of hiring more psychologists and also the reduction of the number of students per class. They seem to us to be two fundamental issues for this Parliament which deserve to be addressed not only by the Assembly of the Republic, but also by the Government. We will be aware that, surely, if we achieve these objectives, part of the questions posed by these petitioners will have a new answer, certainly more positive than that which exists today in public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u54	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating all those present. PSD wants to greet more than 4100 petitioners. Whether or not it agrees with the demands and concerns of the citizens, the PSD believes that it is always to praise its initiatives, the ability to bring its views and aspirations to the Assembly of the Republic. unlike others, the PSD believes that it is the discussion that emerges the good decisions, that is to hear that is learned and that it is to respect those who think differently that we gain respect. Unlike the parties that support the current government, the PSD never wanted to please everyone. We don't just tell people what we think they want to hear. The PSD is not afraid of the decisions of the free and informed citizens. It was also in the light of these principles that the PSD implemented the autonomy of schools and educational communities. That is why the previous government, after introducing curriculum flexibility in 2014 and 2015, immediately concluded 212 autonomy contracts with so many other groupings. Because we believed and had the ability to implement freedom, the introduction of the offer of personal planning and meditation, as the petitioners ask, or any other extracurricular activity, at this time it is up to the schools due to the contracts of autonomy, because they have the competence to build their own pedagogical projects. We've always believed and bet on institutions. It is recalled that, due to the PSD initiative, with the exception of Portuguese and Mathematics, autonomy allows schools to use up to a quarter of the educational burden of each discipline to apply new teaching methods. They have autonomy to manage the distribution of disciplines throughout the school cycles to join blocks of time, to devote themselves to specific projects, to create new disciplines and activities. It was the PSD/CDS government that gave autonomy to educational communities. Therefore, and as long as the school wishes it, it is already possible since 2014 to carry out the object of this petition. In the PSD we continue to believe in the ability and responsibility of schools to guide and decide their future. After all, everyone knows that in PSD we do not want to make a world in our image, where there is no room for difference or divergence, much less force everyone to think or believe what we believe. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there are those who stand up for something very different here. Mrs. Petitioners, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after betting on freedom, on the autonomy of the schools where all projects and initiatives fall, there is only one way to the PSD: to continue to bet on the responsibility, freedom and autonomy of schools. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u56	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the 4167 subscribers, stressing the commitment that this discussion of the proposed inclusion of the Personal Planning Project - Personal and Professional Empowerment in the curriculum matrix of teaching in Portugal should be implemented. He praised the effort and dedication to this cause. According to the petitioners, this is a personal and professional framework tool for the development of emotional control, which aims at teaching on the development of the student's self-knowledge, helping him to get to know himself, to improve relationship capacity and to manage competitiveness. It is also mentioned that the aim of this study is to strengthen the self-esteem of students, promoting peer respect by helping in school success. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the proposal in question raises doubts as to what it intends. On the one hand, it proposes that the project "can be implemented in the curricular matrix of Portuguese teaching" and, on the other hand, states that it would be an extracurricular activity. The competences proposed by the petitioners, including concentration, autonomy, self-esteem, responsibility and creativity, are already reflected in the profile of students at the end of compulsory education that the Ministry of Education presented on 11 February 2017 and which is developing in Portuguese public and private schools. Regarding how these skills are worked and developed in schools, we understand that this is something that is inserted into the pedagogical autonomy of schools and teachers. We do not see how we can introduce tools or extracurricular materials into the curriculum matrix. However, we do not oppose the fact that the proposed activity can be equated as another offering of schools in the extracurricular context, taking into account the reality of each and the autonomy regime. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that education does not run out of education and that it also belongs to families and society and that the subject matter must be framed in the project of each school and decide by it. The Government of the Socialist Party assumes and defends education as a privileged means of promoting social justice and equal opportunities, promoting quality education and success for all students throughout their school journey, enabling them to successfully complete their studies, within the specified time, by making them skilled and conscious citizens. Thus, the Government has implemented the Curriculum Autonomy and Flexibility Project in several schools to promote better learning. It is a challenge that schools have faced in a committed way, involving the entire educational community, valuing teachers as curriculum development agents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the signatories of the petition we are discussing. I wanted to begin by saying that this petition proposes the adoption of what is designated by personal planning in schools, having some discrepancies in the proposals we have to raise, because it is suggested that it is a discipline, then an extracurricular activity or then even a tool that can be used by teachers. We recognize that the objective of developing the trust, motivation, well-being and self-knowledge of students will be itself meritorious. However, it seems to us that there was insufficient scientific, technical, methodological and pedagogical basis for the proposal currently under discussion. We alert to the content proliferation framework that must be carefully weighted, as well as the necessary articulation of hours loads and the time of student stay in schools. We also warned about the lack of human resources in schools, especially psychologists, which could give a great response to some of the objectives that are set by petitioners themselves, this one that needs to be met. It is also urgent, we consider, a broader and more involved reflection on a possible curriculum reorganization, ensuring the existence of diversified curricula with quality, without disciplines or pathways considered to be first and second. I would also like to say that, apart from all this, it considers the CFP that there can be no sub-alternisation of the pedagogical component. We will not follow the adoption of any measures involving the outsourcing of teaching services or the privatization of educational components. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subscribers of this petition, which I greet on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, want the Personal Planning Project to be considered for inclusion in the curriculum matrix of teaching in Portugal and defend that personal planning is a tool for educators and educators. At the same time, however, they characterize it as an extracurricular activity. It must be said that we understand the goodness of the proposal regarding the development of the project and its final objective, but the truth is that, although called « tool», effectively constituting an extracurricular activity, it cannot be formally considered for inclusion in the curriculum matrix. Indeed, the guiding principles of the organization and management of curricula of basic and secondary education are integrated into the competences of the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for the Assembly of the Republic to monitor. On the other hand, curricular enrichment and personal and social training activities of students are within the framework of the competences of schools and school groups. Therefore, following what was appropriately stated by this parliamentary group at the hearing of the petitioners, we believe that the proposed project could actually be considered as another option within the offers at school level. However, in view of what we have just said, it seems to us that the possible adoption of the project can only take place in an extracurricular context, so it turns out that it will obviously be determining the criterion of schools which, if desired, may benefit from their autonomy regime. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u62	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the examination of this petition, we turn to the following items on the agenda. By understanding between the parliamentary groups, the fourth and fifth points of our agenda are aggregated, of them being the assessment of petitions Nos 224 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the creation of standards for the protection of unskilled investors ( ALBOA — Association of Lesados ), 298 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the identification of mis-selling practices as well as the condemnation of commercial proposals submitted by the New Bank, SA ( AMELP — Association of Portuguese-Lesados Immigration Movement ) and 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request a parliamentary investigation to be carried out culminating in a recommendation for compensation or reduction of damage to the damage caused by BES ( ABESD — Association of Defence of Banking Clients ) in conjunction with draft resolutions 1228 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government stop solving the problem of unqualified damage to BANIF and BES / GES ( PSD ), 1229 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the establishment of an arbitral, speedy and expeditious mechanism for the resolution of emerging disputes in the sale and marketing of financial products to investors not qualified by credit institutions subject to resolution measures ( CDS-PP ), 1230 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of unqualified investors of BANIF ( PS ) and 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the identification process of fraudulent practices in the marketing of financial products under BES / GES and BANIF ( BE ) processes. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Rubina Berardo's PSD Member for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, first of all, all petitioners — of the Banif-Santander Totta Injury Association, of the Association Movement of Emigrants Lesados and ABESD ( Association of Defence of Banking Clients ), which also has a strong mobilization in Venezuela and South Africa, being many of them present in the galleries to attend our debate on this matter. All these petitioners urge this House to act proactively, taking into account the harsh reality they have lived since the loss of their savings and before the inaction of this government in their files. Reports and documents have arrived that demonstrate how the trust of our immigrants in France, the United States of America, Venezuela and South Africa has been fully pre-empted. I have a statement from an emigrant who came to Parliament and said: « The bankers who visited us were treated as family». The Advocates' Order itself stressed that the universe of emigrant injuries was even worse off precisely because they were outside the national territory. Let us not forget that much of our citizens are elderly and have little financial literature to invest in high-risk financial products. Our emigrants always trusted the Portuguese banking system, which was an extension of their link to the motherland. They laid down here not only their trust, but also their savings, the result of a great deal of commitment and hard work, often under adverse conditions. It is the third year that this government is with the file of the damage of BANIF and the emigrants of BES/GES. They don't hide rhetorically in the past. In fact, they have decided the rules to the extent that some may be able to set up funds to recover their credits, leaving thousands of others outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u65	But for this government it seems that every day is the first day of their term of office. Every day it's like they just got here. This government and the parliamentary majority that supports it seem to be trapped in one of those film plots where the actor cannot get out of the events of one day. Wake up in the morning and all the events repeat themselves in the same way, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, he's the only one who knows about this. [[PSD applause.]] It is only in films that it is usually the protagonist who tries to change something to get out of this temporary period, while here he invests himself to keep this strange sensation of "admirable new world" government every day. Mrs. Members, the PSD has always criticised that the law governing credit recovery funds was a'made to measure' by only a few. This House cannot legislate without the principles of equality and equity in its front. These injured also await an answer, because they have been excluded from the law. In the temporal loop, the PS forgets the Prime Minister's own words, António Costa, when, at Funchal, he publicly said: "The injured are a set of honest people who trusted in a system that attacked them"? The system as a whole is failing for these fellow citizens, in large part of Madeira, the Azores and Portuguese communities of France, South Africa, Venezuela and the United States. We, PSD, are not trapped in time as the PS, and therefore we present a draft resolution that recommends to the Government, precisely, concrete action in this matter, protecting the public record and minimizing the losses of these unqualified injuries, through arbitrary mechanisms, either in which format and institution it is in, and meets with fairness and speed a perimeter of unqualified injuries to cover by possible commercial solutions; the scope for the damage of BANIF and for the emigrants who invested in BES/ GES products is studied. This is an important step and far ahead to correct a law whose applicability, since its first day, is unfair. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the many petitioners and injured people who hear us here today, when we discuss this issue again in plenary. in this regard, the CDS defends, as it has already defended in the past, a comprehensible, possible solution in which the different situations, because there are very different and very diverse situations, are treated according to criteria of justice and fairness. We are talking about customers of the banks that bought at their counters — in some cases even with account managers' travel to their workplaces or their own homes — risk products, often without knowing it. We are talking about unskilled investors, conservative customers who would not want to buy risk products and who, in some cases, were convinced that they were making long-term deposits when, in fact, what they were selling to them — I would even say, impinge — were very risky products. This has to be corrected, because whoever wants to take risks, who wants to buy risky products naturally should be able to do so, but who thinks that he is making a deposit has to be making one deposit and can't confuse the banks one thing and another. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u68	We had an excellent opportunity to solve this problem, when we discussed here the funds for credit recovery, to create a criterion based on justice and equity that would allow you to distinguish situations based on this very simple fact: whether people had been deceived by buying those products or not. We have lost this opportunity because the government has created a situation—by using the public record and funds that are from all Portuguese—in which for some people who are injured—and I know of the dramatic situations that many of the holders of this trade role lived—there was a solution, and a solution at the moment, and in which for others who are injured there is still no solution, perhaps there will not be and what will happen. Mrs. Members, this distinction, not on the basis that people have been deceived or not at the time of the acquisition of financial products, but on the basis of a government criterion, is that it is not possible. The distinction between people must be based on whether or not they have been deceived, based on criteria of justice and fairness and not, Mr President. Members, on the basis of the fact that they have protested more or less. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u69	That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable, as it is not acceptable for public money to be used to make these distinctions. The solution that the CDS now proposes is not a closed solution, because we have not closed the door and we will certainly enable all solutions that can solve the problem to these people, when, of course, it can be solved, but come to recommend to CMVM that you now do what you have two years to do and you have not done, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a good excuse to let it go on. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u70	Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate all the petitioners here and also those who are seeing us through the various television channels, because they have addressed the Assembly of the Republic with their petitions we are debating today. I would also like to take advantage of them as rapporteur for ALBOA's petition, because I followed this process in the Commission. The protection of unskilled investors is, in fact, a subject that has been of concern to us, which is why we have taken some initiatives to protect these people whose financial literature did not allow them to understand precisely what was being sold to them and which deserve everyone's respect. We also refer to practices that can be considered abusive and even to fraudulent sale, which have harmed and caused many injured. In fact, in recent years, we have seen processes that have cost a great deal to the Portuguese State vaults and that have led to the loss of savings by many investors. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody supports the lightening of blame and responsibilities nor does it « push with the belly», as they did in the past, to escape their responsibilities, whether present or from the past. No one can stand that anymore. So we are here, in a positive attitude, to try to contribute once again to solving the problems. It should be recalled that with the nationalization of BPN, with the resolutions of BES and BANIF and, consequently, with the committees of inquiry, weaknesses were evident in the regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial intermediation. The Socialist Party has been following with great concern the drama of the injured clients of those institutions, in particular the so-called "unqualified injuries", and therefore considered it necessary to present a set of legislative initiatives to regulate the practices that led to the loss of savings of such investors. In the hearings we have developed, we have found ourselves in complex situations, being constantly aware of the difficulties of the affected customers of BANIF, who are unskilled investors, many of them in a very difficult economic situation and which represent cases where, eventually, the sale of financial products configures mis-selling practices. For all this, and following the presentation of the Commission's report on the petition, the Socialist Party has decided to present the draft resolution that we are discussing today and which aims to pay particular attention to the affected customers of BANIF, for which, for the reasons already identified, there has not yet been a way of reducing their losses. Dear Members, we recommend to the Government that it pursue with the CMM (Commission on the Securities Market) in order to establish an extrajudicial mechanism to assess the verification of specific situations in which illegal practices may have occurred in the issuance or marketing of debt securities issued or marketed by BANIF and which may entail mis-selling practices. We also recommend that if the occurrence of these illegal practices is verified, the Government shall promote with the Banco de Portugal, CMMC and other associative structures of the injured possible solutions to mitigate the damage. I would like to remind you that in the past we have also adopted an initiative in this regard, both for the unqualified damage of GHG and for those of BANIF, which was voted in favour of the PS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to say that they are recognized by the injured associations, and by all, the ongoing follow-up efforts that the current Government of António Costa has made, in order to find solutions that safeguard the public interest, seeking, as quickly as possible, answers and solutions. I conclude by reaffirming that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to give all and the best attention so that it can find the best and feasible solutions and contribute to reducing the suffering caused to injured customers. We don't take responsibility, we have memory, but now and always, what matters to us is people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u72	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u73	Mr President, I begin by congratulating all the damage done by BES, GES and BANIF, especially the injured migrants, who brought us these petitions, many of them here today with great effort. Before we discuss these petitions, I would like to mention the context in which they appear to us. There is a premise, with which we all agree—all of us here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and I am sure that all the injured too — which is that the primary and primary responsibility for these injuries and for these situations belongs to shareholders and administrators, who managed these banks in accordance with their private interests, against the interests of their clients and against the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u75	That is why the Left Block defends, and defended in the past, that the effort to compensate these injured should be, and should have first of all gone to the financial system, in particular to Lone Star and Santander, to whom the good parts of BES and the good parts of BANIF were delivered practically at zero cost. This does not mean that the State has no responsibility in this process. There are very different situations between the various types of injuries, but we cannot ignore failures in regulation, in public intervention, in supervision, in the role of Banco de Portugal and, in addition, ultimately, it is always up to the State to protect its citizens, even more so, citizens who are in dramatic situations, from a personal point of view. That is why we recognise that it is up to the State to protect the citizens, which we see, and we have seen in the past, with good eye the effort that this government has made to find solutions. They may not always be the best solutions, we can not always agree with these solutions, but one thing is true: this government has done more in two years and the Assembly of the Republic has done more in these two years than the PSD Government has ever thought to do. We well remember what Mr Coelho said at the time. And what I said to the injured was this: "If you don't have money to go there,..." — to the court — "I will organize a public subscription to help them appeal to the court. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u76	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u77	That's what the PSD wanted to do to the injured BES at the time... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... and here, in the Assembly of the Republic, has already voted against measures to support the injured.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u78	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u79	And you've already proposed alternatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u80	In fact, Mrs. Rubina Berardo's bench voted against proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u81	But you've already proposed alternatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u82	...and against the intentions and wishes expressed here by Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u84	You've proposed alternatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u85	Therefore, we do not accept acts of hypocrisy of the PSD, which now comes to wash the face, when he has done nothing in the past to protect these injured, nor to find solutions for these injured. [[PSD protests.]] I'm sorry, they have no legitimacy to do so at this stage of the championship. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the solutions for the injured are very, very difficult, because there are very different situations and there are very complicated balances to find. We need to find a balance between the protection of the injured and the protection of the public record, we need to find a balance between situations—legally, including—very different between the injured. If there are cases of injured people who purchased from the BES counter products from an entity that had falsified accounts and in which, therefore, it is possible, at the beginning, to justify and prove fraudulent sales practices collectively, there are also cases of injury where bad sale is very difficult to prove, and therefore an analysis should be made on a case-by-case basis. There are still cases of injury in which the sale was made by a bank which is not Portuguese, which is not regulated in Portugal, which is not supervised in Portugal and in which the products were issued outside Portugal, but this does not mean that they are not entitled to protection, only means that, from a legal point of view, it is indeed different from other situations. These petitions call for three things: solutions to the problem, solution to identify mis-selling practices and the approval of legislation that protects customers. I would like to say that the Assembly of the Republic approved, on a proposal from the Left Block, a draft resolution of which was published on 16 January and which recommends that the Government find solutions for all the injured, in particular for migrants, and, including, free from the costs of these injuries. These recommendations have already been adopted and have already been published on day 16. The Left Block today presents a new project which aims to complement this resolution and which recommends that the Government, together with the CMVM, find an extrajudicial mechanism so that it can identify, on a case-by-case basis, mis-selling practices so that we can find a solution for the injured who still have no solution. Finally, we have come forward with several legislative initiatives to protect bank clients from these bad practices. We also recommended that financial products not guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund could not be marketed at the normal counters, which we found every day only in specialized counters. These proposals were plunged by the PSD and also by the CDS, when we presented them in the previous Parliament. in this Parliament, they are in a working group and I hope that we have — and I think we have the conditions to debate seriously and approve legislation that respects the situation of these injured people and that respects their will, expressed in these petitions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u86	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to congratulate the injured associations and the petitioners, who, once again, make the Assembly of the Republic decide on the problems generated by what is given by the pompous name of'mis-selling', but which we can actually call'single', so that people can understand us better. We are talking about large private shareholders who, defending their interests, mock customers who are unable to understand that they are being mocked at the time. Calling him mis-selling is just an unnecessary euphemism, because, in fact, these people were the target of a theft and a ridicule, and the state is constantly the target of this same ridicule and theft. Mrs. Members, as already mentioned, a few months ago this House approved a draft resolution which was published on 10 January and which determines that solutions should be found for all the injured, including migrants, either from GES or Banif. at this moment, we do not know what is being done to comply with this resolution is more worrying than we are discussing four new draft resolutions which, in our understanding, add very little to the one that was approved recently. It is true that the PSD now comes with a draft resolution. He must be trying to clean up his past and his responsibilities, because he actively contributed to creating the problem of the injured when he acted in the BES resolution and did not take care of the interests of the injured, saying that until they were injured and that those who had invested in commercial paper would be compensated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u89	... but then he refused to solve the problem several times. As such, you are now trying to clean up this past. Finally, it is late, but it will certainly come in time, because these people need to see their problem solved. Mrs. Members, if it had been done what the CFP claimed to be the solution, which was the integration of GES, its heritage and the heritage of its great shareholders, going in search of its wealth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u91	... of the proceeds of the theft that they have made to the depositors, to the Portuguese and to the bank, then, today we would have in the hands of the State sufficient instruments to fill the debts that have been generated and which today are in the hands of the injured, many of them in social situations that we have come to know and that are truly worrying, so they also deserve a word of solidarity for the situation in which they are. from the PCP, the solution is neither, nor has it ever been — and we have always made it clear — to put the state to pay for the crimes of the bankers. But we have also always said that we will do everything we can to find ways, with the slightest public effort, to make up for the debts that bankers have made with these customers. from the PCP, we reaffirm that only the public control of the bank is not enough, it is not enough, but it is certainly an absolutely necessary step to place the banks at the service of the country, at the service of the people, respecting their customers with the provision of a quality service, more honest than the one we have been checking, which is not difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u93	It's also a matter of concern, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, at the same time as everyone has now expressed these concerns with the injured and the ridiculous practices they call mis-selling, continue to happen in the Portuguese bank several examples of ridicule and mis-selling. We are confronted with a bank that has not managed to correct all these situations and the Assembly of the Republic and the supervisor continue to see private banks and private shareholders putting toxic products into the hands of customers who do not have enough financial literature to decode them. That is why, once again, the problem needs to be fixed up, and it is also necessary to put as a solution the increase in public control of the bank to ensure that the banks remain at the service of the people rather than at the service of the bankers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u94	I did not want to interrupt the speaker, in order not to harm him, but I have to appeal to the House to avoid different meetings on the subject we are discussing. I therefore ask the honourable Members. Members working together to create appropriate conditions in the Chamber, in particular for the hearing of speakers. I would also like to point out that, on the basis of the Bureau's understanding, as can be seen in the distribution of time, more than one minute was allocated to each parliamentary group. Initially each had 5 minutes, but, given that we did the aggregation of the times, six minutes should have been assigned to each parliamentary group. Make this correction, Mr. Members will use this additional time with the natural partimony of the time available. Mr Gonçalves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u95	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Miguel Tiago that my party has representation in Portuguese communities and that what I said in his separate part does not honor his party or honor his bench. My party has representation in the Portuguese communities and is proud of having. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I apologize for this small part at the beginning of my speech, but, of course, I would like to refer to the presence here of the petitioners, particularly of the petition relating to the emigrants — emigrants, yes, but Portuguese before they are emigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u96	All right! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u97	It is true that this petition has had a merit, the merit of allowing the debate, discussion and visibility of a great injustice that has been done to many Portuguese living abroad, both in the Assembly of the Republic and in Portugal. It also allowed this House to seek solutions and ways for justice to be done and for its demands to be met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u98	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u99	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are talking about representatives of a universe of 5 million people, of a universe that has gone, is and will be important to Portugal economically through their investments and their savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u101	Where was he in 2014?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u102	And the relationship of these Portuguese to Portugal has always been a relationship of trust and trust has been broken, that is what is at stake. That is why the challenge of all is to regain this trust so that in the future our communities will believe in their institutions, believe in the banking system and, above all, believe in our country. The question of the injured emigrants of BES demonstrates something fundamental: Portuguese abroad, through this legislative initiative, demonstrate that, whenever they have to defend their causes, they can participate in civic and political life. This is a great example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u104	... the great example of how Portuguese communities use Portuguese legislation to defend themselves, because in Portugal some often treat us as emigrants and some parties even criticize that my party has representatives in Portuguese communities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u105	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Pisco now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all the petitioners who have signed these petitions so as to give voice to a just cause, which is the requirement of the injured emigrants of the Banco Espírito Santo, who have seen their life turned from the bird, so unfair and dramatic, in countries in Europe, outside Europe, in the Azores and Madeira. in this context, I would particularly like to highlight the struggle of AMELP which, with courage and determination, never gave up blackmail, nor did it give up demanding what was right — its reason, which is the reason for all the injured migrants, ended up taking revenge, at least for the injured group in France, Luxembourg, Germany and other European countries. But it deserves particular reference to the solution already found for subscribers of various products, with already guaranteed deposits of 75 % of the value of the accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u108	... and the remainder to be negotiated, whether or not they have signed contracts with the New Bank after 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u110	However, as for the other cases, there is still a way to go. But it is also proven, particularly with the interventions of Mrs Rubina Berardo and Carlos Gonçalves, that the PSD does not lack tin or shame. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.]] Unlike the previous Prime Minister, Passos Coelho, who left the migrants to their fate, even stating on 9 April 2015 that the Government refrained from intervening in this debate because it was not its competence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u111	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u112	... the current Prime Minister, António Costa, has always expressed solidarity with the need to find a solution, for what he heard the representatives of AMELP and accompanied this entire process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u113	I now give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u114	Mr President, first of all, with regard to the petitioners, because it is because of their petitions and because of them that we are here today, I think it is much more useful, rather than being exchanging accusations in a rather exalted tone, that we find a solution, until, in fact, for some of the injured there is already a solution and they have already seen their problems solved and others have been later. And it is for those who the government has left behind and who felt that they are less important that we are here trying to find a solution. So I understand our different opinions, but I think that the relevant here today is to arrive at a solution, and I think that this path is open. But the important thing is, then, that the solution that we will come to today, here in the plenary, becomes a real solution and not just a recommendation that leaves us, everyone, with the clear consciences and leave the problem to whom, in fact, has it. That is why we, CDS, defend the arbitral committees, because it seems to us a way of distinguishing between situations that may deserve everyone's agreement. Secondly, I would like to leave an alert here: several projects from various parties on measures to be taken on financial products sold to banks' counters are pending in Parliament as already mentioned. These projects have been waiting for many months for the Government's legislative initiative, through a bill, that the PS always says it is in the near future. We have news of financial products that should not be traded to the bank counters. It's happening, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is better to prevent than to remedy, and therefore this legislative initiative is urgently needed. For pending projects, the CDS will require the Committee on Budgets to be immediately discussed in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u116	The government that is coming, and is coming quickly, is losing no more time, and it is enough — I repeat, it is enough — that we are remedied instead of preventing it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u117	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u118	Mr President, we all have a past, we have all taken positions and we have to be responsible for them, and Mr Carlos Gonçalves has to be responsible for his positions and for his party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u119	Totally, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u120	Mr. Deputie has to tell us where he was in 2014, where he was in 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u121	Where the honourable Member has not been!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u122	... where he was up to the elections, where he was in all the demonstrations of all the injured up to the elections, where he was when we voted here to help some injured, where he was when the Bloc presented proposals in the specialty to protect the injured migrants and his party voted against, where was he when we presented proposals to protect bank clients and his party voted against? Oh, my God! Where have you been so far?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u123	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u124	That is the answer that you will have to give to this House and, more than anything else, to the injured who say they want to protect. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, the Left Block will vote in favour of all the resolutions and we will do everything we can to ensure that there is a solution for the injured and we agree and commit ourselves to the proposal to discuss already in the specialty the projects that are in the working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u125	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u126	The injured know that it is true, because our past says that this has always been our position, and therefore that is the truth, the defense of the interests of these injured. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u127	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Gonçalves, the more inflamed are his interventions, the greater is the weight in consciousness. [[PCP laughter.]] And, in this case, there is much to see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u129	We're all here, sir! After your part, I was obliged!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u130	It is very much in the sight of everyone who the PSD has used its parliamentary representation of migrants, that it has boasted here, precisely to harm migrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u132	at the same time, the CFP used all the Members who, regardless of having not a member elected by the circles of emigration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u133	Don't tell me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u134	...to defend the interests of migrants. [[PCP applause.]] I would remind you, Mr Carlos Gonçalves, that your parliamentary group and those who say they represent migrants, when they voted against the integration of a heritage of the Holy Spirit Group to safeguard the ridicule that was made with the injured, did not defend the migrants. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u135	Let's defend the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u136	When he voted against the constitution of a technical unit to go after the money trail of those who stole BES and GES, he voted against the rights and interests of migrants. When he voted against the Government's proposal and the BE's proposal for an extension of an immigrant credit recovery fund, he voted against the interests of immigrants. So, Mr. Deputy, it's that weight in consciousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u137	I don't have one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u138	... that makes you talk to this exaltation to see if you hide the crap that you've been doing against the migrants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u139	Assholes are Mr. Deputies! Be polite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u140	...weaving praise and praise to the Portuguese emigrant community, which, of course, has never been involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u141	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u142	I should like to conclude by saying that a very few days ago we adopted a resolution on this very subject. What we need to take into account is what we need to do to ensure that these resolutions are complied with, because, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, good recommendations are the full government, and what matters is what it does with them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u143	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate on petitions Nos 224, 298 and 341 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 1228, 1229, 1230 and 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We move on to the next item on our agenda, which concerns 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018. Mr Pedro Pinto spoke as President of the House's Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic deals mainly with subsidies to be paid to the lists of citizens and political parties that have competed for the last elections. As you know, the 2017 Budget provided for a payment in 2018 for all competitors to these elections worth EUR 60 million. By decision of this Parliament, it was decided to reduce the value of the support to be given in the last municipal elections by EUR 21 million. Therefore, I would like to point out that it went from EUR 60 million to the amount that was normally paid in terms of subsidies for the actual elections to EUR 38 million, with a reduction of around EUR 21 million. As you know, the budget of the Assembly of the Republic is drawn up before the State budget and therefore the Assembly of the Republic has an obligation to submit a budget, taking into account the law in force. By the law in force still had 60 million, but with this reduction that was approved by us, this payment went to 38 million. How is this payment processed? This payment takes place - as follows: 50 % in the first two months following the election, and therefore 50 % of this amount was paid - of these 38 million have been paid just over EUR 19 million - and this year the payment of more than 18 million has been transferred to 2018. It is this payment, which comes from behind, which is part of this budgetary amendment, which is presented to Parliament as a supplementary budget. I would also like to say that this decision was adopted in the Governing Council with the favourable votes of the PS, the PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens, i.e. by all the parties that are part of the Governing Council. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u145	Mrs. Members, having concluded this item on the agenda, I am going to set out the diplomas contained in the following points, to which no time has been allocated. They are: draft resolution No 1241 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — It adopts its opinion on the proposal for a Council Decision adopting provisions amending the act on the election of the members of the European Parliament by universal suffrage ( Committee on European Affairs), which is therefore a matter under this Commission ; the drafts of lein. 734 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests ( PS ) and 735 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities representing interests ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1239 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic ( PS ). Like the previous initiatives in this area, I believe that, at the time of the vote, a request will be submitted by the proponents for a discharge, without a vote, to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which deals with these matters, and so on in due course; motions for resolutions 59/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde on the Joint Monitoring of Maritime Spaces under the Sovereignty or Jurisdiction of the Republic of Cape Verde, signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2014, and 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Permanent Arbitration Tribunal, signed in Lisbon, on 16 June 2017 ; draft resolution No 1242 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Designation of the sole prosecutor of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) ( PSD and PS ) ; and draft deliberation No 17 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Commemorations of the V Centenary of the Circum-Navigation commanded by the Portuguese browser Fernão de Magalhães [ makes the third amendment to Deliberation No 2 - PL / 2016 of 29 January ( Set the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in XIII Legislation ) ) ( President of the AR ). We are now going to start the voting period. I would ask the services to prepare the electronic system for verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u146	Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 209 presences, to which the representatives of Heloísa Apolónia, the Greens, Jerónimo de Sousa, the PCP, Hortense Martins, the PS, and Ángela Guerra, the PSD, making 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u147	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u148	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u149	Mr President, I would just like to say that there are clearly 19 Members of the Left Block in the Chamber, even though there are only 18 registered Members and we cannot identify who did not sign up electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u150	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Search for you, Member of Parliament! Mrs. Members, we begin by voting No 467 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fire in the Cultural, Recreation and Humanitarian Association of Vila Nova da Rainha, in Tondela presented by the President of RA and signed by PS and PSD Members. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u151	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Members of the Assembly of the Republic followed the tragic consequences of the fire that took place last Saturday night, at the Cultural, Recreational and Humanitarian Association of Vila Nova da Rainha, in Tondela. Nine people died and 37 were injured, victims of the deflagration when more than 60 people were at the headquarters of the Association participating in a Swedish tournament. at a time when the causes of the tragedy and the security conditions of the building are still resolved, it is to highlight the readiness of emergency services and the solidarity expressed by various local and national authorities. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the success of the event, transmitting all its solidarity to the Tondela institutions, families and friends of the victims."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u152	We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 467/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 468/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the passing of Madalena Iglesias presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members. I would like to ask Secretary Idália to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u153	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « It is with sadness that Members of the Assembly of the Republic sign the death of Madalena Iglesias. Born in Lisbon, 1939, and with studies at the School of Canto, early embraced the musical career. He had not yet reached the age of 20 and was already working on television and on the National Emissora. It was also early that he left the musical career on a full-time basis. Family life took her to Venezuela, where she only sporadically acted. Madalena Iglesias was undoubtedly one of the great names of the 60's Portuguese song and a symbol of popular culture. He represented Portugal in numerous festivals, continuing in collective memory his victory at the 1966 RTP Song Festival, with Him and Ela, of Carlos Canelhas. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret to the family and friends of Madelena Iglesias."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u154	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 468 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to vote No 466/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations for the 700 years of the Portuguese Navy ( Members of the National Defence Commission ). I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u155	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « In 1317 King D. Dinis granted in Santarém, through a royal diploma, the title of Admiral of the kingdom of Portugal to the genoese Manuel Pessanha. It would not only be an admiral, it would be the Commander of the naval forces with the responsibility of giving body to the admiral, granting him the means and jurisdiction over the issues of the sea. This document, concluded 700 years ago, has been considered the birth certificate of the Portuguese Navy. D. Dinis, consolidated the land borders, recognized the great fragility of the kingdom in the maritime borders and, by entrusting Manuel Pessanha with the mission to defend the ports and ships on the high seas, ensured the defence of the coast and the security of trade routes between the Mediterranean and the North Atlantic and strengthened the visibility of the enemies. But it is also imperative to recognize the strategic vision that raised Portugal's naval power and opened the way for the sea and for the future, as a concrete expression of national designs. From then on, all the facts that shaped Portugal as a nation have as the main actor or fundamental intervener the Portuguese Navy. in a time of constant global changes, the Navy maintains a perennial reference in the defence of the interests of Portugal, but at the same time an example of adaptation and openness to the new approach of the oceans, national security, the maintenance of peace and humanitarian actions. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes in this way the commemoration of the 700 years of the Portuguese Navy, highlighting its historic and decisive role in the defence of the country and in the configuration of the nation that Portugal is today, not forgetting the men and women who, without any doubt, have made possible the realization of such designs over the last seven centuries".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u156	Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on vote No 466 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1038 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Council of Maction in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on a request submitted by the PSD for discharge to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote for the five-day period of draft resolution No 1041 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Oleiros, Vila Velha de Rhodão, Castelo Branco and Proença-a-Nova in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1043 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Gavião and Nisa in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1227 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of forest management measures to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1234 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the application of the contents of Ordinance No 321/2017 of 9 October to the other municipalities with significant areas burned in 2017 ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the arrangements applicable to the out-of-court collection of overdue claims and to undertakings engaged in such activity ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u157	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u158	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u159	Mr President, at the beginning of the morning we made a request to the Bureau, requesting that this initiative be dropped to the Committee on Labour and Social Security without a vote for a period of 60 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u160	Therefore, Mr President, we shall vote on the request submitted by BE, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote for the 60-day period of Bill No 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on Bill No 733 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime for specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ) is to be followed. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1232 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, open a speciality invitation to tender for all newly trained doctors, ensuring good conditions for training and the increase in the number of vacancies, that, under Decree-Law No 86/2015 of 21 May, ensure that training is awarded in all establishments meeting the requirements necessary for this purpose, in accordance with the proposal of the Medical Order, irrespective of the sector to which they belong, and that under Decree-Law No 86/2015 of 21 May, open vacancies for medical detention in all establishments with training qualifications ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u161	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u162	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u163	Mr President, if I may, it is to correct the vote of the Left Block on draft resolution No 1227 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the CDS-PP. It does not change the final outcome of the vote, but we want to correct our vote for abstention rather than vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The result of the vote is not altered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1237 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to ensure specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u166	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u167	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Ivan Gonçalves and Mr Hugo Carvalho, we will present a statement of vote on the motion for a resolution from the Left Block, which we have just done and on the two previous votes immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 1236 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Measures to regulate schedules, combat wear and improve the working conditions of teachers ( BE) for which the PCP requested the partition — it was already missing here! — in two blocks: first, points 1 and 2 and then the rest. Let us vote on points 1 and 2. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes against BE and PAN.]] Let us now vote on points 3 to 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u169	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u170	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u171	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on draft resolution No 1236 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u172	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u173	I call on you, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u174	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u175	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u176	Will the CDS present a declaration of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u177	No, Mr. President. We shall present a statement of vote on this vote on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u178	Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u179	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u180	Be registered. You have the floor, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u181	Mr President, it is to inform us that we are going to deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u182	All these indications are recorded. Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 993 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Proposals for solutions to the problems of wood production ( CFP ). The Left Block calls for the vote, first of all, of points 1 and 4 and then of the rest. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on points 1 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on points 2, 3 and 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] With regard to draft resolution No 994 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass ( CFP ), the Left Block requests that points 3 and 4 be voted on first and then the remaining points. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on points 3 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 2 and 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PS and the BE and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1231 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme to promote the use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PS and the PCP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1006 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Programme for monitoring and minimizing wild fauna in the National Road Network ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1238/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an impact assessment of animal husbandry in the ecosystem and adopts preventive measures in accordance with the results ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1233 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures for monitoring and mitigating the road running of animals ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u184	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u185	Mr President, it is to announce that, on behalf of the CDS bench, we will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following is draft resolution No 1228/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government stop solving the problem of unqualified damage to BANIF and BES / GES ( PSD ). The PS calls for the vote on points 1 and 2. So we started by voting on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1229 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the establishment of an arbitral, speedy and expeditious mechanism for the resolution of emerging disputes in the sale and marketing of financial products to investors not qualified by credit institutions subject to resolution measures ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1230 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of unqualified investors of BANIF ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the identification process of fraudulent practices in the marketing of financial products under BES / GES and BANIF ( BE ) processes. The initial text was replaced at the author's request. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u188	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u189	Mr President, with regard to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 1230 and 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD Members elected by the electoral circles of Madeira and the Azores shall deliver a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1241 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the opinion on the proposal for a Council decision adopting provisions amending the act on the election of members of the European Parliament by universal suffrage ( Committee on European Affairs). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the PSD Deputy Regina Bastos, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u191	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u192	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u193	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on behalf of the CDS-PP parliamentary board.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u194	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Marques, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u195	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on behalf of the PSD parliamentary board on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u196	Be registered. The vote on the application, submitted by the PS, was followed by a request for discharge to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, without a vote on the deadline for its operation of the projects of lein.o 734 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests ( PS ) and 735 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities representing interests ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1239 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 59/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde on the Joint Monitoring of Maritime Spaces under the Sovereignty or Jurisdiction of the Republic of Cape Verde, signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] In the overall vote, motion for a resolution No 60/ XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Permanent Arbitration Court, signed in Lisbon on 16 June 2017. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 354 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — proposes the extension of the daycare system and child support equipment ( CFP ). The CDS-PP called for the empowerment of the vote on point 4. Let us then vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1 to 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] The following is draft resolution No 899 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends social protection to children in the context of combating child poverty ( BE ). The PSD has called for the empowerment of the vote on point 1, and we are therefore voting on it. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We are now voting on points 2 to 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u198	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u199	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u200	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 861 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary actions to ensure that the Monte Real Air Base is adapted to the civil flight airport ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u201	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u202	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u203	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u204	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1064 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give absolute priority to the conclusion of the IC6 as well as to the construction of the IC7 and IC37 ( CDS-PP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Elza Pais, Hortense Martins, João Gouveia, João Marques, Pedro Coimbra and Santinho Pacheco and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u207	Mr President, it is to announce that I intend to make an oral vote at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u208	Mr President, the appropriate time will be at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u209	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u210	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u211	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u214	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u215	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr. João Marques and I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u216	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u217	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u218	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I and Mr. Mr Elza Pais and Mr João Gouveia, in writing, will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u219	All right. Be registered. The vote on draft resolution No 1242/ XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Designation of the Single Prosecutor of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) ( PSD and PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and PS and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 17 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Commemorations of the V Centenary of the Circum-Navigation commanded by the Portuguese browser Fernão de Magalhães [ makes the third amendment to Deliberation No 2 - PL / 2016 of 29 January ( Set the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in XIII Legislation ) ) ( President of the AR ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the proposed Law No 98 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the arrangements for the allocation of public water securities in relation to existing untitled situations. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u221	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u222	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u223	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Since there are no objections, we shall vote, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, concerning the projects of lein. 657 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PSD ) and 696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial limits of the parish of Vila das Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before Mr Santinho Pacheco makes a statement of vote, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, who will report on two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u224	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 3 of the Local Criminal Court of Guimarães of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No 1110 / 14.2TAGMR, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, issued an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Soares ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u225	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u226	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 8 of the Judicial Judge of the District of Lisbon of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No. 14 570 / 16.8T8LSB, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross to intervene within the framework of the said car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For a declaration of vote on draft resolution No 1064 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I voted in favour of draft resolution No 1064 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), submitted by the CDS, which recommends to the Government absolute priority in the conclusion of the CI6 and in the construction of the CI7 and IC37, for consistency with the thinking and feeling of the populations of the Guard District, of the Star Serra rope, in particular because it is more than fair. We are the only region in the country where there is not 1 m of IP or CI, much less a motorway, planned for 30 years on the National Road Plan. But I cannot help but denounce the opportunism and demagogy of the CDS which in four years in the government has not even been concerned about environmental impact studies or implementation projects for these works. Finally, the lightness as this draft resolution is justified shows well its populist goal of pleasing at all costs, saying what you like to hear. Notice: about the IC7, both say in the text that binds Oliveira of the Hospital to Furnaces de Algodres ( A25 ), as they say that it will connect Seia, Gouveia to Celorico da Beira ( A25 ). Let's decide! Fornos from Algodres to Celorico da Beira are more than 20 km. A little rigor hadn't gone wrong to them! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-19.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 24 January, at 3 p.m., on the agenda of two points: in the first, there will be political statements and in the second, petition No 315 / XIII ( 2 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — They request the extension of the deadline for delivering the IRC Model 22 declaration ( Maria Filomena Martins de Oliveira Grimalde Simões, and others ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 41 minutes.]]
