ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries, please. on the agenda of today's sitting we have the appeal to the Government No 22 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — On defense of the National Health Service (The Greens). To open the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health : In view of what we have been watching at the level of the National Health Service ( SNS ) and of the increasing difficulties with regard to access to health care by the Portuguese, the appeal to the Government that the Greens have scheduled for today is more than justified and the recognition of its opportunity seems to us to be consensual. In fact, the news happens and the cases accumulate at a truly worrying pace. The situation in which many of the health services of the SNS (National Health Service) are found is, unfortunately, very little recommended. It is not, moreover, advisable because many of these services are in a situation that even threatens to break down. We well know that the problem is not today, and we well know that the situation that we are now living is the result of structural insufficiency. in fact, if today the lack of response of the National Health Service is visible, it is also visible that it is a direct consequence of political options of several governments that over the decades have consolidated and raised the underfinancing in the National Health Service to the condition of established rule. in this context, it is important to remember the closure of health services throughout the country, the reduction of beds and health professionals and the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals who, having come from behind, have reached all limits with the previous government. And if it is true that the current government is beginning to delay taking measures to give effective answers to all of these health problems today, it is also true that the policies of the former Government have had an absolutely central role in the worsening of health problems, having contributed greatly to today's rupture situation and the situation in which we are, as far as health professionals are concerned. It is recalled in this regard that by the hand of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, health lost more than 7000 professionals, which came naturally to exacerbate the response capacity in both the health centres and hospitals of the SNS. And even though it costs some benches, the truth is that some steps have already been taken to counter these policies that have left health more fragile than ever. Today, we have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in several areas. But that's not enough. We have more professionals is true, but it is also true that they are still insufficient. As the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association very well notes : « Despite the increase in SNS effectiveness, it was not possible to complete the effective reduction in the availability of human resources — estimated at around 12 % — which is leading to an overload on available professionals and to the use of extraordinary services and hours ». And now we say: the lack of human resources in the field of health is seriously challenging the provision of health care and further weakening the ability to respond to the needs of Portuguese by the National Health Service. But more: this visible worsening of the lack of human resources is still enhancing serious risks to the physical and mental health of health professionals themselves, who are faced with truly hallucinating work rhythms and the need to resort excessively to extraordinary hours, so often without any compensation. In addition, it is still necessary to bear in mind the sharp degradation of workers' rights to which the Government delays in giving the appropriate response. We speak of subjects such as the destruction of the public bond or the degradation of professional careers of health workers. This is no longer to refer to the abuse of contractual precariousness, which is still a file made of the most varied forms, such as the use of green receipts, the recruitment on time, the termination of contracts, and out there. These are situations that, in addition to dragging themselves into time and dragging falsehoods in labor relations, are still grossly illegal, a matter on which the State should, in fact, set the example. For this reason, the Greens consider that strengthening the hiring of health professionals, as well as valuing the professional and remuneration of these professionals are essential for the survival of the SNS itself with the standard that Portuguese deserve and the one they are entitled to. The National Health Service represents a lot for Portuguese. It is too important to continue on this path of fragility. If, through the SNS, we can substantially improve health indicators in Portugal, if we can improve the health and quality of life of Portuguese, its strengthening must be at the top of political priorities. But the government has not given any sign of this priority, as, moreover, shows how it planned the entry into force of 35 hours a week. This is a situation that requires immediate responses on the grounds that the status of waiting lists, the postponement of surgery or even the likelihood of serious errors in the treatment of patients is aggravated. In fact, it seems that only the government did not anticipate the situation in hospitals today, and it was not for lack of warning! Minister, the passage to 35 hours was not a flu that suddenly appeared. We are talking about a measure that was planned since 2017. however, the government only announced the hiring of more than 2000 professionals one or two weeks before the entry into force of this measure. In other words, the announcement of this contract takes place within a few days of the 35 hours of entry into force and within a period which normally requires more delicate human resources management because it is exactly the holiday period. at least, there was lack of planning, or, if there was, it was manifestly inadequate and absolutely insufficient. And although the Minister of Health had assured, in mid-June, that the Ministry's plan would be in a position to be implemented, what is true is that the regime has entered into force and many public health institutions continue to maintain 40 hours a week, as if, between 30 June and 1 July, nothing had happened. And the worst thing is that no indication has been given to the workers that these five hours more would be paid as extraordinary work. Now, this is absolutely incomprehensible. And it is incomprehensible, of course, because the reduction of working time will have to carry with it positive reflections in health services, patients and health professionals. This is one of the challenges the Greens want to launch to Mr. Minister of Health, in this appeal: to know how the government will ensure that the passage to 35 hours a week will have a positive impact on health services, patients and health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u4	That's what it's worth knowing today. Without attempting to devalue, on the contrary, the recruitment of the 2000 professionals scheduled for this month, we will always have to say that, in addition to late — too late — indeed — this measure is absolutely insufficient to meet the needs. in fact, about 6000 health professionals are missing for the full functioning of services. The government had stated that it was now hiring 2000 and that by September or October it would hire more professionals. It happens that yesterday in the Health Committee, Mr Minister came to tell us that there would probably not be any conditions for hiring the necessary professionals. Now, confirming this retreat from the Government means that they will continue to be concerned with the quality of the services provided, waiting lists, surgery and recourse to extraordinary hours, often without being paid. What we think, Minister, is that there is no IP3 to justify this retreat from the Government and, therefore, we would like to have here today the final version of the hiring of health professionals necessary for the full functioning of the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the government is even determined to strengthen the SNS and to restore Portuguese access to health care, it is therefore necessary to develop mechanisms that put people in the center of the system and manage to reduce inequalities in access to health. It is necessary to ensure the financial resources necessary for its full functioning and to break the sub-financing cycle—which had its maximum exponent during the governance of the PSD and CDS-PP—that the SNS has been suffering and has been dramatically reflected not only at the level of technical means but also at the level of health professionals. It will then have to promote users' access to health care, and above all ensure that Portuguese people do not stop accessing them for economic reasons. In this respect, it is of particular relevance to the need to permanently end the moderate rates, which, moreover, are not moderate, but also to pay for the non-emergency transport of patients, subjects on which the Greens have already presented legislative initiatives. In fact, in this Parliament, positive steps have already been taken, both at the level of moderate rates...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u7	Mr President, you have already exceeded the time you had for the initial intervention. From now on, the time to use will be cut from the debate period.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u8	Of course, Mr. President. As I said in this Parliament, positive steps have already been taken both at the level of moderate rates and at the level of non-emergency transport of patients. But it is necessary to go further, because despite these advances, studies indicate that there are still private Portuguese people who have access to health care for economic reasons. But strengthening the SNS also means putting a brake on the intolerable promiscuity that is installed between the public sector and the private sector of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u10	This is a reality that has gradually been gaining volume and size and which points to a truly frightening trend, where health is less and less a right and more and more a business. It is here that, in our view, is one of the main reasons for the current situation of the SNS and that it is important to definitely revert. We refer to the various mechanisms used to fatten the private market with health interests and, of course, public-private partnerships ( PPP), but not only. The State cannot continue to transfer its responsibilities to the private, much less with regard to the provision of health care. The provision of health care must belong to the State, not only because it is the only way to be able to provide quality health care to users, but also because only in this way can they guarantee the working rights of their professionals. Moreover, public-private partnerships in the field of health do not add anything in terms of the quality of service delivery and those who claim it are not only The Greens, but also the Health Regulatory Entity itself, as, moreover, is public. For this reason, we did not, nor could we follow, the government in the extension of the PPPs of Cascais, of Loures, of Vila Franca de Xira, of Braga, and out there. We believe that everything was to be earned by the reversal of these PPPs, until, by refusing to extend them, there would be no costs for the State in terms of compensation. Avoiding future PPPs would avoid the spending of millions and millions of euros that are so lacking in the National Health Service. Let's go to the numbers : in 2017, the State paid nothing less than EUR 3, EUR 5 billion between PPPs, conventional arrangements and service contracts transferred to private groups. Only in PPP, it is expected that in 2018, the State spends EUR 471 million, corresponding to about 6 % of the SNS Budget. It is no wonder that, in recent years, private health units have grown and there has been a marked transfer of services and health units to private management. It is no wonder that, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics, in our country, there are today more private hospitals than public hospitals. It is not surprising that the financial results of the main health groups have in 2017 known a true record of invoicing, with more consultations and surgeries, greater number of beds and a marked growth of services carried out by convention, at the request of the SNS. Finally, it is no wonder that only the two largest private health groups could count on EUR 1 billion in 2017 in operating income distributed as follows : EUR 637 million for Mello Saúde and EUR 484 million for Health Light. However, there seems to be doubts about the existence of funds to hire the necessary health professionals. However, ophthalmology consultations in the SNS know an average waiting time of 180 days per consultation, and there are hospitals where the waiting time is over 2 years. In the meantime, the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro is nine months away from paying small ambulance companies that provide services to this hospital. However, there are radiology services that end at night because of the lack of health technicians and hospitals where things as simple as compresses are missing. However, there are thousands and thousands of Portuguese without a doctor and a family nurse. You have to think. In fact, it's a lot to think about! Open... In any case, we have no doubt that the health situation is better, and at all levels, when compared with the situation left by the previous government. But the comparison cannot be made with the policies of the previous government, and it cannot because the PSD/CDS-PP government of health only had a petty accounting notion, unable to see in a patient anything more than a source of expenditure and waste. [[PSD protests.]] A government that had only a short and familiar business vision because it was unable to see in a hospital more than a book of « must and there ». [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The comparison must be made with what the Portuguese have the right to health and there is still much to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u12	I conclude by reaffirming the challenge I presented to the Minister of Health at the beginning of this appeal: how will the Government ensure that the transition to 35 hours a week will have a positive impact on health services, patients and health professionals? This was the purpose of reducing working time and the balance sheet of its implementation was an important factor in the decision of the Greens to schedule this call to the Government for today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u13	Mr President, the overrun of intervention time at this stage of opening is discounted at the stage of debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most recent data published by INE, combined with data from the 2017 Social Report and the Health Care Access Report, confirm that today we have more access, more resources and more public funding. The recently published portrait of health in Portugal also indicates that in view of the socio-demographic context and the progress of technological innovation, the Portuguese health system, in general, and the SNS in particular, are responding with quality. Several international studies such as Euro Health Consumer or the OECD Health at Glace report have recognized the work done so far. To mention the recent statement by the Director-General of WHO, who, visiting our country last June, said that Portugal has one of the few good health systems in the world. We are faced with a shift in correcting the effects of governance in the period of external intervention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, access to health services is now easier. We guarantee a global reduction in the value of moderate rates, substantially reduce the burden on non-emergency transport of patients and introduce free transport for palliative care patients. Unforgettable fact: in 2016 and 2017, never so many Portuguese had resorted to the National Health Service. The possibilities of choice for patients were extended with the introduction of the principle of free access and free movement in the SNS. New features and more valences were assigned to the new contact center of the National Health Service, which does not stop beating records in terms of access. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, citizens have, in fact, more access to medicines, with the greatest approval of innovative medicines at all times. Access to cancer treatments in SNS hospitals is increasing, with more treatments, more access to therapeutic innovation and, despite this increased access, public drug spending for the first time reaches the value of 1, 15 % of GDP, which was not even achieved during the troika. It is also worth mentioning the INE satellite account and reflecting on the relevant fact that for the first time, public funding and expenditure are growing more than private financing and expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also worth noting that the acceleration of the growth of direct expenditure of families in 2017 was reduced by 60 %. The improvement of access has allowed Portuguese to continue to see in the National Health Service a strong instrument of social cohesion, in a country still unfortunately marked by many inequalities. A universal SNS, general and trendily free, as advocated by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We therefore pay due tribute here to António Arnaut, its founder, by a government that shares its values and ideals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been implementing the reform of primary health care. Health centres have been endowed with greater resolution, with new professions and new services. Today we have ensured the consultation of smoking cessation in all the ACES ( Central Administration of the Health System, IP ) ; more than five dozen primary health care units already carry out oral health consultations, being expected to extend to the end of the Legislature, and are currently under project, in launching or under construction, about 113 new health centers throughout the country. in recent years a family doctor was assigned to more than half a million Portuguese, which currently corresponds to a percentage that is about 94% of the total coverage. This improvement in the primary health care provision structure resulted in 31 million consultations, according to the 2017 Access to Health Care Report. in hospital health care we approved, a few days ago, the decree-law that creates the legal regime of clinical academic centers, thus creating conditions for the development in an integrated way of the care activities of teaching and clinical research and translation and the relaunch of university hospitals. This is a unique opportunity to value education and research, capturing national and international investment. Even today, this afternoon, will consist of the writing of the Clinical Research and Biomedical Innovation Agency and, recently, we signed a protocol for the installation in Portugal of one of the largest European centers for performing phase 1 clinical trials at the Hospital de Santa Maria. The public competition for the construction of the Sixal hospital was launched — in fact, I was in Sixal last Friday; the public contest for the construction of the Sixal hospital is taking place at the Eastern Lisbon hospital; within days the public contest will be launched for the construction of the Sintra hospital and the Évora hospital will be launching the public contest until the end of the year. We are carrying out the greatest statistical capital reinforcement ever in EPE hospitals: EUR 500 million has already been implemented and EUR 500 million is now being realized. In the past 40 years, there has never been such a great reinforcement of the capital structure of hospitals, this after an additional transfer injection was made in the last year of some EUR 400 million. In terms of care results in hospitals there was an increase in the activity programmed at the level of consultations and surgeries in 2017. for the first time, continuous integrated mental health care was constituted and there is a strong bet on the implementation of the national palliative care network. The number of beds contracted in boarding units in the national integrated continuous care network amounted to 8549 beds. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first two years of the Legislature were focused on strengthening and valuing human capital, with the highest ever hiring of professionals for the SNS since its existence — about 8000. We significantly reversed the trend of emigration of qualified professionals abroad and careers were created that were to be performed and regulated for more than 18 years, such as the careers of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, the special career of pre-hospital emergency technician and the hospital pharmaceutical career. We have implemented other important measures for health professionals, which, of course, include remuneration replacement, updating the value of additional work and quality hours and the important review of the PNT (normal working time) of 35 hours. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has defined as one of its priority axes of action the promotion of public health, giving special emphasis to the areas of healthy food, the fight against smoking and physical activity. Already in 2018, WHO congratulated Portugal on these initiatives, which led it to choose our country for the launch of the World Action Plan for the Promotion of Physical Activity 2018 - 2030. We increased the coverage rate of the population with the new National Vaccination Program. Today we have presented a historic success for the Portuguese health system, with the latest results of meeting the United Nations targets in the area of combating HIV/AIDS by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] for the first time, Portugal has reached two of the three targets, equating us in Europe with countries such as Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom. in hepatitis C we have the largest number of treatments in use and about 10,000 patients are already cured. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have always sought broad consensus in the health sector. The SNS is too important for the Portuguese so that it can be treated in a partial way, without a strategic vision and without a desirable broad consensus. There are, of course, different ways of doing both legislatively and budgetaryly, but above all, political choices. We are available, as always, to participate in this effort and prepare for the future, through a new basic law that we will present to Parliament next September. We will thus be in a position to present this law, celebrating the 40 years of the National Health Service, approaching it from a vision of modernity to the next decade. After 40 years of creation, it is clear that only the defense of a National Health Service will guarantee equity in access to quality health care. This is also how we can continue to defend a strong and sustainable social state. the state will ensure the scrupulously compliance with the principles of universality, the general coverage of access, in conditions of equity and quality, as dreamed and realized António Arnaut and how today we have the responsibility to give fulfillment and body. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u15	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we then move on to the question stage. The first questions are addressed to the Inter-Pelent Party, the Greens Ecological Party. The Bureau records two requests for clarification to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, who has already informed us that he will answer together. The first request for clarification is from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, through Mr João Marques. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, thank you very much for this initiative of the Green Party. The honourable Member has told us about the problem associated with 35 hours and we cannot ignore that this process was a political option, it was not to do favors to anyone and much less to professionals. It is a process that, in health, recognizes the conditions of effort and intensity of work of these same professionals and restores equality between them. Therefore, considering the number and specificity of the sector, this is a process that is in itself one of the most complex organizational and structural changes of the SNS and is therefore demanding. That is why it must be carried out in a responsible and rigorous manner, without yielding to trade union pressures or professional orders. This process is, in the opinion of the Socialist Party, to be conducted properly and naturally. Therefore, in a period where it is normal to reduce activity between July and August, which leads to active bed management every year, it was decided, well, to schedule this transition process in order to avoid the creation of pressure on the normal functioning of the entities. Between January and June this year 1600 professionals were recruited to adjust the plan. Until September, there will be a phase of recruitment of 2000 professionals — endless contracts. An assessment of the situation will be made in September. Mr. Member, we must not forget that there have always been deficiencies in the National Health Service, as mentioned here, and despite today's social balance of presenting numbers above 2012, higher in more than 6000 professionals, we must take into account that these professionals have to improve, increase, ensure and continue to improve the National Health Service and that is the work that has been done. I therefore leave the following question to you: in relation to this process and its assessment, does you understand that it must be done gradually, as happened in the equivalent process in 2016 with workers in public office? Do you recognize or not that today we have more professionals than in 2012 when the PSD and CDS decided to pass all professionals to 40 hours a week? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u17	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u18	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I would like to congratulate the Greens on bringing the debate today to such an important issue as that of defending the National Health Service, especially at a time when users and professionals feel in their skin the difficulties in access to health care. in this debate, we will have the opportunity to clearly understand who they have done everything to destroy the National Health Service and who they are who do everything to defend it. The concern of successive governments is not whether or not Portuguese have difficulties with access to health care, nor is there a lack of money for the SNS. Your concern is to do everything to make health stop being a right and become a big business. That is your commitment and that is your interest! As the honourable Member has expressed concern, the CFP also demonstrates that the current government has not yet broken with the policies that harm the SNS, for example the end of the PPPs, the repeal of the moderate rates and even the amendment of the legal regime of the medical institution, for which the CFP presented here proposals to remove the serious aspects of this regime, proposals which have, however, been rejected, with the government changed to worse that regime. Are you not concerned about the lack of investment in the acquisition and renewal of equipment, the construction and requalification of buildings, the hiring of the professionals needed to provide quality and timely care and to value these professionals, socially and professionally, as well as to remove all obstacles that prevent users from accessing health? Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we agree with you about the need to value health workers through the increase in wages, integration into an effective career, the transition of workers into an individual employment contract to public employment contracts, the regularization of precarious links, integrating them into public-linked employment contracts, the improvement of working conditions, the hiring of professionals in need and the improvement of the functioning of occupational health. Mr President, in the opinion of the Greens, the strengthening of public health and mental health, the extension of the number of beds in continuous integrated care and palliative care in the public network, the repeal of moderation rates and the allocation of non-emergency transport to all those who need it, are or are not indispensable for the defense of the SNS and for the improvement of access to health? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u19	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u20	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. João Marques and Mr. João Dias the questions put. Mr João Marques, in fact, the shift from 40 hours to 35 hours a week was not a favour to anyone, it was a matter of justice, it was a political option, with all the sense of justice and, say, opportunity. We doubt that the government's planning for the entry into force of this measure has been carried out in a timely manner. We know that the government announced the hiring of more than 2000 health professionals two weeks before the measure entered into force. So what we want is that, in fact, 35 hours — because that was the purpose — have a positive impact on health services, patients and also on health professionals. Therefore, what is at stake here is only planning, which, in our view, has not been properly constructed, because the measure is already in force and there are hospitals that continue to scale at 40 hours and, above all, without giving the workers the indication that these five hours more would be paid as extraordinary work. Then, Mr. João Marques, there have always been shortcomings in the National Health Service, it is true — and we say - in our initial intervention - that is a structural problem, it is not now. In fact, I even referred to the previous government, because it was the maximum exponent at the level of cuts, having cut at least at the moderate rates, which it has inflated, as we all know. And even we had a Health Minister who said, with all the property, that he was closing up health services—it doesn't matter! — to improve Portuguese access to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u22	This is the portrait of the previous government, which then certainly had the applause of the PSD and CDS banks. Finally, he said there were more health professionals than in the previous government. It's true, we already recognize it. in this legislation thousands of health professionals have already been hired, when we know that, during the four years of the PSD/CDS government, 7500 health professionals have left, have gone to unemployment, have gone to other work. Of course we lost 7500 workers, health professionals, during the previous government. Mr. João Dias, we agree. In fact, by summarizing what I said about the rostrum, we believe that the central problem is based on three elements. The first is the investment. Investment is needed because the National Health Service has been subject to structural underfunding and the lack of investment, in turn, causes the lack of technical and human resources. We know that there are 6000 professionals in the field of health, that, without investment, there will be no, and there are also no technical means. With regard to the barriers to access to health care by the Portuguese, I would say that we also agree with the honourable Member and, even with regard to the elimination of moderate rates, which are no longer moderate, and to the non-emergency of patients, the Greens have already delivered two legislative initiatives in the Assembly of the Republic, just so that no Portuguese is left out of the health services for economic reasons. Finally, he speaks of a problem which is central to this debate and which has to do with the promiscuity that is established between the public sector and the private sector in the field of health. We witnessed with some perplexity this tendency so that health is more and more a business and less a right. I said that in 2017, between public-private partnerships, the conventional regime and the hiring of services transferred to the private sector, the State had a charge of EUR 3.5 billion. Now, this money was very good at the National Health Service. That is why we do not accompany the Government in renewing public-private partnerships and that is why we believe that we need to put a brake on this promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector with health interests. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u23	We now turn to requests for clarification to the Government. 12 were registered. Members to request clarification from the Minister of Health, who informed the Bureau that he would reply jointly to four Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by giving the floor, to request clarification, to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u24	Mr President, Minister of Health, 35 hours a week for all professionals in the National Health Service is the most basic justice. These professionals cannot be harmed in relation to other civil service workers. Therefore, it was necessarily an option that had to be taken. It is also clear that, whether the PSD or the CDS, they are against the application of 35 hours a week, they argue that these professionals should continue to work 40 hours a week and consider that the reduction of working hours is absolutely harmful, that is to say, they consider that the rights due to these workers are a huge harm to the country. Now, this is no wonder for those who worked hard for the deterioration of the National Health Service and spent their lives, as they ruled, attacking health professionals, and not only. We completely distance ourselves from this view on the right, pure and hard, and in this sense, we battled for 35 hours. But the application of 35 hours, Mr Minister, requires adjustments, as is clear, necessarily require more personnel to be hired in order to give the right answers. It is that if this measure is not taken with the necessary dimension, what can result is the fragility of services to users, and that is not why we want to work, it is precisely the opposite. So, Mr Minister, knowing, above all, of the structural shortage of professionals in the field of health, should pay more attention to this need, making the adjustment of working hours. But it seems that the government has been late in this process and is now hiring the 2000 professionals, which, in our view, is far above the hour and is also done in an absolutely insufficient way. It is about this that I would like to ask you the first question, because I have heard contradictory statements from the Minister. What I think I have heard from the Minister was that there were now 2000 contracts and there would be new contracts in September. But then they changed their conversation and they say that in September there will be an evaluation, which seems to me to be something completely different. So I would like to ask Mr Minister directly if, out of knowledge, I think, quite practical that the Minister has of the situation, he considers that these 2000 professionals are sufficient. Do these 2000 professionals consider that they will address the inadequacies of workers of the National Health Service? It seems to me that Mr Minister, if he is realistic, he has to answer directly that he is not and that, therefore, this shortage of professionals is a given objective. So, I want to know what the government's plan is to work for the hiring of more professionals in the National Health Service, so that the answers are not fragile. Another question that I would like to ask Mr.Minister and for which I would also like to obtain a very objective answer is as follows: INFARMED has been assessing the conditions for the acquisition of an effective drug for spinal muscle atrophy by hospitals of the National Health Service for a year. Mr Minister, there is no alternative therapy, as Mr Minister knows. It was approved in the Assembly of the Republic the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 121 / 2018 of 23 March, which proceeded, moreover, with a draft resolution of The Greens and another draft resolution of the CFP, which clearly determined the need to conclude the evaluation process of this medicine quickly. Minister, the parents of children with spinal muscular atrophy are despairing, they see their children defining from day to day. There is more than urgency: tomorrow is too late! Mr Minister, I would like to have a very concrete answer to a very limited universe of children. How is it possible, Minister, that this delay on the part of INFARMED is jeopardizing the lives of children in our country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u25	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u26	I shall indeed end, Mr President, with one last question. We have talked here several times, Minister, about the need to have a family doctor for all users of the National Health Service. The government has already committed itself to a number of dates — unrealistic — from the perspective of the Greens. Now, we have the end of the legislature as a goal set by the government so that all citizens in Portugal have a family doctor. Now, the Greens want to know exactly what the concrete plan the Government has and is applying for us to reach the end of the Legislation with a family doctor for all, and they still want to know whether, perhaps, to comply with Law No 79 / 2015 of 29 July, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from The Greens, and that determines that all children born in Portugal are automatically assigned a family doctor, that program exists and is being applied. Mr Minister, I ask you for very concrete answers, because the Greens today come to debate in the plenary the defense of the National Health Service not to speak of principles but of the concrete life and concrete answers given to the citizens. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Although the indication is that, in this kind of debate, questions can be used up to twice as long as normal time, the honourable Member has greatly exceeded that time, which was 4 minutes. I therefore ask the other parliamentary groups not to follow this example. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor to request clarification from Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u28	Mr President, Minister, I have in my hands the report on the relocation of INFARMED, which came to Parliament in response to a request from the PSD, prepared by 27 experts whom you have designated, a report which happens to a statement that you made on 21 November 2017, saying « I am very pleased to announce that, by decision of the Government, from 1 January 2019, INFARMED will have its seat in the Port ». Mr Minister : Mr Exa, first of all, says this on 21 November and now, at the end of June, the report comes. Mr Minister, we have a few questions to ask you about this study. The first question, Minister, is this: will there be a transfer from Infarmed to Port or not? The second question is: when will there be this transfer from Infarmed to Port? Is it really on January 1, 2019 or not? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, in Infarmed — as you, in fact, recently acknowledged — is really important for workers. Workers are really very important in Infarmed: pharmacists, chemicals, biochemicals, people who take a long time to qualify, very differentiated staff and who, in fact, compete in quality with any country in Europe. It says at a certain point on page 62, that there is a very small number of current officials to move to port and that this number is clearly insufficient to ensure the continuity of the operation of Infarmed in port. That's it. So my third question is: Minister, without Infarmed employees, how will there be this change to port? Are there any changes in employees? How is this gonna happen? We'd like to understand. Fourth question: the Directorate-General for Health says, in its contribution, that it is, in fact, mirrored on page 32 of the same Report, that there is a risk of a lack of rapid and effective interinstitutional response in the emergency of public health. Mr. Minister is a doctor, a public health doctor, and the question I ask him is this: is this risk, which the Directorate-General of Health talks about, the maximum health authority in this country, being duly guarded, if Infarmed is transferred to the Port? Mr Minister, the PSD is in favour of the relocation, decentralisation and the fight against centralism in Lisbon. I even tell you more: I, from Bragança, Minister, know very well the importance of decentralization of public services. But, Minister, this decentralization must be prudent, sensible, well-sustained and, above all, positive for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u30	So my fifth question is this: despite what you say in the report, is relocation really positive for the country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u31	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, in his speech, announced several things, underlined others, but lack of facts, the first of which is the lack of professionals in the National Health Service ( SNS ). They were already missing, before the passage to 35 hours, and now they're even more missing. But they were already missing, because the hiring authorizations were, and are still, hostages of the Ministry of Finance. Just meet with any health centre, just meet with any hospital to know that most of the applications for authorization that are made to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, for hiring, have no answer or are denied. Therefore, there is a lack of professionals until they comply with the staff framework of any institution. The Left Block has proposed and has defended a very clear measure to resolve this situation: autonomy of contracting institutions. I also ask clearly: will Mr Minister give autonomy to the institutions in order to be able to make the contracts that they need to make and meet their own needs? Yes or no? But there are few professionals, because the exits of professionals, particularly nurses, who were for primary health care, have not been replaced, or other professionals, who were for the private and have not been replaced. in the Hospital de Santa Maria, for example, more than 100 nurses went out in 2018, and only half were replaced. That is, in the Hospital de Santa Maria, in 2018, there are fewer nurses than in 2017 — and it is not a single case! — because not all nurses and all professionals who left were replaced. We arrived at 35 a.m. then. The 35 hours are fair, health work is worn out quickly and therefore professionals must obviously have the right to rest, even for the protection of the professional and for the safety of the user. But 35 hours is really 35 hours! It is not 35 hours later to do another 10 or 15 hours of additional work which is often not paid, because it goes to the hour bag. 35 hours must be 35 hours! However, Mr Minister, in order to be 35 hours it is not only necessary 2000 professionals, not only 2200 professionals are needed, not only 2500 professionals are required, 6000 professionals are required. And the accounts are very easy to do! Mr. Minister often refers to the Social Report of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service and, if we are to see that 2017, we see that individual employment contracts for indefinite time, excluding doctors, are 42 000. The 35-hour transition requires the hiring of more than 6000 professionals. This takes into account the fact that there are 42,000 individual employment contracts in the National Health Service in the various professional categories. Thus, 2000 professionals do not guarantee 35 hours, they guarantee it is more extraordinary hours that each of these professionals will be obliged to do. So, Minister, the question is very simple: are you or are you not prepared to review this forecast, to review this idea of hiring and, instead of being 2000 professionals, to be those who need to hire, that is, 6000 by September? Yes or no? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u33	To end the first round of questions to the Government, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Minister came here today to read us a speech similar to what you did yesterday, what you did last week, what you did in previous weeks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u35	He's here every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u36	... because, in fact, Mr Minister has the gift of not letting reality stand in his political discourse, so the speech is exactly the same every time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u38	But yesterday in the Commission, there was indeed a novelty. At some point, the Minister explained to us that it would be very paradoxical that a minister of his size and with his work, who also managed to list us, could have some feeling of less motivation or fragility. In fact, I agree with the paradoxical word, because it is really the one I would choose to classify its governance with regard, for example, to ADSE ( Institute of Disease Protection and Assistance, IP ). Otherwise, let us see: on 15 November 2016, in the Council of Ministers, a new model of governance was approved, which Mr. Minister guaranteed, at the exit of that Council of Ministers, that it would be the biggest reform of ADSE, since its constitution in 1963. So, a year and a half later, what happened, exactly, to this huge reform that Mr. Minister was going to lead? Well, to set up the General and Supervisory Council, we had about a year or so to wait. We now have a Director-General who has been resigning since April, but who has been in office two months ago, and whose replacement Mr. Minister has been repeating that he is shortly. Even today, I've been told it might be for the week. We'll wait! Relations with private providers are tense and since April there has been no negotiations — I repeat, Minister, there is no negotiations! — contrary to what Mr Minister has told us both in the Commission and in writing. last week, on Sunday, 1 July, new rules were published and came into force, for example, pre-authorisations for several medical acts, and the ADSE system is not prepared and beneficiaries were not previously notified. But the 2017 ADSE accounts also raised many reservations to the auditors, as reflected in the official opinion that was delivered, the request of the CDS Parliamentary Group. As for the enlargement to new beneficiaries, which Mr. Minister announced in 2016 and 2017, we are in mid-2018 and nothing has happened, on the contrary, are several beneficiaries who have come out of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u40	Therefore, Mr Minister, of this extraordinary reform, which was to be unique since 1963, paradoxically, there is nothing good, indeed, there is nothing to show. Therefore, Minister, in this matter, the question is only this: not to decide today is to question the future sustainability of ADSE. I don't know if what he lacks is motivation, or if it's anything else, but surely it was time to act and therefore I ask him: when will he take action on ADSE, so that his future is not compromised? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u41	In order to answer this set of questions, the Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would begin by replying globally, if I may, on the question of 35 hours. As Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, and also Mr Moisés Ferreira, 35 hours are not a political decision-making whim, they are an imperative of recognizing the specificity of work in health, particularly of shiftwork, which is a demanding work, which wears out and which, of course, must be taken into account in its size. But they also mean, as is general knowledge, indirect valuation, because, by reducing the hours from 40 to 35, there is an indirect remuneration benefit. And they also mean that after the first process of transformation of the PNT (normal period of work), in July 2016, which covered nurses, we are now dealing with other professional groups, that not only nurses. This is therefore, as mentioned here, the greatest process of transformation of labour relations within the National Health Service. We understand, then, that from the Government's point of view there is an absolute consonance in this matter with that which was the intervention of the Green Party. We believe that this is not a favor for workers, it is an act of justice and recognition. And we don't have, either, as Mrs. Deputies will imagine, not about 35 hours, nor about Infarmed, states of soul! We don't think about something on Monday and something else on Tuesday, we always think about the same thing. Now, what is to be said about this matter is the following: planning was done, as had happened in 2016, and until June this year 1600 professionals were recruited. at this time, hospitals have permission to choose the groups of professionals who want to hire, even taking advantage of the recruitment scholarships of many of these hospitals. As happened in 2016, Mrs. Member, it will happen in 2018! Despite the alarmism and the professionals of catastrophe, with the committed collaboration of the institutions, as is happening now, we will do the work that matters. It is important to refer to the Portuguese, to reassure them, that there are 21,000 beds in the National Health Service! It is 21,000 beds, which means that 98 % of the beds are not going through any period of instability. And it is also necessary to explain to the Portuguese that hospitals have issues, here, in Europe, this year and even with previous governments, that have to do with the official lotion, the average lotion, the lot practiced, that have to do with the seasonal management of beds in the summer... That is why, in 2016 and 2018, we chose to make this transition in the period when there are fewer professionals, in which there are fewer users and in which some hospitals take advantage, in particular, to close operating blocks and make their preventive maintenance. Therefore, in the name of the truth and the quietness of people, it is appropriate not to cultivate an alarmist language. If hospital A or B has a specific difficulty, we do not devalue it and, of course, what we do is act with ARS (Regional Health Administration ) and ask if the planning made needs to be corrected. But 21 000 beds are not 10 or 8, nor 9! With regard to the question which the honourable Member raised in September and that I had in mind the speech on what she said yesterday in the Commission, the answer is no, Mrs Deputie. I have a huge difficulty in saying one thing on Wednesday and another on Friday because, in fact, I think it is our obligation as long as we are politicians responsible for the use of the word. What I said yesterday in the Commission, and I repeat here in the plenary, was that the Secretary of State and her office, with the ACSS (Central Health System Administration ) and with the ARS, in September, will make the evaluation that is important to do this process and will then estimate, if, on a case-by-case basis, whether the entity, the answers that have been assigned are the necessary and appropriate responses. We must not forget that institutions are not all the same! There are institutions that have more efficient performance, which need resources of another kind and that—as was said yesterday in the debate in the Commission—is not something to be looked at. We cannot say 'I think it is 10 000' or 'I think it is 15 000'! It's nothing like that. Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on the issue which you have raised, is in fact this commitment that the work is being done with planning, weighing and in close coordination with the leaders, both regional and local. With regard to the issue you have raised, concerning the approval of the medicinal product, I asked for help from Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, who spoke to Infarmed, and the information I have is that the approval process will be very short, but the Greens Ecological Party will be informed in writing. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it is clear that there are no professionals. The government never said they were there! Now, turning a little back to reality, the question is that, comparing 2012 and 2013 with 2018, there are more 8,000 professionals, who are now being hired together with the 2000s, totaling 10 000. But will anyone understand or accept that there is no difference between having less 10 000 or more 10 000? Oh, my God! But will anyone understand or accept that the remuneration, the revaluation of supplementary and extraordinary work, the protection of maternity, the rights of persons, the reduction of the PNT (normal working time) means that—as Mr de las Verdes said in his initial speech—in some respects, we are committing some sins or sins that the previous government has committed? We're not! Our vision is completely different, our relationship with work is different, our relationship with health workers is different! Now, one thing I say to you, Mr. Moisés Ferreira: it is different, but it is responsible! We are not, as the CDS seemed to be, yesterday, in committee, an agent for the replication of the needs expressed by unions and orders. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u43	Those who define the needs are ACSS, are the ARS, are the institutions, with technical criteria and not with political-union or populist criteria. in this fair measure, perhaps the CDS, for a few years now, when we return to power—we hope that as soon as possible—can become an executive of the demands of the unions daily. We, that, we won't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, on the issue of ADSE, is not concerned about the tension of relations between ADSE and private providers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u45	It does not bother, because this tension is positive, it means that ADSE is probably defending the public interest well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question of the stability of the model, Mrs Deputy, do you remember that yesterday in the Commission, I even glossed a little of that image of your party leader, who said that there was a need for a back-viewer here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u46	I remember, I remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u47	But in the morning, when I came here, I thought the problem wasn't the rearviewer, because you don't look at the rearviewer anymore to see what happened back there, the problem is that he must be in the middle of it. What you need is a sandwich to clear the rearview! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u48	Machist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u49	Madam Member, ADSE is stable, has a functioning General and Supervisory Council, has a President who, for reasons that are known in the public domain, has apologized and has left; next week will be appointed the new President, late who was due to the CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ) process. There is no instability in ADSE, please do not scare the beneficiaries, because there is no need to scare them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u50	You're an incompetent, machist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u51	Indeed, there is no reason why you should have this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u52	Mr. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u53	Finally, on the issue which Mr. Adam Silva raised about Infarmed, he read...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u54	Machist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u55	I also use sandwiches, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I have no problem using them! I use them a lot, sir, I use them a lot! I do a lot of cleaning at home, sir! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u56	Be careful with the cleaning you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u57	Don't go that way! Don't go that way, because you're wrong! He's wrong! Raise the debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Take a good look at what was going on in his head: the sandwich!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u58	It's better to take a little calmer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u59	Mr Adam Silva, he has read the report and, like you, we will also read it. There are two red lines that I always said would be taken into account: the first is the quality, security and protection of public service and public interest, the second is the question of workers and their vital interest. Therefore, we are reading the document and there are, of course, issues that we are going to deepen and improve with the Governing Council. on 18 I came to the Commission for a specific hearing on this issue of Infarmed, and I am sure that at that time we will have more data so that we can talk in detail about Infarmed. I have doubted that, too, but at the end of the day, the honourable Member will be able to clarify it, which was whether the PSD maintains or not it is a good idea to decentralise public services to the interior and the north of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u61	I said that! Don't do a political chicana!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u62	Anyway, this question remains and we will speak on day 18. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u63	Mr Minister of Health, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia recently said, was decided at the Conference of Leaders that, in these circumstances, the response time is twice as usual, so in this case, Mr Minister's response time would be 6 minutes. The Minister was far from it, so I asked him, if he didn't mind next time, that would be corrected, even because, as Mr Minister still has to answer eight Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u64	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u65	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u66	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u67	True?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u68	... on behalf of the seriousness of the debate you are conducting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u69	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u70	Mr President, the Minister has the Infarmed report in hand about a week ago. You've been asked five concrete questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u71	That's not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u72	That's not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u73	That's not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u74	...and the Minister did not answer any questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u75	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u76	...saying you're going to study the report, which has just over 100 pages...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u77	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u78	...and that Mr. Minister has been in hand for a week.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u79	That's not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u80	Mr Adam Silva, do not force me to cut you off. That, as you know, is not an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, because it is not part of the functions of the President of the Parliament to determine how it answers the questions that are put.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u81	The debate must be constructive, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u82	The non-response of questions deserves a political judgment, and each one will do its own. I will also do mine, but it is a political issue which, of course, I do not bring here. [[Mr Rui Riso's applause.]] We then move on to the second round of questions to the Minister of Health. To this end, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, there are no SNS without professionals, professionals are central to the proper functioning of the SNS. Yesterday, the Minister acknowledged that, and I quote, "they still lack resources", but he also said that, and I quote again, "there will be no budgetary conditions to recruit the entire universe of professionals we wanted". Mr Minister, this statement is unacceptable! It is not the lack of money that does not allow professionals to hire, it is the lack of political will. These are the options of the PS and its government for the accelerated reduction of the deficit, which prevent the hiring of professionals who are missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u85	Delayed surgeries, waiting lists, closing beds and services are the most visible result of the lack of health professionals. The shortage is not now, it is many years ago, and the PS government, although it has hired professionals, has not done so in sufficient numbers. In addition, it took time to take the necessary measures to hire professionals to deal with changes in working hours and during the holiday period. Mr Minister, the option must be to strengthen the SNS, to hire professionals and to value them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government are not genuine about the concerns of the PSD and the CDS that we have now heard. None of the parties are concerned about professionals, users or SNS. Its concerns are to favour the economic groups that operate in health, its objective is to weaken the SNS in order to encourage the transfer of health care and public record to the large economic groups. Mr Minister, for every day that delays the hiring of health professionals is another day when the capacity of public response is reduced, it is another day when the economic groups operating in health are favoured. What needs to be done is to hire professionals and, for that reason, it is enough to speed up the competitions, speed up the procedures pending authorization from the Government and give speed to these authorisations. What it is necessary to do, in order to solve the problem of lack of doctors, is to open the competitions for newly-specialists doctors as soon as they finish training. What is needed is the social and professional valorization of health workers, through the creation of careers, the integration of professionals in these careers and their categories, as well as the recognition of all years of service and the fulfilment of the State budget as regards the defrosting of progressions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u87	What it is necessary to do is the government to comply with what it has assumed with nurses, such as payment of the supplement to specialist nurses. What needs to be done is the government reactivating collective bargaining with the representative structures of health workers. What needs to be done is to stop the draining of public money for the economic groups. Mr Minister, the question I leave you with is this: when will the government take these options and priorities to strengthen the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u88	To put your questions, you have the floor of Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, since the current government began office almost three years ago, Portuguese access to hospital consultations and scheduled surgery within the National Health Service, has suffered visible degradation. So far, those who denounced this degradation were all parties, with the exception of the Socialist Party, of course, independent reports, such as those of the Court of Auditors and the Portuguese Health System Observatory, were health professionals, were the unions and were the users themselves. However, contrary to what Mr Minister said in his initial speech, the report on access to health care in the SNS, concerning 2017, produced by his Ministry, also showed that access to health is getting worse from year to year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u90	That's not true, sir! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u91	I give you just three examples, comparing the years 2015 and 2017: the median of time until the first hospital consultation increased from 82 days to 86 days, an increase of 5 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u92	And how many more were done?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u93	... there are more 34 000 Portuguese on a waiting list for an operation in the SNS, an increase of 17 %—was 197 000 in 2015 and were 231,000 in 2017, in fact only in the last year, increased by more than 20 000 users registered for surgery ; the average waiting time of patients for surgery increased from 2, 9 months to 3, 1 months. These indicators, Minister, are serious and cannot be ignored. I therefore ask you, Minister: what measures will the Government take to reduce waiting times for consultations and surgeries in the SNS? And what measures will you take to reverse the current trend of increasing the number of Portuguese on a waiting list for an operation in the SNS? Finally, Mr Minister, I leave you with one last question. They recently entered the service at INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ), about a hundred pre-hospital emergency technicians. There has been mention of problems with regard to practical training in the field of such technicians, in particular the lack of access to training in the context of ambulances. Do you know and recognize Mr. Minister this problem? And what measures does the Government intend to take to resolve this situation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u94	To put your questions, Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, the improvement of the care provided in the National Health Service urgently calls for a significant — underlining, significant — increase the investment in the conservation and repair of hospital equipment and the replacement of obsolete equipment. Indeed, Mr. Minister, years of attack on the National Health Service, carried out by successive governments, with particular emphasis on the previous PSD/CDS government, resulted in a profound degradation of hospital equipment. In view of this situation, which required decisive action, the action of the Government has been clearly insufficient. For example, Mr. Minister, the case of Algarve : in 2016, Mr. Minister announced with pump and circumstance an investment of 19 million euros in equipment at the Algarve University Hospital Center for the three-year period 2017 - 2019. In 2017, of the 11 million euros planned, only 5 million were executed, i.e. less than half. Faced with this situation by the CFP, the Minister acknowledged that the government failed to meet its investment objectives and apologized to the Algaves. Mr Minister, the recognition that you have not fulfilled your commitments is good for you but it is not enough. Now, we need to take the next step and translate this recognition into a significant reinforcement of investment in Algarve hospitals and across the country. So I ask you: is Mr Minister available to announce a significant reinforcement of this investment today? Or are you going to tell us again that "we are all Centeno" to justify the priority given to the accelerated deficit reduction objectives? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, for the CFP, the national priority is not the accelerated reduction of deficit or debt, the submission to European Union taxes or the interests of the economic groups that make a business. For the PCP, priority is — it can only be! — the response to the problems of the people and the country, ensuring in particular a comprehensive, universal, free and quality national health service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u96	The last inscription, in this round of questions, is by Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u97	Mr President, Minister of Health, I am still going back to the question of 35 hours to say that we do not devalue the hiring of these 2000 workers, which the Government has announced now, what we are asking is the opportunity, taking into account the planning that needs to be made and that should be done in a regular and timely manner. Perhaps, Mr Minister continues to say that he was done in a regular and timely manner, but the truth is that there are many hospitals that continue to make service scales at 40 hours and without telling the workers anything about paying those five hours more. In addition, I also felt interested in knowing which professionals we are talking about in this 2000 universe what functions they will perform and when they are actually going into function. On this issue, I believe it would also be important — and in our view this is the central issue — to know how the Government will ensure that this reduction in working hours in the health sector will have positive reflections in services, professionals and, above all, in patients. It was important for the Minister to tell us how the government is going to be careful to do so. Finally, Mr Minister, it was also important to understand how it is justified that there are hospital centres, such as the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, with months of delay in paying suppliers, at least in relation to small companies that provide ambulance services to that Hospital Center. Only if it is to put an end to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that, at the end of 10 months without receipt, must continue to pay wages, car insurance, maintenance, fuel... only if it is to end the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The problem is that this is not the first time that happens. A year and a half ago, we addressed a written question to the government, exactly because the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro was taking about nine months to pay its suppliers. Then it ended up paying, but now the same scenario is repeated, that is, these companies are not received for about nine months. Therefore, this means that you are being cyclical, so it was good for the Minister to tell us what this delay warrants in payments from the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Center. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u98	To answer this second round of questions, Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u99	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, the issue you have raised, in fact, has set out a number of questions, starting from what needs to be done. What it is necessary to do, Mrs Carla Cruz, is to complete what is missing, in view of the much that has already been done. In the first round I have had the opportunity to mention what we have done—for reasons of time, of course, I will not list everything we have done since 2015—but, Mrs Carla Cruz, it is true that there is still a lot to do. She asked me about the statement I made yesterday in the Health Committee that she could not possibly recruit all the resources she needed this year. That's right, Mrs. Member! And you know why? Because the Parliament is four years old and the exercise we have come to do is a phased exercise, Budget Budget, year by year. Of course, this year we will recruit as much as possible and in 2019 we will do the same. Our objective is that, when we reach the end of the Legislature, with responsibility and process, we can have the issues of the need for human resources I do not say fully resolved, because, as you know, in health, they are very difficult to satisfy in full, but surely with a picture that approaches those that are their concerns and that are also our concerns. Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, raised questions related to his concern regarding INEM. INEM today has more professionals, more equipment and more resources and, from the point of view of service levels, is responding better than it was at the time when the report that you mentioned was made public. Mr President, I would like to tell you that, with regard to the degradation of the National Health Service and the reading of the access report, you have certainly read what is there when you mention that we have the largest number of registered surgical lists, the largest number of operators, the largest number of consultations. When more people come to the SNS, which was what happened in 2016 and 2017 — they had never come so many Portuguese to the SNS — there are two things that happen: the SNS answers more, because it operates more, makes more consultations, carries out more acts and, of course, registers more people in a waiting process, which we obviously want to be as minimal as possible. There's one thing we don't want to do, Mr. Luís Vales :...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u100	And what do you want to do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u101	...we do not want to have no waiting lists for virtual hiding mechanisms or access barriers, which was what happened to the transport of patients,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Vales.]] ... unbearable for the economic power of people, which was what happened to moderate rates, unbearable for most people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u102	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u103	Finally, telling the honourable Member that 90 % of the surgeries, I repeat, 90 % of the surgeries are performed within the maximum guaranteed response time and, in the case of priority diseases, particularly oncology, we speak of 98 %. We also have today the largest number of users operated in the public sector and, of course, also the largest number of patients operated in the conventional protocoled sector, as always happened, which is part of a complementary response to the National Health Service. Finally, Mr Paulo Sá, with regard to the Algarve, are currently running about EUR 6 million and we need to accelerate the investment process in the Algarve mentioned here. In fact, within days we will be going to Portimão to inaugurate a heavy equipment that is very lacking at Portimão Hospital. in this regard, the Algarve needs more investment and we must recover until the end of the legislature, in accordance with what you mentioned here. As for the reference made by the honourable Member, if we choose between debt, deficit, or more resources for State social functions, we all agree. I have many doubts that there is a social state or that there are social functions of the State in a destroyed economy, in an economy unable to generate value to restore, revitalize that same social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u104	So what about me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u105	Mr President, I am sorry, Mr José Luís Ferreira is right, I have failed to give him an answer, which I am going to do quickly. Mr Deputy, about the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Center and the payment to firemen, is being sent today to the ARS, and the honourable Member is right, they are small companies, they are small associations that it is important to preserve. As regards the question of the functions to motivate and translate into the impact of investment in patients, it is clear that combining investment in infrastructure and equipment, in the quality of work and in working conditions, has obvious consequences in the medium term, either in satisfaction or in the quality of the services provided. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u106	We then move on to the last round of questions to Mr Minister, all of the PSD Parliamentary Group. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I have three specific questions to ask you. In mid-April last, the Minister stated textually, in relation to the construction of the future pediatric wing of the Hospital de S. João, in Porto, what I quote: « Money is available, but there are issues of procedural processing which I think will be in a position within two weeks for the procedures to be implemented ». Well, Minister, it's been a lot longer than two weeks, actually, it's been three months and no procedure has been launched. Even yesterday in the Health Committee, the Minister said that the investment is authorized, but the fact is that, after three years of your government, the international public competition has not been launched or seen. Mr Minister, after years waiting, the minimum acceptable is that the Minister has a concrete answer and does not continue to postpone this decision, telling users, whenever they come here or are referring to this publicly, which is another week away, which is another two weeks away. In fact, this is its recurring technique, in discursive terms, in relation to this matter. Second question: what will Mr Minister do about pediatric hospitalization at Hospital de S. John, who also leaves much to be desired at this time, not to say anything else. The third and last question, which has been put to you here, but the answer to which the Minister has re-sentfully escaped, is bound by access. Let's go to numbers: in 2005 the percentage of hospital consultations conducted within the maximum guaranteed response time was about 74%. In response to a question from the PSD Parliamentary Group, in fact to a question put by me, the Minister said that, and I quote, « (...) all that is less than 80 % will be ambitious. (...) ». Therefore, the Minister promised that it would increase from 74 % to 80 % the number of consultations within the guaranteed maximum response time. Well, Minister, we are in 2017 and the percentage of consultations carried out within the maximum guaranteed response time is 72%, i.e. the Minister did the opposite of what he promised. Access is worse, it has lowered, and therefore I ask the Minister what response he has to give to SNS users. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u108	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u109	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as the Minister and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, in December 2016, after a visit to the Pediatric Hospital in Coimbra, the construction of a new maternity facility in Coimbra was announced. It looked like a good Christmas present—we were in December 2016! This maternity would replace the two existing maternity leave, which would be good in terms of resource management and would be good for women, mothers and children. It happens that in March 2017, already in a very strange situation, the creation of a working group was announced to study the construction process of the new motherhood. We were in March 2017, this working group had to speak until April and, meanwhile, nothing arises. Nothing emerges, maternity is not included in the Stability Programme, but we have been seeing news, in particular the Order of Doctors, that warned of the alarming situation that existed, for the collapse of maternity services in Coimbra, especially the Motherhood Bissaya Barreto, at risk for women and children. As nothing happened on 20 April this year, a press conference was held with Mr. Minister in Coimbra, where the location of the new maternity is announced on the perimeter of the hospitals of the University of Coimbra. Prof. Regateiro defends the solution a lot, other doctors also defend this solution, since it is convenient to be close to a central block with all services, because, as we know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u110	Central block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u111	Did the central block have any services? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u112	... more and more women have their children late and often come up with complications, which is why it was extremely important to be near the Central Hospital. And so everything seemed to be walking well, Minister. But what's going on? I recall that the first announcement had been in December 2016 and the latter on 20 April 2018. Nothing happens! Nothing happens and, worse yet, divisions arise: the President of the Coimbra Municipal Chamber, who is a socialist, comes up with problems and says that he must be at the Covõ Hospital and see other political forces, more radical, also talk about other locations. The question is this, Minister : either there is irresponsibility or it is a fun maneuver to delay investment. And why? Because whoever has to decide is of the same political colour. Mr. President of the House is a socialist, Mr. President of the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra (CHUC ) was appointed by the Socialist Party and the President of ARS is also a socialist. Therefore, Mr Minister, in a responsible attitude, I appeal to you: feel, decide and tell us when they will build the new motherhood.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u114	It is crucial for women, it is crucial for children, it is crucial for Coimbra. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u115	It is Mr Cristovão Norte. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, about 15 days ago, in hearing in the Health Commission, I confronted the Minister with a report from the Algarve University Hospital Centre, which reported the profound negative development of the main health care indicators in the Algarve, in 2018, compared with 2017. At the time, the Minister said he did not know the report, and it was very serious that, in the face of such disturbing data, no one had informed the guardianship of the matter. Mr Minister, look at what the report says, and that requires an answer. There was a reduction of 21, 4 % of conventional scheduled surgeries; a reduction of 8, 33 % of surgeries abroad; a reduction of 6, 43 % in the first consultations and 6, 38 % in subsequent consultations; an increase of 6, 1 % in the number of deaths in hospitalization; an increase of 8, 1 % in hospital emergencies and 8, 91 % in basic emergencies; a reduction of 7, 48 % in day hospital patients. But it is not just this report that matters, Minister. The number of user complaints about health in the Algarve more than it doubled in 2017. While the national average had an increase of 18 % in the Algarve, the complaints increased by 103 %, triggering more than 5700 complaints. The first, third and eighth health centers with more complaints, in the country, are located in the Algarve — Portimão, Faro and Albufeira. These complaints, Minister, are cries of pain and despair from citizens whose access to health is increasingly compromised and who do not find in the government the political determination to change the direction of things. And they do not find, because the government decided to do four hospitals and the Algarve, which was the second priority at the national level, was left out. They cannot be found when there is no more doctors or measures to solve these structural strangulations. They are not found when training skills are lost and the ability to fix doctors in the region is called into question. Mr Minister, I do not demand you—because I have done so often without results and therefore adopted a different strategy—I ask you to choose the Algarve as your health priority, as I have said many times, that it would and has not yet done so. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u117	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, in his initial speech, made no reference to the construction of the new hospital in Madeira. by the way, the new Madeira hospital remains not one of the options and a priority for this government, it remains out of the reach of the new hospitals to the country. That which has been a commitment of this Government and the Prime Minister since 2015 has been successively postponed. Mr Minister, this lack of references concerns us and we hope that there will be no repetition of the play of lead in the project of common interest, as has already been noted. Allow me to tell you that, in my land, it is said that «a joke to have grace once enough» and also tells the people that « they do not play with serious things». The new Madeira hospital is a very important and very serious matter to be viewed as a joke. As you know last week and for the second time, the Regional Government of Madeira submitted the nomination of the new hospital to a project of common interest. Once again, this application was submitted within the deadline and containing all the documentation. Therefore, Minister, there is no room for doubt that the project of the new Madeira hospital meets all the requirements and meets all the criteria necessary to be classified as a project of common interest. Mr Minister, the Regional Government has already done, and continues to do its part, the Government of the Republic lacks to keep its word, to do its part and to honour the commitments it has made. That is why, Mr Minister, we are asking when to finance the new Madeira hospital. Will this government finally devote an amount, already in the next State budget, to the construction of the new hospital? It is essential, Mr Minister, that an effective amount of money should be guaranteed, already in the next budget, to start the construction of the new hospital and this money—it is good to clarify this aspect—is independent of the decision of approval or not of the project of common interest. Therefore, Minister, it is in your hands, it is in the hands of this government, to honour or not the commitment that has been made to the Madeirans and Port-Saints. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u119	In order to answer all the questions put, the Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question put by Mr Simão Ribeiro refers to an approach made in the previous round. Mr President, only the lists and inscriptions are increased if there is more access. As in 2016 and 2017, as a result of the measures taken, there were more accesses, of course, that there are more people registered, but there are many more people operated, much more consultations conducted and in priority areas, particularly in surgeries, as I said recently, 80% of compliance was within time and 91% in priority areas. So, honourable Member, access is not worse. It is worth realizing the difference between going over a few hundred thousands of Portuguese to the SNS or not, because this is the biggest aggregater of all the indicators we can have. As for the pediatric wing of St. John and the motherhood of Coimbra, I was able to answer together to Mr. Mr Simão Ribeiro and Mr Fatima Ramos. With regard to the pediatric department, the Government — by the voice of Mr. Prime Minister, at the bench where I meet, the Minister of Finance and myself — authorised the investment, the public tender will be launched at the very moment when the documents enabling the construction are ready. So I repeat what I said yesterday in the Commission. With regard to Coimbra, it is exactly the same, Mrs Fatima Ramos. We want such a structured equipment for the city to be a equipment based on the best technical evidence and, of course, economical and that manages the city's consensus. And it's not because they're socialist or not. We have nothing against the socialists, neither have anything against the social democrats nor against the centrists. Look, let's see where you come from, as long as there is a technical, political and economic consensus. Mrs Fatima Ramos said that we are just going to announce, as was the case at Funchal Hospital. Madam Member, we have not been in the government for four years announcing the construction of the Eastern Lisbon hospital, but we are running it and the international public contest is being made, the Sixal hospital too, the Sintra hospital as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, let us repeat what has been said here: the Government of the Republic shares with 50%. Please make the procedures you need to enable the launch of the international public invitation to tender and surely 50% will appear. We've been doing this for months, Your Honor. Someone has to take the initiative to take the first step, and I believe that the step is on your side. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we decide to hurry it is because we are irresponsible, if we decide with studies and with weight it is because we are hesitant or we do, but what is true is that, in this legislature, they will actually be in international public competition, in execution and construction a huge set of equipment that we have not heard of in the time when you were government. Finally, Mr Cristovão Norte, it is true that the claims in the Algarve have risen against the rest of the country. I do not know this report which you have referred to, I have already asked ACSS (Central Health Service Administration) to locate it, but, if you were in favour of bringing it to my hands, I would thank you. Regarding the issue of Algarve, what we have today is more human resources—more professionals, more family doctors, more nurses—, more investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u121	More, more, more! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u122	... and I assure you that we will continue to consider the Algarve a political priority and that if there is room in a new framework of financing and even consensus of the great public works in this House, of course the central hospital of the Algarve will be a political priority. What is true is that the Algarve has more valences today, has stabilized neurosurgery, has answers that were not three or four years old. There is much to do in the Algarve, the Algarve is a region very pressured at this time of year for the reasons we know, but surely that is why we will stop paying attention to the Algarve every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u124	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u125	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u126	May it be an interpeleration, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u127	Mr President, since Mr Minister asked, he asked the President to distribute to Mr. Minister and all banks the report on hospital activity of the University Hospital Center of Algarve — 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u128	Mr President, you will reach the Bureau, which will proceed to the distribution. For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u129	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have come today to discuss, once again, the health of Portuguese, the state of the National Health Service, the impact of socialist governance on Portuguese health, and we do - as we have done many times in recent times, because unfortunately reality is bad and it is the reality that compels us to come here, again and again, to denounce the health problems of Portuguese. It is the fact that every day we are urged by the Minister to be an effective minister and that, at the end of three years of governance, and despite Centeno, he assumes his government responsibilities and does not leave the Portuguese health behind. Unfortunately, Minister, that is not what happened. We must note and regret that in these three years of socialist governance, with the support of the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens, what we have seen is the SNS to be compromised to its care quality and sustainability. On the other hand, a small part of it is enough to see the growth of debts to suppliers, which in May were once again of an incalculable value. So, once again, we have a promise of payments that were to have been made and that has not been fulfilled. We regret that the Portuguese are every day — they are facts, Minister! — to feel the results of your government's deliberate choice not to invest in the National Health Service and the effects of hidden austerity imposed on public services also on health. We have already said that the structural reforms of the SNS are stopped. They are stopped in primary health care, they are stopped in public health, they are stopped in the hospital network, they are stopped in the responses intended for community health and at the level of continued care. The promises are, and have been, many, but the finances have imposed a strangulation on health services—that you, moreover—and there are investments that should have been made and continue to happen. They are promises and more promises, they are ads and more ads,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u131	... but then the hard reality, the one that you hate every day to deny, shows that the waiting lists for consultations and for surgeries do not stop increasing, that the professionals are exhausted and dissatisfied, disappointed with your government, the problems are not solved, accumulate, are promises that one day, preferably there later, everything will be solved. No, Minister, it's not all fantastic in the Portuguese health realm and your speaking skills are not enough to reassure us. The reality is worrying and it's not just the CDS that says it. They are the professional orders, they are the unions, they are the boards of administration, they are the associations of hospital administrators, they are independent entities such as the Court of Auditors that say that indeed things are not right. But let me remind you: it's also the patients. They are the patients of the Gaia / Espinho Hospital Center, the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center, Santarém, the IPO of Coimbra who tell you, Mr. Minister, that it does not, because the services are getting worse. So do not come to tell us that it is a matter of seasonality and summer, because it is not true. It is the transition to the 35 hours a week that you did not caution and, despite having done so yesterday, let me once again clarify that we have nothing against the 35 hours transition, we are, yes, against the unprepared form as it is being done harming patients and professionals. [[PS protests.]] We want to ask you here why you have promised more contracts and have not done so, and why, in the face of more than 6000 necessary professionals, you have only carried out one third of these contractions so far. Mr Minister, I do not know if you remember but three years ago we asked you how much it would cost the implementation of 35 hours a week — how much it would cost the State, how much it would cost the patients, how much it would cost the professionals. The question is, Minister: with the results in view, the bad results, how does the Minister want the Portuguese to continue to rely on their promises and on socialist governance? How does it intend that the Socialists, not only all Portuguese, continue to rely on parties who come here today to ask you for responsibilities and point to blame, but then they will then negotiate with you, make it possible and support your budgets? How do you want us to trust this government? The reality, the facts, is to deny it, Mr Minister. Don't tell the Portuguese that they have to get used to this state of affairs and we ask them again to assume their government responsibilities, that they are finally ministers, because it is worth more late than ever. I will conclude by recalling that yesterday in the Commission, Mr Minister, in complete dissonance with reality, made a self-declaration, highlighted his actions as 'Star Minister', 'Star Minister', 'Star Minister of the last 30 years' — an extensive list which you have listed — a little bit in the style 'My mirror, my mirror, will there be a better minister than I do? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We saw that! We have also seen—and, Minister, neither I nor the CDS are ungrateful—that you have devoted special attention to the CDS not answering our questions and today you have already mentioned here that you have never received a gift from the President of our party and we even felt that it was with some sadness, almost perhaps, envy of the Prime Minister, who has already received several. Well, Minister, I don't bring you any sandwich, a sandwich I don't bring, but I bring a connection to reality, let's say this: an Oscar! This is an Oscar for Mr. Minister. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed an Oscar statue.]] It is not an Oscar for a fulfilling minister, it is not an Oscar for the best minister of government. With good democratic respect, believe — you know that yes — I want to tell you that this is an Oscar for the Minister who has already promised four times that he will unlock funds for the wing of pediatric oncology of Hospital S. João, and has never met or ever advanced with the works; it is an Oscar for the contracts that you say you will sign and not sign and those who veto in the boards of administration;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u132	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u133	...is, if you want, an Oscar for the science fiction you are voting for the National Health Service, which is not between Venus and Mars, is here on Earth. The Portuguese thank you for being a minister with or without Oscar! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[At this point, she sent the Minister of Health to Oscar's statue.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u134	The Bureau registered, to request clarifications from Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, Mr João Marques, of the PS. however, the honourable Member does not have time to answer, but I believe that Mr João Marques intends to make the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u135	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u136	Does Mr. João Marques give us time?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u137	That of time-giving is a problem I don't get into. It's none of my business. Mr. João Marques, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u138	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the question I want to ask you is very simple. Is it to take this CDS speech seriously?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u139	The Minister's not, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u140	Is it to take seriously this discourse on the degradation of the SNS when it was this government that contracted a record number of professionals for the National Health Service — plus 8000 professionals in 2015 — when, after the adjustment period of 35 hours of work, we will have more than 10 000 professionals? Is it to take it seriously? Today, SNS has more professionals than ever. Today, you have more doctors and nurses than you ever had. Is it to take this perspective of SNS degradation seriously, when it occurred in 2016 and 2017 the greatest ever demand in the SNS — see the Annual Access Report to the SNS — or when, for the first time, there was an reversal of the relationship between public spending and private expenditure — see the SNS Satellite Account —, when Portuguese have more consultations, more hospitalizations, more surgeries, more continuous care, more access to palliative care? Is it to take it seriously? When emblematic and fundamental works are launched, as you have not been able to do, as is the case with the Lisbon Oriental hospital, the central hospital of Alentejo, the hospital of Seixal, the hospital of Sintra, the expansion of the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) and the Garcia de Orta Hospital ; when construction and rehabilitation works were carried out in 113 health centres and in several hospitals in the country, with the acquisition of equipment that had been waiting for its replacement and repair for decades, being many of these works within the country, and when you, in four years, did zero, Mrs. Deputée, is to take seriously this speech of the CDS or is it only for political media? We've seen that. That's what we've been getting used to. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that the Portuguese don't take you seriously anymore. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] In conclusion, I want to say that the reason I see for this type of argument and to come here to attack this Minister of Health, this Ministry of Health and this government is because, indeed, they are following the right path, the path of recovery of the National Health Service, which you did not want,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u141	Ask outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u142	... because you are against your SNS dismantling strategy, because you are against your government's strategy, i.e. the tendency to deliver health services to the private sector, the strategy that you wanted to implement. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is the way you should go, Minister. It is the way of the Government Program, it is the path that defends the National Health Service and is the way that defends the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u143	Mr João Marques, as we have already mentioned, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has no time to respond to her request for clarification. Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Defending the SNS is protecting its design and its future. Defend SNS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u145	It's changing the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u146	... means honoring its foundation, assessing its course and its evolution, being attentive and responding to new challenges. Defending the SNS is ensuring its constant adequacy to the needs of the community, adapting and reforming its structures and modernizing its management. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Health and Health Service is a daily battle. It was a struggle in the past when, against the will of some, we passed the law of the National Health Service. It is a combat of the present when we fight the inequalities of access, when we guarantee the quality of health care, when we value professional careers and when we promote efficiency and sustainability by betting on innovation. It is a battle for the future when we protect it from economic, political, ideological threats and from different interest groups. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, more than wasting energy to fight the accessory, more than we lose ourselves in stereo narratives of perception, look at the reality of the past, we stand in the imperative of the present and concentrate on the consolidation of the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u148	Between 2011 and 2015, 7500 professionals were lost, EUR 1000 million was cut, moderate rates increased, emergency services and health centres closed, invested in infrastructure and technology, frozen therapeutic innovation and dislocation of public expenditure for private expenditure. [[PSD protests.]] Since 2015, we are doing justice and recovering the SNS: salaries have been rejected, the effective ones have increased, the 35 hours of work have been put back, more EUR 700 million have been transferred, moderate rates have been reduced, professional careers have been valued, therapeutic innovation has been released and an investment plan has been developed in new hospitals and health centres. Everything is quite different in 2018, even when some persist in denying the evidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the growing demand for finite resources must always be our main concern, in order to ensure that all citizens can get an effective and timely response to their clinical situation. Between 2016 and 2017, public current expenditure increased more than private current expenditure, thereby reinforcing its relative importance in the financing of the health system. The spending of families decreased, the state's spending increased, the public component of expenditure increased while the private component decreased and public participation in medicines also increased. Mrs. Members, these are indicators which, together with data from the Access Report and the Social Report, unequivocally mean more access, more resources, more public funding and more SNS. More SNS in coverage and provision, because, for example, in 2017, 685 000 surgeries were recorded, plus 20 000 in 2016 ; 493 000 consultations in the area of oncology, plus 10 000 in 2016 ; 30 million consultations in USF (family health units) and UCSP (custom health care unit), plus 4, 2 % more than in 2016 ; 83, 2 % of the average response times guaranteed for first consultations in the SNS ; and 500 000 Portuguese with a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u150	MoreNS for the high skills it has and demonstrates when developing international partnerships and inserts itself into the most advanced circuits of clinical research, which is an example, as Mr. Minister mentioned earlier, that Portugal is hosting the third leading research centre on cancer in the development of new therapies, which will be installed at the Northern Lisbon Hospital Center. MoreSN is being committed to the integration of educational and research care activities, as is the result of the approval in the past Council of Ministers of the legal regime of academic and clinical centres and pilot projects of university hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, defending the SNS is defending those who don't have time and those who don't have voice. Defending the SNS is reaffirming the law of the National Health Service and its foundational pillars. Defending the SNS is protecting it from the aggressions some in recent times have tried to subject it. Defending the SNS is reaffirming it at every moment and at every opportunity, ensuring its sustainability and assuming the reform and modernization of its organization and management, in order to make it more effective and more efficient. This is our commitment, the commitment of the Socialist Party and the way in which we are not willing to give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u151	Since the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mr António Sales, it has the floor for an intervention Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service should be built every day, with political decisions that strengthen it day by day. It is not enough to bring the SNS as a pin in the pen and then not invest what needs to invest, nor is it enough to say that it is intended to reconcile professionals with the state and then turn their backs on them, refuse to negotiate and not hire in sufficient numbers. A clear commitment is needed with the National Health Service. It is not with public-private partnerships, it is not with lobbies, it is with the National Health Service, i.e. users and professionals. the PSD and CDS-PP remains only the opportunistic position of those who, being against the SNS, use it instrumentally for political debate, knowing that they defend today, as yesterday, the increase in the workload associated with wage cuts, knowing that they see it today, as yesterday, as a fat that the state should not bear. The lack of measures is highlighted by the Government of the Socialist Party. Let's see: the Left Block has long been alerting for a problem that affects the entire SNS, the non-authorized hiring of professionals that replace those who are absent, by bass or license. At the state budget, we proposed that the SNS institutions should have autonomy for recruitment, but the PSD, with a generous abstention, joined the PS to bring this proposal down. We have long been alerting for the need for more investment in the SNS. The equipment is obsolete, the public units have lost response capacity, the users are increasingly referred to private. We proposed the creation of a multi-annual investment plan for the SNS, but it deserved the votes against the PS and PSD, together again. We have repeatedly defended and proposed the opening of faster competitions for the hiring of newly-specialist doctors and we have proposed the increase in the number of vacancies for training, the non-expenditure of doctors who want to specialize and fail to do so, but in the parliamentary assessment we presented to amend the new medical boarding system, the PS, the PSD and the CDS have joined together to prevent the formation of more specialist doctors. More: immediate hiring of 6,000 professionals is necessary: nurses, operational assistants, technical assistants, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, superior health technicians. These are the needs of hospitals and health centres. These are the needs that health units raised and brought to the Ministry of Health. It is not only the opinion of professional orders, it is not only the opinion of unions, it is the opinion of the health units of the National Health Service. The fault is not 35 hours' work, it is the government's fault, which did not hire who should hire. It is not the fault of the professionals who are over-burdened, worn-out, who do follow shifts, who have hundreds of hours in stock and who deserve time to rest, that it is the one who thinks that responding by 40% or 50% to the needs of the institutions is enough. And it's not! This means that the institutions would have to lower their response, and that is not admissible. The solution, which should have been planned and implemented, is the hiring of more professionals, and the Minister should say here that if 2000 professionals are insufficient, then the recruitment of 6000, which are necessary. And don't tell us that it's not possible to invest in professionals because of IP3, don't come to us with the IP3 excuse again, because it's not true, because we don't believe in that excuse! Do you have to make choices? Yes, it's true, we have to make choices, but IP3 doesn't fit these choices. If you've never missed money for public-private partnerships and to save banks, then why would you lack money for public investment? Do you have to make choices? Let's do it! The public-private health partnerships, which the government wants to maintain, and invest in, are the product of economic growth in the National Health Service, instead of this obstinate idea of reducing 0, 4 percentage points of the deficit! When the government chose to obstinate the deficit, it made a choice, but it was a choice not to invest in the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u153	When you don't invest in the National Health Service, when you don't hire enough professionals, what happens? We pay more to have a worse SNS! I suppose that's not what we want, or is it, Minister? In 2017, it increased 52 % — 52 % — the number of users operated in conventional hospitals, that is, it brutally increased the number of users that the SNS failed to operate and that it referred to private hospitals. In 2017, expenditure with additional means of diagnosis and conventional therapy increased by 2, 3 % to 450 million euros; expenditure with conventional haemodialysis rose to 275 million euros; spending with colonoscopy in the conventions increased by 9 % — this is the result of non-contracting and non-investment! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Money is there, but he's running away to the private when he should be in the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, there are those who have advised in recent days to avoid isolation and the Minister and the Socialist Party should pay attention to these advice. It is that those who are not with the National Health Service are isolated from the country; and stay away from users, professionals and populations is to stay in isolation. Doctors await serious negotiations with regard to faster contracts for the SNS, the reduction of urgency time so that they have more time for consultations and specialized surgeries, the reduction of the number of users per family doctor so that they have more time to accompany their users, but the Government does not propose anything in this regard. Isolation! Senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians do not want to be expelled to the private, want a career in the SNS, but the government wants them to abdicate from all their time of service and requires almost all of them to stay at the base of the career. Isolation! Nursing professionals report that they are losing professionals, that institutions are not hiring, that there are obvious losses to users, but the government does not respond. Isolation! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, more than 6000 professionals are needed immediately, more public investment is needed in the National Health Service, the autonomy of the institutions is needed to contract, the number of doctors to specialize needs to be increased, the competitions for the hiring of the 1079 doctors who finished their training in April.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u155	Don't do this is to be isolated, it's to stay on the back of the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u156	The Bureau does not record the registration of any Member to request clarification, so it has the floor for an intervention, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretarys: I begin by saying that I am off to see that Mr. Minister today, in contrast to our debate yesterday, is more calm, which allows us to have a more serene debate here about the National Health Service. I also begin by congratulating you on today's HIV/AIDS event, as all efforts are needed. We're going to have to discuss some numbers, but we're going to have a chance to discuss that. Today, Mr. Minister leaves us here a very important message about Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) in response to the Democratic Social Party, by making it clear that there are two red lines that we subscribe to: what is the public interest, from the point of view of safety and quality, and what is the interest of professionals. Now, knowing that 99 % of the professionals do not want to go to port, knowing that the Directorate-General of Health puts in the report, in writing, that there is a risk of disruption of the mission and public health risks due to relocation, it becomes clear that the government will not do so and that it leaves the message, from the Assembly of the Republic, to the President of the City of Porto, Rui Moreira, that Infarmed will not relocate to the city of Porto. A message that remains here, today, in a certain way, announced. Another important message comes from the left. In fact, what has become clear—and the Government's Annual Access Report on Access to SNS, makes it clear that there are difficulties in access—is that Portuguese feel delays in access to hospital consultation, delays in access to surgery. The numbers are clear: there has been a worsening in terms of waiting time in 20 000 surgeries, a violation of the maximum guaranteed response times, and this, yes, pushes people to the private. So, with the PCP, the Left Block and PS in power, the number of private insurances reached the peak record in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u158	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u159	It is very curious that the only hospital that this government will apparently launch is a public-private partnership! Imagine...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u160	Partnership! Partnership!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u161	... imagine, with the support of the Left Block and the PCP! Finally, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u162	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u163	I'm done right now. Mr. Minister asked the Ministers. Members to read the Social Report, and we did it. In 2016, Mr. Minister had said that he would reduce the use of companies providing medical services—so the precarious use of medical services, such private care—to residual levels and yesterday in the debate said that this had been reduced from 2016 to 2017. It's amazing! The report states that the total costs incurred with the hiring of medical activities under private services arrangements amounted to EUR 98 million, which represents a global increase compared to the previous year! [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr Minister, EUR 98 million, i.e. an increase over the previous year - is it residual or is it this year that will reduce and end the provision of services? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u164	What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u165	Mr Luís Graça, of the Socialist Party, now speaks also for one intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State and Mr. State Secretaries : We have heard Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite and certainly have a problem, because we do not know if this position taken today by the PSD bench is supported by the PSD leader. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u167	You have to validate the position first!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u168	We received the Oscar from Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, but we deduced that it is made of the same material as that watch by Minister Paulo Portas, who announced the exit of the troika and then stopped due to lack of batteries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate marks a very strong and very clear frontier between the PS and the PSD, which has invested in public services, has lowered salaries, has cut pensions, has not hired professionals, has encouraged doctors and nurses to emigration, has not renewed equipment, has closed public health services and now makes the individual case, the news of the day, the insufficiency of this and that service, the whole of its political program for health, confusing the tree with the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u169	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u170	There is a need, Mr Minister, for the right to parliament, for the retroview which Mrs Cristas has intended to offer to the Government. Otherwise, we see: PSD and CDS cut EUR 1000 million in the budget of the National Health Service ; EUR 1000 million less, between 2011 and 2015. On the other hand, the PS Government has so far restored 70% of the right-wing cut, plus EUR 700 million! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The right-wing government has increased moderate rates by making it difficult for Portuguese to access SNS, the PS government has reduced these same moderate rates by 25 %, created the SNS Portal, increasing transparency up to the numbers, which you are partially quoting today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u172	If, between 2011 and 2015, the right has closed public health services, has closed emergency services, has abandoned health poles in the interior parish, the PS government, on the contrary, has reopened public services, has opened new family health units—will open 100 new family health units until the end of the current legislation—,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... launched construction and recovery works at 113 health centers and decided — decided, yes, and well! — invest in the construction of 4 new hospitals. I am proud to be part of a government that invests and builds hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u173	What about the Algarve hospital? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u174	You guys didn't build hospitals! Not one! What I want to say here is that I hope that the government will also build the central hospital of the Algarve, in the course of the next Community support framework. You do not have any hospitals to present to you in the four and a half years in which you were part of the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u175	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u176	The PS government has begun regularizing the situation of precarious workers, we are introducing the 35 hours a week, which you unilaterally passed to 40, we hired more health professionals, more 2000 doctors, more 2900 nurses, plus 7400 new health professionals in the SNS. This debate clearly marks a line of separation between the Socialist Party and the right: where you have cut, we reject; where you have disinvested, we invest. And we understand the hard game of blind goat that the ego and the alter ego of PSD make between the parliamentary group and the PSD leader.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u177	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u178	We never really know what your position is, because, indeed, you believe in the goodness of the policies of cuts and destruction they have made in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u180	They have no courage to tell the Portuguese that they would do it again, if they had a chance again! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u181	Just demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u182	I should like to conclude by saying that this debate also highlights differences between the Socialist Party and the Parliamentary left. Because if it is true that there is no SNS without workers, no more workers, we cannot hide everything that has already been done, much that has been done in these three and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u183	What about the Algarve hospital? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u184	And we can't also hide that there won't be SNS if we don't have the public accounts in the day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u186	...there will be no good health care if we do not have the country's accounts in the day, because, at the end of all, they will always be the weakest and the public services to be paid for not having the accounts in the day. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u187	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u188	I will finish, Mr. President. The point of balance between the investment in improving the social state and the budgetary balance is not always easy, it has never been easy, but today the Portuguese know that between the policy of right-wing cuts and the many legitimate claims of the left-wing, only the Socialist Party has the virtuous ability to invest simultaneously in the quality of the SNS, without questioning the accounts of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u189	You also have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Except for the NAP — who decided not to intervene in the debate, probably because they considered other priorities — all parliamentary groups spoke on health issues and realized that, Minister, it is not because someone is going to be arrested. when we hear the speeches of the various parliamentary groups represented in the Assembly of the Republic, we would say that they all defend the SNS. Of course, those who still remember what the previous government, the PSD and the CDS did — who left patients with hepatitis C literally to die because of lack of drugs and who forced hospitals to cheat on towels and garbage bags — realize that the problem is not speech, it is practice, Minister. The problem of defense of SNS is the problem of practice, because practice is the criterion of truth! Mr Minister, I would like to say the following: the interventions made by the CFP Parliamentary Group have made clear the path we have outlined as the way forward. This path has to be the strengthening of the SNS' response capacity to the needs of users' health care, and it also has to stop the health business that today is contributing to the degradation of the National Health Service and the difficulties that the Portuguese face in access to health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u192	Mr Minister, the Government has all the tools it needs to give the answer it needs to give — in particular by strengthening the capacity of the SNS and blocking the health business — it has all the budgetary instruments of health policy, all the instruments! Only because of lack of political will is that the government will not take the necessary solutions to defend the SNS! Mr Minister, we do not have to invent the powder, nor do we have to invent the wheel, because they have both been invented. It is necessary to hire health professionals, because they need them, because there are other professionals who are worn out because they are overworked; it is necessary to carry out the careers that are approved; it is necessary to respect the working conditions of health professionals, ensuring that they provide quality health care; it is necessary to prevent SNS units from quarreling with one another, some paying more than others, because they may, while others complain that they are discriminated against, but all the thanks of the workers' hire companies with whom they continue to hire, especially doctors; it is necessary to invest in the SNS equipment so that they do not have to resort to external procurement, which drains the financial resources of the State that should be allocated to public services; it is necessary to invest in the equipment so that it is not...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u193	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u194	I conclude, Mr. President. We need to invest in infrastructures so that we can do the surgeries, the consultations, the services, the emergencies, which are no longer done because of the lack of adequate infrastructure. Mr Minister, it is necessary to ensure in this Parliament that the construction processes of the Sixal and Évora hospitals are advanced, that attention should be paid to the issue of the Algarve hospital at the second stage of the Beja hospital. And let me tell you something in particular about the hospital in Évora, Minister : to announce that, by the end of the year, the international competition will be launched means delaying the relevant decisions regarding its construction to the next legislature. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u195	This international competition must be launched in the coming months, so that, even in this legislature, the necessary measures and decisions are taken for the construction of that hospital. Therefore, Minister of Health, what is clear is that on the PCP side the path is not the path of backwardness, the way is not to stop the development and the investment that needs to be made in the SNS. We recognize that the damage that has been caused...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u196	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u197	I conclude, Mr. President. We recognize that the damage that has been caused to the SNS does not recover overnight, but we need to move ahead more decisively, making choices that prioritize the SNS and not other criteria, such as the balance of the budgetary targets, which are imposed on us by the European Union. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the closing stage. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider it an imperative to defend the National Health Service and, therefore, we have today, in good time, marked this appeal to the Government, in which all parliamentary groups had the opportunity to mark their views and where the difference was marked. The National Health Service has been subject to chronic underfunding. The disinvestment of successive governments has an impact on practical reality, particularly in what can be considered a visible degradation of the National Health Service. The former government, PSD / CDS, also had particular and heavy responsibilities: they greatly reduced the number of workers. Only with this government, PSD / CDS, the National Health Service lost more than 7000 workers. And they greatly exploited health workers, "enterprised" hospitals, promoted the transfer of patients and resources to private people in the field of health, closed services and valences, reduced funding, removing more than EUR 1000 million from the National Health Service. over several years, with these policies, structural problems have been created for primary health care with absolutely insufficient answers: 700 000 users are still without a family doctor; we have saturated emergencies; the waiting times for consultations and surgeries are absolutely unbearable — in ophthalmology, the average waiting time is, appreciably, six months and there are cases in which it exceeds two years, which is absolutely unqualifying; we have patients hospitalized under very precarious conditions; we have deficiencies in home care, continuous care and palliative care; we have a notorious lack of beds. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this de-investment degradation or lack of sufficient funding in the public service, is a good business dose for the private sector. Public-private partnerships ( PPPs ) in the field of health have also had quite visible consequences: the funds that should be invested in improving the National Health Service are being channelled to pay income and profits to the private. Spending more than 470 million euros per year in PPP in the health area is a charge that the country is not in a position to bear! And spending 3, 5 billion euros in a year in PPP, in conventional schemes, in contracting services says a lot about how funding for the private sector is being channelled rather than being invested in the National Health Service! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this value were to be added, which refers to the approximately EUR 9 billion allocated by the State budget to the National Health Service, would make it appropriate — a very substantial difference in the ability to carry out in the National Health Service: to hire more staff, to equip establishments, to strengthen services and valences, to make the necessary investments. But in view of this reality, what does the government do? Being able to end the PPPs, given the end of their deadline, extends these PPPs for more than a few years, such as, for example, in Cascais and Braga and how it may happen in Vila Franca de Xira and Loures, if you do not put a brake on this absolutely harmful logic for the public health service and absolutely wonderful for the private and for the negotiation in the area of health. We, The Greens, clearly distance ourselves from this option of the government of benefit to the private sector and consider that this option, in fact, harms the National Health Service. There is a need for more professionals in the National Health Service: more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, more technical assistants, more operational assistants. There is one thing that needs to be emphasized: without staff, without sufficient workers, the proper functioning of public services is not guaranteed. This is an unbreakable truth! And, Mr Minister, we have received complaints here, in the Assembly of the Republic, not on time, from some areas of the country: hospital units of the Guard, of the Alentejo coast, of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, of the Algarve, of the Port, of Tondela, of Viseu, of the North Alentejo, of Coimbra, of Évora, of Barcelos, of Setúbal... Mr Minister, this is a reality of difficulties that fats all over the country! This is not about occasional difficulties, but about general problems. More investment is therefore needed to give the necessary answers and that is why the Greens, here in this forum today, say: the next State Budget has to strengthen investment in the National Health Service! The Greens will fight for this to happen, The Greens will fight for this State Budget to reinforce the responses to the National Health Service. Finally, in response to what Mr PS said about the public accounts, I also want to say, clearly, one thing: there will be more investment capacity if you are not obsessed with the deficit. Look at the people, don't look at the numbers! We'll get them for that. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u200	To close the debate, Mr Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the debate of an appeal to the Government on the National Health Service, it became clear in this Chamber how the different parliamentary groups and the different political forces are organized. On the left, we identify differences, different ways of rhythm and intensity, but we have positions that are based on strategic ideas and thoughts; on the right, we see the absence of ideas and strategic thinking, the ideas to be replaced by accessories, by what is called the graphic action, which tends, above all, to draw the attention of a few seconds in the evening televisions. We therefore have a political debate for a debate of moments. And, notice, it is not by any chance that, in an interview with the National Health Service, the largest party in the opposition spends more than half of their time discussing the relocation of a public institute to the Port and the position of the president of the Port House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This clearly reveals the concern of the greater party in the opposition, which, in the absence of a political agenda and a concrete idea about the health system — no doubt! — criticises the initiative of a public-private partnership for the Eastern Lisbon hospital, which is a purely institutional partnership, construction and equipment. With regard to all this, what is important to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? We have always said, and we continue to say it three years ago, that this path is a trajectory, it is a path, that speed and intensity is the one that governs assumes that it is possible. I do not believe, as I said recently, in a strong social state with a weak economy. I don't believe in debt cycles that repeat and generate in expective people who get frustrated. That is why political responsibility demands of all, of those who defend the SNS and of those who do not have a policy based in fact diverse or on plastic accessories, that the ideas are not plastic. The ideas are built by political thought, by those who, like us, are heirs of the founder of the SNS, of the party that founded the SNS and who voted favourably for its creation in 1979. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia was told that she received a lot of complaints. Of course, Mrs Deputies, we are well aware that, despite SNS performing 300 000 episodes a day, there are many Portuguese people who still do not have the minimum guaranteed satisfaction, there are many Portuguese people who do not have access to second-choice conditions, because they do not have health insurance, because they do not have ADSE or because they do not have economic resources. We are well aware that the road that is missing is the most important path and that the 2019 budget will find the time, space and opportunity to find ourselves in an idea that deepens, consolidates and makes it, in fact, the political idea that we have and, in many respects, is shared, a political idea for the future. We do not defend the SNS because of blackouts of consciousness like some who, having done what they did in a sensitive period because the country went through which they could have made different choices and different political options, did what they like: the thought that the Portuguese have to work more because yes; that idea that working 35 hours a week is not the recognition of the workers' efforts, it is just an illegitimate benefit; that idea that the solution to health policies is the cut. We did not cut the axe, we did not cut it without criteria; on the contrary, we uncut it. The Portuguese understand well that politics based on falsehood, irresponsibility and lies always leads to bad results. It is better to talk in our eyes here and take our differences with those who think about the health system and the SNS with ways that can be, even in some respects, complementary, than we are making the political discussion an exercise of events. That doesn't serve the country. It remains the commitment, before the Portuguese, that the trajectory initiated in 2015 will be consolidated. More human resources are needed and more investment is needed, and we are sure that we are launching the biggest wave of hospitals and health centers that there is memory in the history of the SNS and that all hospitals in the country today have a small, medium or large investment process. Enough? That's not enough! When you stopped 1000 million in the investment and current expenditure, when you stopped the investment, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, not 10 years will be enough to meet a modern and efficient SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is one thing that is certain—it is the best honour that can be done to health workers: to highlight the results that have been released today, by the INE, about the HIV-AIDS objectives, the results of communicable diseases, non-communicable diseases, the reversal of the spending trend, which, in fact, the right parties ignore in an ostensively manner. This is the result not so much of the political action of governments, because governments are, by democratic nature, transitional. It is the result of the work of 137 thousand people who, every day, in the front line, under difficult conditions, do what they can in conditions that are often very demanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't do political demagogy. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, isolation is not isolation with a part of the country. The worst thing a government or a political majority can do is to isolate themselves from the country as a whole, because it is not those who have more voice or capacity to ask that they should be favored in relation to those who have no more voice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our only concern at the end of this legislature is to be sure that we are not isolated from the country and that each of the 10 million Portuguese understand that we have done everything possible and that we do not compromise the future. Whoever happens to us has to find a better country than what we have found: a stronger, more consistent, political and ideologically sustained SNS and not an SNS to the mercy of approaches of opportunity, based on small graces or even unpleasant graces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-05.u202	With the intervention of the Minister, this debate is over. Before closing the work, I reminded the House that tomorrow we will have a particularly extensive agenda and that, as a result, the session will start at 9 a.m. of the first item on the agenda shall be an up-to-date debate required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the enhancement of the interior. We shall then proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the following diplomas: Proposal for a Law No 136 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code and its regulations and the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System ; Bill No. 608 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reinforces the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, making the 8. amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 609 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Assigns the right to 25 days of annual holidays, starting at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 647 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reimposes amounts and calculation rules in termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 797 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed( 13 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 886 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — revokes dismissal due to inadaptation and amends the system of collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction, strengthening the rights of workers ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 912 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers( 14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 728 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeal the amendments to the Labour Code introduced during the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 729 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) ( BE) — Alter the legal regime applicable to term contracts, implementing the commitments contained in the Government programme and the recommendations of the working group for the preparation of a national plan to combat precariousness, with effect from 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 730 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Repeals amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the Troika period relating to termination of the job and eliminates the figure of dismissal due to inadaptation by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE); Bill No. 902 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 903 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reverts the cuts introduced by the PSD/CDS Government on holiday days, at compensatory rest, to the increase in remuneration due to additional work and devotes to Tuesday carnival as a compulsory holiday (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 904 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Combat false temporary work and restrict the use of outsourcing and temporary work (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 905 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal on objective grounds when the employer makes compensation available to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) ; Bill No. 900 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens ) ; Bill No. 901 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The rules allowing the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed (The Greens) ; Bill No. 909 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code (The Greens) ; Bill No. 897 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognising the right to 25 working days of holiday (NAP); Bill No. 898 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). Thirdly, the joint discussion of the proposals of lein. 125 / XIII ( 3 ) will be held in general. ( a ) — Approves rules on the processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680 ; paragraph 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system; and paragraph 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the transfer by air carriers of data from passenger identification records and the processing of such data by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 681. Fourthly, law No 122 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Judiciary Judges. Fifthly, we will generally discuss draft law No 879 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the abolition of bull races in Portugal ( NAP ). Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 40 minutes.]]
