ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We will begin our agenda, which has as its first point a marking of the Left Block, with the discussion, together, in general, of the projects of lein.o 870 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Introducing new rules of transparency in the banking sector and strengthening the powers of parliamentary investigations in access to banking information ( proceeds from the forty-ninth amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and the third amendment of the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ) ( BE ), 871 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures a system for access and automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation ( BE ), 875 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the technical unit for the recovery of wealth resulting from the credits that read the national bank ( PCP ), 876 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for disclosure of information relating to the granting of high-value credits ( PCP ), 877 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Access to banking information by parliamentary committees of inquiry and transparency in respect of large unencumbered or restructured loans in financial institutions receiving support from the State for their capitalisation ( PSD ) and 836 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in public support to the financial sector ( CDS-PP ), and the proposal for law No 130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for the application of the automatic access system to financial information to residents in national territory. To begin the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today there is an idea that goes through the head of most people who have witnessed the collapse of BPN (English Business Bank ) and BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), who remember the power wars in the Millennium BCP, who saw Portugal Telecom define and the shareholders of EDP (Energy of Portugal) enrich, and that idea is that economic crime exists and is endemic in Portugal. We know that it is, because this was the form of Portuguese business and financial dynasties to develop, specializing in the extraction of guaranteed income and of the public benefit, having, on the side of the rotating door, politicians and rulers willing to sacrifice the public good for the private interest. We know that this vast web enjoyed the privilege of economic and political power, without the same duties being applied to it, particularly tax. We know that they have always hidden themselves in secret and that, too, they consider themselves to be unpunished. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to a large extent, they were unpunished.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u4	Whenever this Parliament chose to protect the banking secret, it made it difficult to fight economic crime and the offenders thanked it. This was the case when the Banco de Portugal did not use all the information it had in order to withdraw the suitability of Ricardo Salgado. When confronted with this accusation, Carlos Costa published a communiqué and explained that the facts about Salgado's income had been entrusted to him under a tax amnesty decided by the Government in 2012, the RERT III ( Exceptional Tax Regime ). In order to defend itself, the Banco de Portugal cited Article 5 ( 5 ) in that communiqué. that scheme, which I shall quote: 'under the scope of this scheme, the declaration of taxation cannot in any way be used as an indication or element relevant for the purposes of any tax, criminal or counter-ordinary procedure, and the intervening banks must remain silent on the information provided'. We must be fair, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this wording was not invented by Minister Vítor Gaspar or Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio, this writing was copied, comma by comma, of the two previous amnesties, created by José Socrates, when he was Prime Minister. over eight years, almost EUR 6 billion was washed away by these schemes and tax rates were paid between 2, 5 % and 7 %. The largest part, 3400 million, reports to the 2012 RRRT. According to statements by Paulo Nuncio, the value reached records because Portugal had signed information exchange agreements with several countries, particularly with Switzerland, which would enter into force shortly. That is, after two amnesties granted by José Socrates and before it was harder to escape the tax, the Coelho Pass government decided to grant a third pardon to those who hid money outside the country. And it wasn't just Ricardo Salgado who took advantage of it. According to public information, Zeinal Bava also did so, as well as others involved in the operation Marquês and a long list of customers of the tax fraud and money laundering network, identified in the operation Monte Branco. In this regard too, we can remember the defacety with which Hélder Bataglia described the scheme set up to hide the commission paid to ESCOM and the gang Holy Spirit for the purchase of two submarines, in the time of the government of Paulo Portas and Durão Barroso. Hidden in offshore accounts, the money would wait for the right opportunity to be regulated in better tax conditions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not only of fiscal amnesty, live the sacralization of the bank's secret in our legal system. In Portugal there are only two groups of people subject to unrestricted access to their banking information: the poor elderly, who are candidates for the solidarity supplement for the elderly, and the poor of all ages, who want the social income of inclusion. In addition, the Portuguese banks send information about non-residents to foreign authorities and here in Portugal we received information about Portuguese with accounts out there. However, unlike in many European countries, the Portuguese Tax Authority does not have automatic access to bank information for residents. In other words, the Portuguese tax does not have to cross data and check whether the tax returns correspond to the available banking information, detecting tax fraud situations. This measure has been rejected for years, alternately by the majority of PS, PSD and CDS, an error which, in fact, was very expensive to the country, as we know today. The first time the Left Block proposed the revision of the banking secrecy regime was in January 2000, when it elected its first Parliamentary Group. in these 18 years, we brought the issue to the Assembly of the Republic six more times; today is the seventh, and in good time we did it. The project that we presented resumed the Government's proposal for a more than a year ago and which, after slamming into the presidential veto, was forgotten. We therefore welcome the fact that the announcement of this agenda was sufficient for the President of the Republic to show a positive welcome and to be accompanied by proposals from the Government. We know that there are resistance and that there are fears, but for the thousandth time we repeat: there will be no indiscriminate access to bank accounts. This is only the annual mailing by the banks of the list of accounts with balances of more than €50 000. The right to personal privacy, constitutionally protected, is not threatened. The only right that is threatened is the current right to secrecy that benefits those who do not fulfil their social responsibilities and mind about their heritage and fiscal situation. But that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a right, it is abuse and cannot continue to be unpunished. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The discussion around automatic exchange of information places the permanent conflict between banking secrecy and the most basic principles of transparency and scrutiny at the heart of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has always lived well with this culture of silence and concealment, until the day you saw an opportunity in it. in its political revenge agenda, the PSD did not hesitate to put the General Deposit Box at risk. [[PSD protests.]] He opened fire to the public bank and still wanted to convince the country that its purpose was transparency. [[PSD protests.]] But it wasn't! It wasn't transparency, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD protests.]] It was not, because the impulses that led the PSD to exceptionally put the bank seal in the drawer only applied to Box and no other Portuguese bank. at the end of several months of inflamed and insistent speeches they only had to present to Parliament a misappropriation, without any legal consequences,... [[PSD protests.]] ...until that request was barbaric— imagine! — in the law of banking secrecy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Left Block was required to electively schedule a bill that reinforces the access of parliamentary investigations to banking information and that obliges the disclosure of large creditors in default in all banks, so that only then the PSD, at the latest, decides to come to the game with a legislative initiative that still excludes BPI ( Portuguese Investment Bank ), BPP ( Private Bank English ) and Millenium BCP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the last decade the Portuguese state committed EUR 30 billion in bank aid. We know that the banking crisis in Portugal has had macroeconomic causes. We know that the international collapse in 2008 dried up bank funding and that austerity, caused by the troika, caused thousands of failures. But we also know, and the crisis revealed it, that in the bank balances, and not only in the Box, they weighed ruinous credits, loans of many million euros to finance obscure businesses, from fraudulent real estate projects to shareholder control wars of large companies. The irresponsibility of the banking system, while driving these practices, was proportional to the feeling of impunity of all those involved. The culture of secrecy served to protect those who did not hesitate to place their particular interests above any prudential, ethical and even legal criteria. That is why it is right for the country to be able to know the ruinous businesses that have so damaged the economy. To this end, the Left Block proposes that this House entrust the Banco de Portugal with the legal obligation to publish information on the large claims outstanding in the last decade, of all banks which have been the target of direct or indirect intervention from the State of BPN to the General Deposit Box. But because we want to be consistent with this analysis of past mistakes, we have introduced new transparency rules: we propose that banks start to disseminate the list of their major risks in non-compliance. This information relates only to debts representing 10 % of the own funds and is essential to break the culture of secrecy and encourage careful practices in granting millionaire credits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u6	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is not one measure alone that guarantees transparency and the fight against tax fraud, but there are new proposals, which follow the conclusions we have drawn from the bad recent experiences, and there are old proposals, such as changes to banking secrecy for automatic exchange of information, for which we have been waiting for at least two decades. If both of them are approved today, Parliament will have taken an important step in combating economic crime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u7	Madam Member, you have two requests for clarification, which are to be made by the honourable Members. Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Fernando Rocha Andrade. First of all, Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u8	Mr. President, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, this afternoon's schedule shows, once again, the bipolar behaviour of the Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u10	...and the freight that repeatedly makes the Socialist Party, God knows what. Let's get to the facts. First, in the Commission of Inquiry into the Management of the General Deposit Box, the PSD demanded to know which of those responsible for the hole generated in the public bank, which of the outstanding credits, such as the decision makers, which of the persons who made those credit decisions, which caused so many million losses in the General Deposit Box. Second : after the resistance of the public institutions to provide this information, the Court of Lisbon considered that this information should be sent to Parliament. The PS has trembled!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u11	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u12	And then the PS, with the Left Block and the PCP, closed the Commission's work so that this information would not come to the knowledge of Parliament and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u13	Third, in April this year the PSD leader makes statements, stating that public officials, and Portuguese, have the right to know who failed with the General Deposit Box, which led to more than 4 billion euros — more than 4 billion of our taxes — being put into that public bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u14	And the other 26 aren't interested?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u15	Fourth fact: soon thereafter, the PS shook and the Block makes new freight and resolves to talk about bank secrecy, in general, confusing thousands with millions. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u16	Who shook you, in 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u17	He is talking about the tax situation, but what he really wants is to cover up! [[PS protests.]] It aims to launch a smoke curtain, which takes away the attention on what was on the table: the right of all of us to know who the big defaulters are and who made the decisions to grant those credits that took EUR 4 billion from our taxes to the public bank. Madam Member, because we do not deviate 1 cm from our path, I repeat: the Portuguese have the right to know which was, in the General Deposit Box, the socialist web that...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u18	Your path always passes through the Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u19	... caused the public bank to collapse and then went to do the same for the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u21	The principle of transparency requires that one should know who the great defaulters are, what credit decisions they were and who took them. That's what's at stake today! at least once, in this Parliament, Mrs. Member, stop being the PS crutch, seeking to distract the Portuguese, and do what is required. Together, let us find the best solution to allow the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese to access the list of debtors in breach of the General Deposit Box and also those who have taken the decision to grant those credits. [[BE's protests.]] This is our provision: together, find the best solution! I hope it's yours, too. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u22	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, would like to welcome the Left Block for the scheduling, with the risk of the right-wing bench feeling that it is a matter of cruising, or whatever, and of course saying that, as regards one of the initiatives presented by the Left Block, there will be no great doubt about the position of the Socialist Party. The initiative is substantially identical to one that, just over a year ago, I had the opportunity, myself, in other functions, to present in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We had the opportunity to vote in favour, which, curiously at the time, seemed to be, in the PSD's words, the worst thing that had happened to Western civilization, since, at least, Atila, Huno, but now was absent from the questions put. [[All right!]] [[Rice from the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u24	I said that this legislation continues to be justified today, as it was justified at the time, but let me tell you, Mrs Member, that it seems to me that your appreciation of what has been done is not entirely fair. I recognize that the affection of the Portuguese law for banking secrecy is a deep and old affection, but it is true that in this Parliament it has already been achieved in 2010 by means of a proposal from a Member who is behind me, to allow the Public Prosecutor's Office to have access to data in bank secrecy itself, which is, in fact, allowing many of the data that Mrs Deputy mentioned there to be from the knowledge of whoever she is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u26	I forgot to say that this measure, at the time, did not have the right-wing seats. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u27	They were distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u28	Just as in this Parliament, and with this parliamentary majority, it was also possible that, in parallel, if it approved legislation within the meaning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it would have, by its own accord, access to data in tax secrecy. Now, these two important research measures allow us to follow suspicions that exist. The extent to which we are discussing today is fundamental because it enables us to detect the targets of the investigation, allows us to understand what are the great wealth variations that have not been reported to the tax and which, therefore, should be investigated. In view of the fact that this is a system that we agree is in force in tens of countries in the world and Portugal for Portuguese immigrants who account for Portugal, for the citizens of some countries who reside here and take account of, and is in force by international instruments that deserve widespread approval, it would be strange if we found that they were unbearable duties for the other citizens. On the second question, of the second draft law presented by the Left Block today, I must say, Mrs Deputies, that the PS is perfectly available to work in the specialty, in that there is a balanced solution for the various projects here under discussion that solves two issues: firstly, the question of the access of parliamentary committees of inquiry to data in banking secrecy and also, and perhaps this will be the most complex, given the existence of Community legislation that financial institutions have to comply with, the public disclosure of situations of high value defaults in those banks that have received public support. But, Mrs. Member, it seems fundamental to me that no one wants to prevent access to the data from the Box, but there are those who want only access to the data from the Box! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u29	There was an inquiry committee! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u30	On the contrary, the Socialist Party will not object to the fact that there is access to data from the General Deposit Box provided that under the same conditions as legally available access to data from all other institutions that have received public support. This is because otherwise it is to isolate the General Deposit Box and undermine its conditions of competition in the banking market, without any justification, since the billions that the recapitalisation of the Bank cost are not different from the other billions that successive governments had to put on the rescue of the financial sector in other institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u31	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u32	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, between 2000 and 2009, the PSD voted against all the proposals that the Block brought here, or at least did not allow them to pass on changes to bank secrecy. In 2011 the PSD abstained in the small amendment that allowed it to investigate all the economic crimes it now uses, including, to make political guerrillas. This amendment allowed the Public Prosecutor's Office to have access to bank account data on a proposal from Mr Filipe Neto Brandão. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] In 2012 the PSD approved a fiscal amnesty that was equal to the two fiscal amnesties that José Socrates approved, with a difference: neither was it necessary to return the money to Portugal, he could stay abroad. It was a fiscal amnesty that actually protected Ricardo Salgado and other people who transferred the money to the country. In 2016, the PSD was against the proposal to investigate tax fraud crimes, facilitating the meeting between the Tax Authority, tax returns and bank accounts. Mrs. Members, the PSD has never been interested in promoting transparency and scrutiny on tax fraud or increasing the chances of investigation into economic crime until I repeat, until I find in the General Deposit Box a good way not only to attack the public bank, but also to make political guerrillas. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members, the PSD wants to know, as Mr. Duarte Pacheco said, the socialist web that dominated the General Deposit Box, and so do we! We also want to know the socialist web that dominated the General Deposit Box
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u33	But they've closed the commission of inquiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u34	But in addition, we want to know the social-democrat web that dominated, for example, BPN. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] We want to know the social-democrat web that dominated several other banks, and not just the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u35	They don't care! [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u36	What bothers the PSD, Mr... The Left Block brings three projects to debate, one, to resume the banking secrecy regime and automatic exchange of information, another, to strengthen the powers of the commission of inquiry and, two, to disclose credit data in breach of all banks: from BPN to Caixa, from BANIF to BCP, BPI... Of all the banks! Therefore, what bothers the PSD is not that the Block wants to protect the Box, because the Block is not protecting the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u37	Oh, no? Oh, my God! You've closed the commission of inquiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u38	What bothers the PSD is that the Block does not enter the guerrilla that the PSD tried to do and create against the General Deposit Box, protecting itself and the involvements that the PSD itself has with the Portuguese bank. And that, sir, we are not going to do. We want clear rules, transparency for all, to increase the fight against economic crime in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u39	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic is intended to make it compulsory for the financial institutions to report it to the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ) on 31 December each year of bank balances and financial applications of more than € 50 000 and of which they are holders or beneficiaries resident in national territory, whether national or foreign. It is therefore necessary to extend to residents in Portugal, whether or not they are nationals, the same obligation to report to the AT which already affects the Portuguese financial institutions for foreign tax administrations vis-à-vis residents in the same foreign States and which have open accounts and financial applications in Portugal. In this way, we close the legislative initiative of the Government which culminated in the publication of Decree-Law No 64 / 2016 and aligns Portugal with international recommendations on access and automatic exchange of financial information. Let me stress the importance of cross-border mechanisms adopted by the European Union by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and bilaterally with the United States in the field of access and automatic exchange of financial information. These initiatives stem from DAC2 ( Council Directive 2014 / 107 / EU of 9 December 2014 ), CRS ( Common Reporting Standard ) and FATCA ( Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ), which Portugal adopted in its legal order through the Law Decree I have already referred to, and which constitute essential and necessary mechanisms to combat fraud and tax evasion and other illegal practices such as money laundering or terrorist financing. It is good to remember, as has already been said today, that, in accordance with the amendment of the General Tax Law, which we approved in this House last year, financial information is now being reported to the Tax Authority and is also available to the judicial authorities. These authorities can now, pursuant to this amendment, directly access financial information through access to AT databases as this is permitted for purposes of judicial proceedings, including investigations into criminal proceedings. The knowledge of the financial heritage of taxpayers is therefore extremely important for the detection of risk situations of tax evasion, but also for the fight against money laundering or the financing of terrorism, as has been reaffirmed by the international community, most recently at the Paris Summit, held last month in the OECD and promoted by the French Government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the Government's point of view, there is no justification for the fact that the financial institutions to be operated in Portugal do not have the same reporting obligations with the Tax Authority that they already have for other foreign tax administrations and whose residents have financial accounts or applications in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u42	In other words, if we accept automatic access to financial information between States for the international dimension as an effective measure to combat fraud and tax evasion, we do not believe that these same arguments cannot also be applied internally to the same reality and for the same purpose. I would also like to make it clear that in this discussion, from my point of view, there is no argument, which I have already heard in the public area, that we are putting under suspicion all those who have financial balances or applications greater than €50 000. This argument reverses the order of things and part of the assumption that it would be underlying this measure the principle, that it would be wrong, that the purposes would justify the means, even though they might appear to be disproportionate. Indeed, the report to the AT of bank balances or financial applications of more than €50 000 does not in itself entail any presumption of dishonesty in respect of holders or beneficiaries. The information transmitted to the AT on bank balances and financial applications of more than €50 000 does not apply on its own, before it integrates into a data cross-border strategy, with different origins, which enables us, from a risk assessment matrix, to identify situations of potential non-compliance — underlining, of potential non-compliance — which must subsequently be verified. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the simple communication of the bank balance and financial applications of more than €50 000 and not of banking movements. Those who question this obligation to report perhaps may be forgetting how the General Tax Law already deals with car ownership situations worth more than €50 000 or recreational boats worth more than €25 000. according to the law, and this is not disputed by anyone, the simple property of these goods — cars and high-value recreational boats — does not place your owner under any suspicion. The question may arise is whether such ownership does not correspond to declared incomes that are compatible. in the field of bank balances and financial applications, we are at exactly the same level: being a holder or beneficiary of bank balances or financial applications over €50 000 does not place anyone under suspicion. The only question that may raise doubts about the authorities, and which I think is legitimate, is whether these bank balances or financial applications do not correspond to reported incomes that are compatible. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report to the AT ( Tax Authority ) by the financial institutions of bank balances and financial applications on 31 December does not constitute any firewall of private life. It is important to make it clear that under no circumstances does AT gain access to the banking movements of citizens whose balance is reported by their bank. It is not worth trying to exploit primary feelings by waving any bigbrother tax that does not exist or is intended to exist. I repeat: there is no communication to the Tax Authority on banking movements, so there is no sharing of information about restaurants that taxpayers frequent, shops where they buy consumer goods or service providers they use. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The communication of bank balances is always made by reference to 31 December, whether domestically or internationally. With reference to the same date, we have in the financial system the response to the location of money in almost all the world, and this information is the balance, which is available in this whole, vast, universe of jurisdictions, now more than a hundred, which also include the so-called "tax havens", information that, by not devaluing the lives of each one, allows a financial system less permeable to illicit phenomena and corresponds to a powerful instrument for combating fraud and tax evasion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I have said and repeated that the fight against tax fraud and avoidance is a plan from all over the country and not an exclusive from any government, in particular. The Government has a very clear approach in this area, favouring the exchange and sharing of information as an effective mechanism, which, on the one hand, has a deterrent effect of irregular behaviors leading to voluntary compliance, and, on the other hand, allows to identify potential irregular situations and to act accordingly. The approval of this bill by the Assembly of the Republic thus constitutes the finalisation and consolidation of the mechanism for access and automatic exchange of financial information approved by the Government in 2016 in the use of the legislative authorisation given by the Assembly of the Republic. The country is becoming more and more sure that this is really the right way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u43	Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Affairs, the Bureau has three entries from Mr. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Secretary of State? Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Affairs: — I shall reply as a whole, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u44	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u45	Mr President, Secretary of State for Civil Affairs, for a long time the Left Block has been fighting for the approval of a law allowing tax access to bank information. We understand that this is an obvious and essential measure, if we want to take seriously the fight against fraud and money laundering. We therefore support the Government from the very first time it was willing to create this regime — which was presented by Mr Andrade now — by taking advantage of the existing international agreements, which required Portugal to exchange information on non-resident citizens. Support for this regime was not unanimous, it also deserved strong opposition by the PSD and the CDS at the time, and it also deserved the veto of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u47	It wasn't the same thing. It wasn't the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u48	at that time, we informed the government that we had our vote and our support to overcome the presidential veto. That was not the government's choice and the measure was stopped for almost two years. It was two years, taking into account all the delay in its application if it is now approved, in which time was lost in combating fraud and tax evasion. The Block has decided, therefore, to schedule it. We understand that it was already the time for this measure, as proposed by the Government almost two years ago, to return to the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, I would obviously like to congratulate the Government for accompanying the Bloc on this schedule with the presentation of a bill that generally goes in the same direction, even because the bill that the Left Block presents was already in the same direction as the original proposal of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, with the entry into force of this law, the tax will be given access to information on balances of thousands of bank accounts and will have access to that information only once, since these balances report all on 31 December of the previous year. Therefore, the very clear question I ask you is whether the Tax Authority has the means to deal with all the information it will receive so as to be able to detect, at the outset, with this new access to information, cases of tax fraud and tax evasion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u49	It is the time of Mrs Inês Domingos from the PSD to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Fical Affairs, today's debate is little more than a stagnation, an attempt by the government to bleach on what was in fact a web of insidious socialist interests that spread in Portuguese society between 2005 and 2011. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State has now taken out of the drawer a diploma with a year and a half, for what? To divert a debate on transparency from large claims into non-compliance and transform it into a debate on a tax relationship. Mr. Secretary of State uses depositors and customers who are custodians as a kind of human shield to cover the great non-compstors. Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the proposal from the Government, we follow the reservations of the President of the Republic, in particular that this enlargement to Portuguese and other residents is not imposed by any external commitment, that there are many situations in which the Tax and Customs Authority can access information covered by the bank seal without judicial authorization and also that the National Data Protection Commission has questioned the conformity of this new regime, in particular with regard to the constitutional principle of proportionality. Mr Secretary of State, the problem is not the citizens who work and save throughout their lives; the problem is to increase transparency in relation to the large non-compliances and what the costs were for Portuguese society. That is why we are fighting the PSD and all Members of this House should be beaten. Since the start of the first Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box which the PSD has been working in Parliament to make the greatest credit for non-compliance with the public bank. The courts gave the PSD a reason and demanded that the request be met. But perhaps that is why the socialist, blogger and communist majority rejected this possibility, causing the first Committee of Inquiry to fall. Mr President, what the PSD wants to do is raise the veil on which favors were granted by the public bank and by the banks that received public support for projects that had no viability, the exchange of what is not well known.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u51	How do you know they didn't have viability? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u52	What the government is trying to do today is an exercise of hypocrisy. But, Mr. Secretary of State, perhaps, not everything is lost to this majority, because, really, hypocrisy, they say, is a tribute that vice lends to virtue. Let's hope that's it! Mr. Secretary of State, despite his Government's efforts to divert attention, the PSD does not deviate from its path. We believe that at the end of this sad story, the Portuguese will be victorious and democracy will be strengthened and not ashamed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u53	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, banking secrecy is, and fortunately it is being debated today, a matter in which, above all, rights and needs from the public point of view need to be weighed. If, on the one hand, we have the fight against fraud and tax evasion, which is a fundamental principle of a rule of law, on the other hand, we also have the privacy and the right that citizens must not see that privacy and their lives being eroded by excessive actions by the State. The balance of these two situations is the solution that must be generated and it is good for this discussion to take place without demagogy. Normally, bank secrecy is done with extreme discussions that make one side of this balance clearly too heavy and that does not allow the final result to be positive. We understand the reason why this bill is being tabled by the Government, but we are not entirely convinced that this balance is guaranteed at the outset. He therefore asked the Secretary of State three questions. First, and objectively, about the need for this law. What, at the moment—and I ask you to give a practical case, if you can—is the Tax Authority unable to do and with this law will be able to do with the lifting of the bank seal of a taxpayer whose taxpayer the Tax Authority believes there is a legitimate suspicion of power, if any, that it has been in breach? What can't be done before the law and what can she do after it? Besides the speech, give me a practical case, please. Secondly, the proposal for a law refers to the most relevant subject matter, such as information management within the Tax Authority. We can not only proclaim in the law that this respect exists, we must ensure that this respect for taxpayers will exist, indeed. Therefore, as this is referred to for regulation, what I ask the Secretary of State for Personal Affairs is how the system will be set up to deal with this list, because it is a list, but obviously not a public list, that is not what the Government wants. How will the Government, in the Tax Authority, ensure that this information transmitted is not in any way subversively known? Third question: the use of this information. The Tax Authority will receive, for the first time, a list of taxpayers with deposits of more than €50 000. How is this information going to work? in year n + 1 and year n + 2, probably the main criterion will be the variation of these deposits and, in this case, it is easy to say that you will first see those who did not have these deposits and have them to be able to cross with the declarative history, from the fiscal point of view, these taxpayers. But at first, how will you do it? What purpose does the Government have and will forward to the Tax Authority so that this law, in addition to a proclamation made here, has any practical use? These are clear questions, in the sense that I initially put: a balance which is intended between combating fraud and tax evasion and taxpayers' rights, which cannot, in any way, be questioned only by the intents of the left-wing majority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u55	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u56	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos, I will apologize very much to you, but I will tell you that I have nothing to say to you based on what you have read. And I have nothing to say to you, because you did not present any question about the diploma you are discussing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also want to tell you clearly that Parliament deserves too much respect for me to be able to respond to statements such as that of which the Government is using compliance customers as a human shield to protect large non-compliances. I refuse to go into this debate and therefore I apologize to you, Madam Member, but I am not going to comment on your speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u57	It's Netanyahu style!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u58	Mr. João Almeida, I begin by welcoming your speech and the way in which you have explained the point of view your party defends. I will then take advantage of the opportunity to provide you with the clarifications you have requested. First of all, with regard to banking secrecy, what can AT today not do, but what can happen? What is at issue has nothing to do with a particular taxpayer. What is at stake is, at the same time and on the same day, we can have, both from the point of view of the national financial system and from the point of view of the international financial system — and today more than 100 jurisdictions have joined — the information on the bank balances that each person has anywhere in the world. In other words, to try to simplify, with this automatic mechanism—and I answer your first question—we only fail to know the money that exists in cash at people's homes, wherever. We were able to know, from the point of view of the financial system, where money is being placed worldwide.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u59	Legitimate and illegitimate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u60	So the difference is that we are not looking for a particular taxpayer. This is an integrated system, which operates on a network and exports thousands of data to all jurisdictions. As for your second question, I must say that we are not going to make any lists, nor is that list supposed to be a list, and much less public. What happens is that — and I answer the second and third questions in the same way — what is already being done today, with regard to the thousands of information we already have from an international point of view, we will do for the national. from the point of view of computer applications, we have the matching, so that we can cross what is the financial information that we now have with information on reported income, which we also have, and other kind of information. What we are doing is to place them on a database to cross the elements and, through a risk assessment matrix, to identify, from the whole sample or, if you want to call it, from the whole list, those that are the cases in which, I repeat, there may potentially be an irregularity. It is that, as I said, the fact that the list data are provided does not place any suspicions about the persons on whom the data are provided. It is provided that bank balance data, as the data on ownership are provided—and I gave the example, in my intervention, of cars and boats—and it is the crossing of these various data, from a risk assessment matrix, which allows us to select cases in which it can be verified whether there are tax evasion practices or not. On the other hand, as a result of the amendment already made in this Parliament to the General Tax Law, judicial authorities may access the tax databases directly, whether for purposes of judicial proceedings or even criminal investigations. So we are very careful how we are working on this information. The volume of information we have is increasing. We ourselves are now finishing the process of reorganization of the Tax Authority which has a more effective aspect, from the point of view of the processing of information. We hope that, with the entry into force of the law, this bill being approved, we can have for residents in national territory—and, in order not to deceive ourselves or not throw out false ideas, I would like here to underline and remind you that, when it is said that "the Portuguese are now covered" today, the banking data of a Portuguese immigrant living outside Portugal, in one of the more than 100 jurisdictions that are in agreement with Portugal, are already provided by Portugal to that same foreign jurisdiction— exactly the same rules for Portuguese residents in one of these countries. So, what we are doing, with regard to the national financial system, is that we have exactly the same rules for, as I said, having a better instrument for combating fraud and tax evasion. Finally, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would also like to thank you for your intervention and tell you that our concern to ensure that the Tributary Authority has the necessary means passes precisely by what I have just responded to Mr João Almeida. That is, we are doing the reorganization of the central services of the Tax Authority to ensure that the processing of information is done in this sense, we are developing the computer systems for the processing of that information. I would also like to recall that the first effect that this measure has is a deterrent effect that empowers the induction of voluntary compliance. Secondly, in relation to situations that may be considered, these are, yes, suspicions, we have four years to be able to identify whether the difference is real or not. I think we did well to start by creating the legal framework and now, from the point of view of administration, we must be effective. Now, the increase in tax revenue, often referred to by everyone, above the growth rate also reflects this, which is the most effective fight against fraud and tax evasion. And that's where we're working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u61	Before giving the floor to Mr Miguel Tiago, I would like to say that, as expected, there will be votes at the end of this debate, as required by the Left Block. You have the floor, Mr Miguel Tiago, of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This schedule on bank secrecy and on the communication of unpaid loans from the bank, presented in various ways—has been placed here on the table several projects on these two issues, i.e. banking secrecy and communication of bank data—, it is appropriate not only because this subject has been mentioned in recent times, but also because, if we find, mainly over the last decade, several have been the cases in which Portuguese have been confronted by successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS with intervention situations in the bank, without even understanding what the debtors are at the origin of the banking problems. We know — the committees of inquiry have shown us — that, in most cases, debtors are the bank's own owners, they are the major shareholders themselves, they are the economic groups where each of the banks joined. Therefore, the CFP, since the PPN's commission of inquiry in 2009, argues that the State, when it intervenes in a bank, should also safeguard its capital position in the institution that will result from that intervention, and for that reason must nationalise the entire economic group that joined the Bank. This position of the PCP has never been supported by the PSD and CDS, nor by the PS. And we recall that there was again a similar situation in the BES case, in which the PCP once again proposed that all the assets of the Espírito Santo Group should be immobilized and that a heritage should be defined which could be called upon to enter to cover the losses of the State in the resolution of the Banco Espírito Santo. The option, both in one case — BPN — and in the other — BES — was only to save the large bank debtors, to save those who took the two banking institutions to the bottom. It is strange now this concern of the PSD around the Box, when we remember very well that in the case of BPN, it rejected even any possibility of seeking resources to those who had stayed with the resources, which was the Lusa Business Society ( SLN ). SLN, holder of BPN, was not called in 1 cent to participate in the losses that the State had with BPN, losses, these, curiously well above those that the State has with the General Deposit Box, if it is possible to say that the State has some loss with the General Deposit Box. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many doubts about what the PSD and the CDS here have been saying, that Box has been the target of public aid. in fact, the cashier was capitalised by its shareholder, the cashier was also subject to a restructuring plan imposed by Brussels which determines that there cannot be considered as public aid. Therefore, the Box was freely capitalized by its shareholder or, better, it was conditionally—but it was! — capitalised by its shareholder, which is the State. We cannot allow the State, as a shareholder of a company, to have no freedom in the way that this company capitalizes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u64	Mrs. Members, the CFP, immediately after the BES Committee of Inquiry, proposed that a technical unit, technical unit, be constituted, composed of tax, law and economic crime specialists and specialists in the fight against money laundering, in order to determine the destination of credits and other financial flows that have damaged the institution. We remember this money that came out of BES and that went to accounts in offshore, often from the Holy Spirit family, sometimes from friends. We remember all of the credits that came out of here for Angola, some of which were even identified. We remember that companies of the Holy Spirit, such as ESCOM, ESCOM, that of the submarines, which was after all a company carrying goods in Angola and that it was the same company that, by the way, was an expert in submarines, received EUR 230 million from BES. So in some cases, we even knew where the money was going. But the PCP proposed that this universe be delimited, that it be known exactly who it was that it had remained with the billions of euros that came out of BES. It is clear that much of this capital was not in bank accounts, much of this capital was, for example, in the Holy Spirit Health, that the PCP also proposed to nationalize itself. But the PSD and CDS understood that it was better to let the gentlemen take what they had bought with the bank money they had stolen. In other words, the PSD and CDS paid a robbery to a bank with the resources of the State and did not allow the universe of the goods acquired with the heritage that had been stolen from the Banco Espírito Santo. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Well, that proposal comes back here today. The CFP again proposes the establishment of a technical unit to be identified this heritage perimeter so that it may be called upon to pay part of what the State has already spent on BES. But now we also call for the mission of this technical unit BPN and Banif, both banks involved in extreme situations: BPN, through a false nationalization, and Banif, through a resolution with a handover of the bank, of Borla, to Santander. The other proposal which the CFP brings here and which I present briefly is the communication of unpaid claims from the bank — whether or not intervention by the State or not, aided or not by the State, whether or not it received public loans — that of communication of its large debtors and of outstanding or unrecoverable claims. The CFP does not propose that all bank debtors be notified. We do not propose that all companies or individuals that are owed to the bank be identified. Yes, we propose that the credit that the bank recognises above a certain value, EUR 2 million, and that it recognises as lost, i.e. that they are irreversibly lost because they are dropped to the institution's accounting balance sheet, that only those credits can be considered effectively lost. It is that all other credits—for example, a credit that still today in the Box weighs negatively because it is badly damaged, because it is in breach, to which they call an NPL, a non-performing Loan—may still be on the balance sheet, may still be on the recovery stage, may still have collateral associated, may still have collateral associated, and the Box still holds this asset, still holds the liability and the asset. So that's not the credit we're interested in. We are interested to know what credit was paid to be deleted from the balance sheet. And never in any committee of inquiry, with a rare exception in Banif, in which, by chance, by mistake, a company sent here these data for a semester, only for one semester, but in no other committee were obtained this data and in no other committee other than in Box, the PSD forced to know them. This also demonstrates clearly what the objective is, what anger is this of the PSD, which we are not yet sure if it is an anger against the Box because it is public, if it is an extreme dear to others for being private. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u65	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u66	Mr President, Mr Miguel Tiago, with regard to the second project just presented to us, I have just said that the Socialist Party would be available to work in the specialization phase in a text that, in a balanced manner, would achieve the following objectives: on the one hand, access by parliamentary committees of inquiry to banking secrecy and on the other hand public disclosure of certain data on impartiality. by confronting the PCP project with that of the CDS-PP and that of the Left Block, there seems to me to be a certain difference between a very wide scope — EUR 2 million is a credit that a small or medium-sized company can have next to a bank — and those credits with a systemic dimension to the bank that may in fact have called into question its viability. I would like to ask you, Mr President, what is the availability of the Portuguese Communist Party to work in a stage of expertise to achieve this balanced solution. And if we find, as I hope you will find, a balanced way to ensure this public disclosure, that this public disclosure is effectively of those non-compliances that have been most relevant to the causes that led to public support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u67	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u68	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, first of all I would like to welcome this willingness to resolve and disseminate who are the recipients and beneficiaries of public capital injections. However, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the CFP does not propose disclosure of all outstanding claims when the credit is over EUR 2 million. It proposes disclosure only in cases where it is downgraded to the asset, where the institution refuses to charge or, in fact, in some other situation where it has been restructured. It proposes disclosure only in these cases, where there is objective loss of the value of that asset in the balance sheet. Nevertheless — of course, concerns about value are understandable — the criterion used by the CFP was precisely that of the average invoicing value of an average Portuguese company in order to maintain this requirement above that value. But on the PCP side, there is all the availability to, either around your project, or around the rest that are being discussed today, we work to reach a text that guarantees the fundamental objective of knowing who we are paying for the bank's assaults. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u69	To present the PSD bill, Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A month and two days ago, the President of the PSD, Rui Rio, called for the disclosure of the largest outstanding credits that have contributed to the use by some banks, whether public or private, of billions of euros of public support for their recapitalisation. This request was not exactly new. The parliamentary committees of inquiry of BPN and Banif received the list of debtors and the credit portfolio of those banks. In 2016, on request, and in the Commission of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box, the PSD requested the information of the largest debtors in the Box, of the losses caused, of the required guarantees and of those on the bank who made the decisions. After the Court of Auditors told the Commission of Inquiry, the authorities and the General Deposit Box that the Commission of Inquiry had the right to access information, we all remember as the left-wings — PS, PCP and Left-Block — joined together so that the Committee of Inquiry would finish in a hurry, the decision of the Court of Inquiry would not pass into trial and the information would therefore not reach Parliament. [[Protests by PS Member João Paulo Correia and PCP Member Miguel Tiago.]] Therefore, it was not a novelty—it was strange, but not a novelty! — that, in response to a new request from Rui Rio, President of the PSD, made a month ago, the Government, the Caixa and the Socialist Party have been running to repeat the refusal in the transparency of the information concerning the large defaulters. But it was also not strange that, after the PSD appeal made by Rui Rio, only the CDS immediately followed and adhered to this transparency plan, proposing disclosure of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u71	It wasn't like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u72	What happened, however, in the meantime? The web of promiscuity, corruption and abuse of power that involved the former socialist governance and some economic agents began to break down. [[PSD Applause]] Mrs. Members, it was not just the case of Piinho, Socrates or Vara. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u73	It was Miguel Macedo's...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u74	It was not only excessive income in energy, road PPPs (public-private partnerships), school park, TGV, PT destruction, attacks on social communication, independent justice and independent regulatory institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u75	It was Gold, it was the submarines...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u76	No, this web also interfered in the disastrous credit management of the General Deposit Box, by the destruction of a large Portuguese private bank and now also to the horses of the favor credit made in the General Deposit Box, by an attack on another private bank that was highly weakened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u77	It was BPN!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to political clearance and accountability — I repeat, political! — it seems that only when the Socialist Party gained a person's shame—and by now, it had won a person's shame at the same time as he was proud of his policies and way of governing! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u79	What about Loureiro Days?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u80	... only when the Socialist Party gained the shame of its former leader is that the others have been ashamed to have gone to cover, particularly in the commission of inquiry, the disastrous credit management made in the General Deposit Box in the years of that same socialist government. [[PSD applause.]] It was late, but good! It may be all a strange temporary coincidence, but it is also good that it also interests other parties now to disseminate information about the large debtors who fail to meet credit institutions who have received public support. Good! [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u81	Only PSD doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u82	If the words are consequent, we now have the opportunity to respond and satisfy the appeal made by the President of the PSD, Rui Rio, a month and two days ago,... [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] ... in the sense that such large unmet loans are known from public or private banks that received public aid from the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u83	And Ricardo Salgado?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u84	Of course, the Socialist Party continues, as a ashamed ostrich, head-on in the sand. I hope that the Left Block and the PCP are consistent in the words they have been saying. [[Protests by PS members Fernando Rocha Andrade and João Paulo Correia.]] Perhaps this is the opportunity and the possibility to tear the veil of cover, to contribute to transparency and political responsibility and to overcome the will of those who have so far wanted to prohibit what until the European Directive allows: that the committees of inquiry have access to information, including information on financial supervision and situations strictly related to the malfunction of financial institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the PSD bill, with what we propose, we do not cause a change or disruption of the bank seal for depositors, nor for customers who are compensators, nor for the millions of families who ask for their credits for housing or consumption, or for the hundreds or thousands of SMEs who have small and medium-sized funding. Don't! As for all of them, we say: there is no justification for breaking privacy, booking about your financial options and waving your confidence in the system reserve. with us there is no disturbance of secrecy for all and any institutions! It is only for those, public or private, who have received public aid from the State. [[PS protests.]] The PSD project essentially has two parts. On the one hand, it does what the Court of Auditors said, i.e. that the committees of inquiry cannot oppose, as a reason for rejecting the transmission of information, a alleged bank secrecy. We do what basically results from the Constitution. If these committees—and I quote the Constitution—have the powers of investigation of the judicial authorities themselves, it makes every sense that they cannot be invoked, as it is not against the judicial authorities, banking secrecy as a reason for refusing information. But in addition, and in addition to the committees of inquiry, we provide for limited, proportionate and justified transparency on the large outstanding claims that have finally contributed to the need for State support. Yes, we want information about public or private institutions that have received State support for the last 12 years! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u85	Looks like they want it, but no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u86	All of them! For the last 12 years! And we want it as long as the debtor has received a certain advantage because he has failed to meet or has seen his credit restructured with a loss of capital or interest or with a reduction in its value updated, provided they are large or very large debtors and provided that this debt is for credit institutions, public or private, which, also because of non-compliances that have generated capital needs, have been recapitalized and received public aid.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u87	Read the little letters!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u88	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a proportional solution, a solution that ensures that this information is transmitted by the Banco de Portugal for all banks — all banks! — public and private, which have been recapitalised in the last 12 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u89	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u90	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u91	More: Parliament must receive information not only about the credits, about the debtors, about the guarantees that have been or are not required, about the losses that have been granted or not, but also about who has granted the credit, who has made the restructuring or who has misjudged the bank guarantees. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD proposal is balanced, proportionate and requires transparency. It was good that, after the repeated appeals of the President of the PSD and after your first tactical waiting compass, perhaps, embarrassed! — they finally realized that it is important to have this transparency. But let me also tell you that we do not want and do not accept that, apart from these cases of large defaulters who have brought public aid to public or private banks in the last 12 years, depositors, compulsori bank customers, SMEs and families, they see devastated, without justification, suspicion or indication of infringement or inconformity in their tax relations, their privacy, their lives and financial options. We don't accept that! We want transparency, we want a balanced and prudent solution that helps make Portugal a more decent society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u92	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u93	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, the PSD knows - and he knows - as well as we do - that the PSD wanted to make the Commission of Inquiry a field of shooting at the General Deposit Box. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u94	That's it! Nothing had to do with transparency, nothing had to do with conclusions, nothing had to do with discovering any kind of tea, whether it was more pink or more orange. It was a public bank shooting camp because it was public! In fact, the PSD already had in its 2011 Election Program the project of dispersing the capital of the Cash Exchange. In translating, the privatisation of the Box was the goal of the PSD. Otherwise, let us see — and now you could take the opportunity to answer this: if it were on conclusions, why did the PSD lead to the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry? Why did it lead to conclusions that said there had been political and political-party pressures and interventions that were instrumentalizing the Box? Why did you lead examples of these pressures, such as Champalimaud, BCP, dividend distribution, Pension Fund, the way your government sold the insurance sector? Why did it lead to the idea that the subprime did not explain everything, that there had been ruinous businesses whose rational was not understood, like those of La Seda, Vale do Lobo? Why did it lead to these conclusions? Why did it lead to conclusions that it was evident that there had been credits which had nothing to do with the public interest or the interest of a public bank? Why did you lead those conclusions, Mr President? Why did he lead to conclusions that said that the Box had been unwise in how he shared his credits, which he had been unwise, or reckless, or irresponsible, in how, at a certain point, he was compensated for the risk and exposure to non-returnable ventures? Why have all these conclusions come to light, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u95	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u97	Why did you not want to conclude anything in the Committee of Inquiry? By the way, I would like to take the opportunity to ask you two or three questions. First of all: why did your government leave reports from the audit committee in the drawer that said they were significantly increasing the impartiality and the credit at risk in Box? At the time they didn't want to know what was going on? They didn't want to know what those credits were and why were they increasing?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u99	Why do you just want to shoot the Box? Why do you not want to know what happened in the CPB, for example? Why do you not want to expose other banks to this scrutiny? Why do you always want to safeguard banks whose board of directors most seem PSD Councils? Why is only the Box, Mr? Finally, Mr President, it is necessary to combat corruption. All right, here's a proposal from the Left Block for that, too, with the lifting of the bank seal. Do we want to fight corruption? Of course! Do we want the fight against tax evasion? Of course! Do we want the fight against illicit enrichment? Of course! Sir, what will it be like? Will you vote in favour of this Left Block proposal to combat corruption, tax evasion, bank secrecy? Or you'll stay behind that argument that we're using people as human shields...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u100	Or behind the firewall!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u102	...to let everything remain in the same, in this same obscurantism, where, after all, nothing is found? What's it gonna be like? Will you vote in favour of the Left Block proposals to resolutely combat corruption or will you remain in this PSD immobilism? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u103	Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u104	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I thank you for your questions. Finally, by dividing them into three, I think your statement about the first is paradoxical. Let's see: two parties that want transparency are bad; the Left Block, which hides information, prevents polling, deals with the cover of bad management, is good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u105	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u106	Mr President, do you not want to review your question correctly? Do you not wish to review the behaviour of your party, which concealed the clarification of what was happening in the General Deposit Box, Mr. Deputies? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u107	Why did it lead to conclusions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u108	Perhaps, in a gesture of repentance, perhaps of shame, which is in fashion on this side, should echo these statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u109	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u110	Here for me, I still think transparency is good, but the cover of the left is bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u111	What about the answer to my questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u112	Were you even talking about the farce or, better, about the exercise ridiculed by the whole country, which was the trick that made for the close of the Commission of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box in a kind of fiction of conclusions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u113	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u114	Mr President, I think the country knows how much you have disrespected the democracy you have done in the Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u116	...and I'm not talking about that democratic joke that you did there. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u117	So far, answers, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u118	Finally, Mr President, on the behaviour of both parties, it is very simple. Mrs Mariana Mortágua spoke loudly about Ricardo Salgado. But do you know which of us belongs to a party whose leader said "no" to Ricardo Salgado?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u119	Well, well! [[BE's laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u120	Did he say 'no'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u121	Do you know who, in Portugal, told one of the feeders of this web that there was no money from the General Deposit Box to pay for the behaviors they had there?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u122	He even washed money from Socrates, see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u123	You saved everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u124	Mr. Member, do you know when practices of promiscuity, abuse of power, corruption in public office began to be investigated? Do you know when the silence of justice and criminal investigation ended? It wasn't during your time in the government, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u125	Because of a law you didn't approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u126	We pride ourselves too, simply because we have done what is decent, which is to give independence to those who have to investigate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u127	All right! [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u128	... of not fearing the information, and that's why today the Portuguese have more reason to believe that whoever does evil, come from where he comes from, will be judged and penalized for that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u129	Answers, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u130	Do I need to repeat the questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u131	Also for a request for clarification to Mr António Leitão amaro, I have the floor of Mr João Galamba of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Leitão Amaro, the Socialist Party is proud of all the measures it has put forward that allow the police investigation that Mr has invoked from the top of the rostrum. The fundamental measure to allow judicial investigation into cases of corruption and money laundering, in addition to measures proposed by the current Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, when he was Minister of Justice, is a standard which Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão — and justice has been given to him — proposed, in the course of a judicial process, to lift the bank seal on the sole request of the Public Prosecutor, without the need for the intervention of the judge. This measure was proposed by a member of the Socialist Party and deserved a vote in favour, in addition to the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party, which did not have the vote in favour of the PSD and the CDS. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u134	The PSD and the CDS voted against the measures that have made possible the research they now claim as theirs. It's not! The investigation is mainly of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of the means created and approved by governments of the Socialist Party and of the measure proposed by a member of the Socialist Party and approved in this Chamber without the vote in favour of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member spoke of transparency. If you and your party had submitted a bill corresponding to the speech that you made, you can be sure that you would have the same vote in favour of the Socialist Party. Tê-CL will - it the CDS, the Left Block, the PCP and all parties who truly care about transparency and equal treatment in all banks,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] ... and not those who, as the PSD has done, have done in the past and do again today, make a deputized and direct attack to the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u136	...because it's a bank that wanted to privatize in the past, that they didn't want to recapitalize when they had money for it when they were in government and now they want to attack and destroy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I repeat, Mr Member : if it is truly transparency that we are talking about, the Socialist Party will vote in favour of the CDS, the Left Block and the PCP projects because they are the only projects that really care about transparency and that want to give equal treatment among all banks, unlike the PSD, which, in the transitional standard of their project, deliberately excludes BPI and BCP. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u137	It's the freight! That's the freight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u138	And you don't just do that! The honourable Member has filled the breast of BES here. But do you know which bank is not included in your bill and whose credits this Parliament could not know? It is precisely the BES, Mr, because he has never been intervened or assisted by the State, which has indeed been covered by his government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u139	What about the committee of inquiry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u140	Whoever was helped by the government was the New Bank and therefore if the PSD bill were approved we would not only be attacking Box and violating the principle of equality between all banks as well as we would also be safeguarding BES, which would not be covered by the PSD project. No BES credit could be known because BES did not have any public aid, who had the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u142	I don't know if that's a gap, if it's intentional, but what are you guys doing? Members really want your only objective, patented in all the statements they make about the public bank since 2011, either in opposition or in government, either now or again in opposition, is only one : attack and degrade Box and protect private banks, to the point that they have even safeguarded all the major private banks of the country in your bill, which does not cover them. Mr. Deputy, transparency yes, but do not count on the Socialist Party to attack the public bank, the asset of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u143	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u144	This is not done either by the CDS or by the PCP or the Block, whose projects we will vote favourably, is done by a single party, the PSD, and for that will not count on our favorable vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u145	To reply, Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u146	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I thank you for your questions. The honourable Member began by making a series of references to judicial investigations, but I, in the gallery, did not speak of judicial investigations, I spoke of political accountability. And it is strange to see how the honourable Member insists on claiming, or affirming, pride in a government that, among many other consequences, has also brought the country to bankruptcy and the financial system to collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u147	Well remembered! [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u148	Mr. Member, it is like the social state: there is no social state if the social state is bankrupt and there are no banks if the banks are bankrupt. What we did when we arrived at the government in 2011 was to solve this bankruptcy that you created,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... for which you are ashamed of one of your leaders, but whose policies support, being an emphatic and enthusiastic companion of the continuation of the main leaders of the political core. [[Well remembered!]] [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u149	He also found that the honourable Member had come to apologize to the Portuguese people who, a few years ago, asked questions to those responsible for the Socialist Party who had behaviors like those we see today, among others, in the Box, in the Banco Espírito Santo, and were paid with a lot of money.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u150	He hasn't answered anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u151	What about the Frasquillo? Oh, my God! Look at your house!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u152	Mr President, with regard to your concerns and objections, let me tell you, very clearly: the PSD has stated, said, wrote and tried to describe exhaustively, even with references from time to time, so that there is no doubt, contrary to what others do, or some of the others, diplomas...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u153	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u154	The PS doesn't have any! The PS is still hiding, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u155	You don't even have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u156	However, Mr. João Galamba, to ensure that public and private banks were covered, whose capital had in some way been supported by direct or indirect efforts by the State, direct or through the Resolution Fund, Article 3. point ( b) of our proposal says that they are « relevant credit institutions », all credit institutions, « regardless of the nature of the property », which have benefited from public support. What public support, to see if we exclude anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u157	Read the transitional rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u158	« Capital Acquisition (...) » — this is for example BPN ; ‘social capital subscription’ — here are CGD, BANIF ; ‘acquisition of assets’ — here is BES — BES! — and Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u159	BES doesn't fit in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u160	Read the transitional rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u161	Is this a BCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u162	Yes, Mr President, the carve out operations that composed the capital at the time of the resolution are mentioned and explained here and therefore all banks are there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u163	Read the transitional rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u164	Then, Mr President, in order not to doubt which institutions have been the subject of a resolution — which includes, in particular, BES — are also covered, the following point refers to direct or indirect support by the State or through the Resolution Fund, financed by the State, which is in particular the case of BANIF and BES. So there's no doubt about it. Mr President, the wording we have adopted in the transitional provision has the effect of ensuring enlargement. In fact, as the CFP recalls, we did the same when the Commission voted on the request that private banks be guaranteed previously to be covered. The question is very simple, Mr President: this wording of the transitional provision can be improved, let us admit it. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u165	Yes! But she doesn't exclude anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u166	Is this a BCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u167	It does not exclude anything and therefore covers public and private banks that have received public aid in the last 12 years. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I want to see if, in the vote, you will also do what you did last week,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u168	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u169	... that it was finally to accept the challenge of Rui Rio so that there is transparency about the large unmet debtors that led to the state having to inject money into banks. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u170	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are having here today, with initiatives from various parties and the Government, concerns a matter which, as I have already said, is a very relevant matter in terms of balance of what the State is and what the rights of each citizen are, in particular of each contributing citizen. The CDS also presents here an initiative — and I will begin there — which has to do with something that we have been concerned about for a long time, which we have been concerned since the first time that the financial system in Portugal forced the State and, by financing the State, all taxpayers were called to pay for what was followed by bankruptcy, non-compliance, successive problems in public and private institutions in the financial sector. In each of the committees of inquiry, we are committed to the same attitude, either in government or in opposition, in the case of public banks or private banks. We did not have an attitude when we were supporting the government and another one when we were in opposition, we did not have a requirement when it came to a public bank and a smaller requirement when it was a private bank. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So what we do now is the natural consequence of what has happened in the meantime. We have always been demanding in relation to the information we understood, at each of these committees of inquiry and at each of these moments, that was required. And, first of all, what is required by a taxpayer who has to pay the « hole» of a bank that is originated by credit that has been granted and has not been paid by those who have received this credit, is to know who was at the origin of this responsibility to which it was called and of the « hole» that has to be covered. That is why we are fighting in successive committees of inquiry. We are fighting for this too, but not only in the Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box. The Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box is special because for the first time, a court gave Parliament the right to access this information, saying that Parliament could have access to this information within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry, by the powers which parliamentary investigations give to these committees, by its nature equivalent to that given to the criminal proceedings. And suddenly the Socialist Party, the CFP and the Left Block, without Parliament being able to comply with that right given to it and recognized by a court, ended the Committee of Inquiry, not allowing Parliament to know that information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u173	We won't waste time here in a guilt game, because the guilt of the PS, the Left Block and the PCP is suddenly known in the country and at the moment it doesn't take any more time to reaffirm it. What we do is to be consistent: if it is possible for three parties to block Parliament, prevent Parliament from knowing the information, prevent citizens from having access to information they are entitled to, then the law is changed. We cannot comply with a law that allows a majority not to make what is essential to be transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u175	Therefore, our project is clear: whether public banks or private banks, whoever is in government, when the State is called to cover a 'hole' in these financial institutions, recapitalizing, lending, financing, whatever, there is the right of citizens to know why this situation happened, what credits were not met, what credits were caused by damage to the accounts of these banks, what guarantees were associated with these credits and were not sufficient to fulfil the obligations of those who received these funds and who in these financial institutions gave these credits and contributed to the existence of those 'holes'. It is so simply this: changing the law so that all this is possible. Anyone who feels that citizens are in fact not entitled to vote against the CDS project but withdraws its consequences. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have a different degree of demand from those who have other legislative initiatives. It is not enough to confer a right on Parliament and Members, because it is not just Parliament and the Members who cover these 'holes' that exist in the financial sector, but all the citizens who contribute. It is a duty of transparency to be the Banco de Portugal to give this information not only to Parliament but to make it public so that it can be voted upon by all. We think this very important point is not to limit the transmission of information to Parliament but to make this information public. This is the object of our project, which is an object similar to that of other projects which are also being discussed here on this subject, which is why we will vote favourably for all these projects even if they have solutions different from ours, because we understand that you can leave the debate in the specialty a better solution that never allow a majority in Parliament to do not allow what the unanimity of the country out there demands to know. That is what we want, and that is why we will contribute. There are also two initiatives that go beyond this, which are the Government and the Left Block, to ensure that bank secrecy is raised so that the tax administration will know those who are account holders with a balance of more than €50 000. We have tabled here, in requests for clarification to the Government, the doubts we have about this because, as I said, there are two points that need to be balanced and we are not sure that this balance is guaranteed by these Government initiatives and the Left Block. On the one hand, if we are fully in favour of deepening what enables greater capacity for the Tax Authority to be demanding and to ensure the fundamental principle that whoever must pay taxes must pay all taxes that must, on the other hand, we consider that we must also respect the taxpayer's right to pay all taxes that he has to pay and not more than one cent of what is his obligation, it is not evident that these projects guarantee this. We have presented our reasons: guarantees of confidentiality so that these lists are not useless information and completely unlawful and consequence of what the Tributary Authority will do with that information. What are you gonna do? What does this information allow you to make it not possible at the moment? More: what, from the point of view of the whole tax system, benefits from such a measure? There are doubts that we are not allowed to vote in favour of these initiatives, but we will not be in a speech that would be very good for the left-wing majority. We are for transparency, we are for the fight against corruption but we do not think that in transparency and in the fight against corruption worth everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u176	Big sheet in the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u177	...valve the firewall of who is fulfilling and does not have to have his life torn apart. Therefore, we will be responsible for the debate, demanding that taxpayers' rights be respected, but also beating us for this transparency, for this legality and for that requirement which cannot cease to exist in a rule of law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u178	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Socialist Party understands that the Portuguese have the right to know who were the great beneficiaries of the decisions of the managers of the national bank that led to the collapse of banks such as BPN, BPP, BES and BANIF, decisions and management practices that resulted in the fact that the Portuguese, taxpayers, were called, with their taxes, to pay the losses of these decisions which implied that the State, that is, all of us, with the use of our taxes, should also have to go to the Millennium BCP, the BPI and the General Deposit Box. But we also have the credit that it was the governments and initiatives of the Socialist Party that allowed the tax and judicial authorities to access information on financial and banking movements. In particular, Law No. 36 / 2009, which constituted a turn of page in this matter. Now, using the Portuguese legitimate desire to know who the different ones benefited from these bank decisions as an instrument to make a closed attack on the public bank, the CGD, as the PSD does, is that we will not allow it in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u181	The PSD bill does not pass on an initiative that aims, solely and exclusively, to attack the public bank, the General Deposit Box, and here I make a clear distinction between the PSD attitude and that of the CDS, whose practice, in this matter, is done due to justice, has notable differences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft law of the Government has taken up an initiative which, as Mr President of the Republic said, has not been promulgated in time only in view of the conditionalities existing in the Portuguese banking system — an initiative which at the time did not deserve the vote of the PSD — which clearly does not happen today, much by force and by the result of the work of the Government and the majority that supports it. It should also be noted that this is not a strictly fiscal measure of scope but, rather, an instrument that will strengthen the fight against tax evasion, corruption and illicit enrichment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u183	But we also do not ignore a very concrete reality, which is the exercise of banking in the European context, in accordance with European rules and in a framework of competition. We all know that there are Community regulations that condition the simple and simple derogation from banking secrecy. One concern that we have, and I am sure that the Portuguese share it, is that we would not like that, to the detriment of the economy and the national bank, if they create conditions of competitive disadvantages for the national bank and Portuguese companies,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the adoption of the national financial market by European banks not subject to the same rules, a reality which would create significant difficulties for Portuguese business, particularly in access to credit, to the detriment of the national economy. For all this, our position is not the same in relation to all the solutions presented in the different projects, both as regards the disclosure of claims in breach and the size of that same disclosure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have to clearly distinguish between what was at the root of the almost collapse and the crisis the Portuguese banking system, a crisis that the PSD and CDS government has called for to ignore or minimize, from what is the regular economic activity that has necessarily occurred and will continue to occur. It is in this frame of reference that we will stand at work and in appreciation of the speciality of the different diplomas under discussion today and that they are worthy of approval in this debate. In addition to the parliamentary investigation regime, we have no doubt about the importance of valuing the committees of inquiry. It is our aim to credibility and ensure that they will have all the conditions, both within the framework of national law and within the framework of European legislation, so that the Assembly of the Republic and the Country can know the facts that are the subject of investigation in the parliamentary committees of inquiry. I conclude by making it clear that transparency, respect for the law, the protection of the interests of taxpayers and the national economy will be the basis for the work and the contribution that the PS Parliamentary Group will take in the discussion on the speciality of these various initiatives, voting in favour of those who are, in fact, serious in the interest of the taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u184	Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor to speak again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think there is a limit to the attempt to distort the legislative or legislating will of Members. The President of the PSD, Rui Rio, when he made the first appeal, said this very clear: «We want to know the information of the large default debtors of all credit institutions that have received public aid, whether public or private. I fear - I repeat it». Here was a series of attempts by the Socialist Party to change our will. We don't want any doubts. So, Mr President, I would like to inform the House that we have just delivered a replacement text that puts something in parenthesis that is already there differently. Our text says that relevant credit institutions are those that have received public aid from the State, in parentheses, including those that have been the subject of a resolution and nationalisation measure. This so that there are no creative interpretations of the genre « are only talking about that powder, of such a good bank ». No, they are those that have been objected, i.e., includes BES, includes BPN, there is no doubt, everything is to be revealed. And also, in order to be clear, we have sought to ensure that the transitional provision ensures that the information from the back is disclosed, and you distort. We have withdrawn the transitional provision and then, in the specialty, we will ensure that the main objective that PCP, Block, CDS and PSD have is that not only injections and public support for the future but also those that have happened in the past, ideally in the last 12 years, to leave no one out. So that there is no reason for your creative excuse, they have the replacement text and they have no reason now that no other cause for suspicion would follow our initiative. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President — Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asked for the floor, but he should have written down and spoken before the PSD. however, we will find that this is not very important for the votes and will give you the floor at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the PS in relation to the matters which are being discussed here today is very clear. The PS wants to combat tax evasion, or to combat money laundering, created — it is good to always remember this — a possible committee for transparency of political positions and high public positions and is very committed to the results of this committee, and it is now necessary to make the bridge between the two things. One way that we are following in this possible committee is that of the so-called "unjustified enrichment" and passing through the tax route what in the past was by another way and was considered unconstitutional. However, the Government's proposal here today to reveal the balances of more than EUR 50 000 to 31 December is another contribution to clarifying the unjustified enrichment. In fact, we do not understand the position of the CDS on this subject and we do not know what position it will take in the committee on this matter. Therefore, the PS is very committed to these matters, but it was agreed to deconstruct the PSD position a little bit. It is because this amendment, which has now been rectified by Mr Leitão Amaro, is for the time being that the criticisms made by Mr Galamba were well founded, but it is a pity that it is totally insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u187	Otherwise, they did not present any other text!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u188	To be totally clear to the House and the Country, and as three lines, I will read the transitional standard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u189	I'm sorry! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u190	The transitional standard, Article 7. the, states the following : « within 120 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Banco de Portugal shall send to the Assembly of the Republic the appropriate information concerning credit institutions which have received State support for capitalisation in the last 12 years and which, on the date of entry into force of this Law, the State has not been fully reimbursed ». This standard has two very serious problems: the first is that all these institutions that have received State support, and where there are also debtors in default, are soon out of battle, and they are, by chance, the private ones. The second problem of this rule is that the State is by chance the only shareholder in the General Deposit Box, which creates a problem here, isn't it? The state injects money, as it has now injected...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u191	They're just excuses! This is extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u192	You've changed your text. That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u193	In fact, we had a discussion, as you know, with Eurostat on whether to count everything or not should count nothing of the capital injection, partly because of the debtors in breach, partly because the State is a shareholder and invests. [[PSD protests.]] As it is in the future, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? When the State injects money, if you need to inject money into the General Deposit Box, will you need to reveal everything? Public bank, yes, private bank, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u194	That's just excuses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u195	Therefore, there is an inundable contradiction in the PSD project that, despite this last-minute change, does not resolve the fundamental, and the fundamental—which has to be clear, for all Members and for the Country—is the following: what is the difference between General Deposit Box, BPN, BANIF and BES? There are two differences, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The first is that the Box exists, is active, and BES, BANIF and BPN no longer exist. We had a commission of inquiry, and it is good that we understand the position of the PS, the Bloc and the PCP in that committee, where in fact we are opposed to the detachment of the General Deposit Box, the only public bank, when the functioning private banks would remain immune to all this kind of research. So here's a colossal difference between the Box and the other banks. The other colossal difference is as follows: the Box, if you have profits, and we all want you to have them and do public service at the same time, gives dividends to the State, which the other banks do not give. Therefore, we, PS, and also the PCP and the Left Block, say in actual subscription, are intransigently defending the General Deposit Box, which was not in fact the case of the PSD. I shall finish, Mr. President and Mr. Members, saying that the PS is and will be on the side of strengthening the bank, and with a very important note: we will vote in favour of some projects, but, of these three parties, the PS is the only Europeanist, strongly Europeanist. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u196	Stop it! I was running so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u197	Therefore, the European rules governing the functioning of the financial system and the directives that exist must be guarded, and we wish and believe that, in the work of the specialty, what is foreseen in the European financial system in relation to the reserves of secrecy will be duly cautious in the replacement text that will emerge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u198	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have come to realize, and the CFP has been warning about this fact, that the private bank — its methods and how it operates, its practices, legal and illegal, its frauds — is protected precisely by the cover of darkness and opacity that covers it. If the bank was exposed to a degree of transparency that would allow the Portuguese to understand all the practices it carries out, the bank could not function as it works, or rather the private bank would become - absolutely unobstructed and impossible to exist. The private bank, the set of practices that define it, is only compatible with darkness and shadow.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u200	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u201	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only the following: the draft laws presented by the CFP do not aim, in any way, to whiteen this fact, but rather to expose it. Alert to the fact that the draft laws presented here by the CFP should be understood and understood precisely in the broader perspective of the public control of the bank, which is indeed the only solution to solve the set of root problems. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u202	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this end of the debate, and with regard to the Government's proposal for a bill, I would like to stress one point and reiterate another which I think is important, which is that, with this proposal for a law, we are in some way promoting a firewall in relation to the meeters. I think it's important to sit down. What we are proposing here is nothing less than what exists today and which is recognized, in terms of international practices, as one of the most efficient mechanisms in combating fraud and tax evasion. It is therefore very important to stress that what we are doing here is not a flood to the meeters, it is only to use an internationally recognized mechanism as effective, for better results, or even better results in combating fraud and tax evasion. We have a paradigm shift in what is currently in place, because, at present, the derogation from the bank seal for this purpose by the tax authority only occurs if the Tax Authority is faced with a specific situation. What we are doing with this proposal is changing the paradigm, aligning, as I said, with what we already do at international level and with what we are doing around the world, which is precisely the provision of balances, so that it is another element of information, which, inter alia, can, within a risk assessment matrix, identify more situations that may potentially be irregular and thus verify their irregularity or not. On the other hand, it is also important to stress that what we are suggesting is proportional to what we propose, because we are not asking the Tax Authority to have access to the banking movements of each of the taxpayers. No, what the Tax Authority has access to is, I repeat, only and only to the bank balance on 31 December each year, exactly at the same time as in all jurisdictions in the world — I have had occasion to repeat, are more than 100 — this information is simultaneously shared. It is shared with respect for the privacy of each and with the aim of having an effective means of combating tax evasion. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no suspicion of taxpayers, nor of taxpayers' lives. What is more information, so that we can achieve better justice and fiscal equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u204	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, as proved out, is of the greatest importance for the country, but, as proved by the arguments presented, it has not been taken seriously by all the banks. It is true that we already knew that the PSD had been talking for months about the lists of large debtors of the General Deposit Box, but, as proved this week, they spoke, they spoke, they spoke only and only for that reason, to speak, for political propaganda, political chicana to, in demagogy, take some advantage. Otherwise, see: there are projects of all the benches, except the Socialist Party, which has the Government's proposal, and when did the PSD bill enter? last Monday, at the end of the day, after the hour scheduled by the Conference of Leaders, and only for the goodwill of the benches is that it is discussed today. on 25. the time is that that so thought-tank initiative was given for debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u206	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u207	After all, it could only be a requirement!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u208	This is extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u209	But see what happened during today's debate. The time was passing, the arguments were being scrambled and the PSD was tearing down its bill. It started in a way, but it ended a part of what it had started. The more time there was, the less articles would have, and only the title would be left to say: « take our project to vote, let it pass, let us stay in a photograph». A photograph that isn't yours, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not your photograph. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u210	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u211	They've never been on the side of transparency in the banking system, ever, and that's why they're not gonna be stuck in today's photography.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u212	Was it all a scene? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u213	on our part, we do not accept this political use, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. They tried to whiten out other things here. Perhaps also in the spirit of the money laundering that existed in the Exceptional Tax Regularisation Regime ( RERT III ) of the PSD Government and CDS. When Mr. Leitão Amaro here said that no leader of his party had given the hand to Ricardo Salgado, until he could have said, in the following sentence, that if there was a RRRT, if someone regularized capitals that fled our country—it knows why, but with the certainty that he went to run away to the prosecutor—it was Paulo Portas, it was the CDS, it was Paul Nuncio, who had nothing to do with it. Only by chance were they in the same government. But, Mr President, I did not say it and, because I did not say it then, I can say with certainty: whoever consented to all the money laundering that was allowed to Ricardo Salgado and to his « Monte Branco scheme » was the RERT III (Exceptional Regime of Tax Regularization ), a program for the regularization of capitals fled abroad and that was promoted by PSD and CDS. Now, Ricardo Salgado thanks you, Mr. Deputies. It was tens of millions of euros that he managed to whiten and legalize with this welcome from the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u214	Well remembered! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u215	Mr President, I do not know whether Ricardo Salgado receives Christmas cards — I believe not or at least hope not — but he cannot deny that his Government has helped to clean up money from a fraudulent scheme, the same scheme that you criticized. We therefore see how the PSD is in this context: with two sides, Mr President! Say something but do something else! This is the real reality. Let's see what's on the table and, through the vote of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we will determine who wants to fight corruption. We already know that there is no fight against corruption without the lifting of the bank seal and the words that the PSD brought to this debate were in the sense that the lifting of the bank seal is a gateway to private life. We had heard this in the past and the CDS itself had said the same when the President of the Republic vetoed the Government's initiative. But the CDS, by the way, has already learned from the cases of corruption which have come to be public and is going to 'amend the hand', at least so said, opening up for this matter to fall to the specialty, if you abstain in this vote. On the other hand, the PSD, which was directly questioned, has always escaped this question, never having answered. We shall see, then, from now on in the voting period, whether the ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members will reject the lifting of bank secrecy and therefore promote the secret by which fat corruption or vote in favour of combating corruption and tax evasion and lifting of bank secrecy, so that in our country we will have an update of the law for this new century. This is the question that's on the table. On this subject, we see that there are PSD Members with their headlights, because we know of their heavy consciousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u216	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u217	We know what they said about it and how they voted. Mrs. Members, raise their heads in the fight ready for corruption and vote in favour of the diploma on the lifting of the bank seal. This is the challenge on the table. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave a note to emphasize as the proposal of the Left Block, as regards the large debtors of the financial system, applies to all banks of the financial system. Our proposal has two criteria: one relating to the past, which says that all financial institutions which, directly or indirectly, have access to public support for their capitalisation will have to make available the list of their large debtors, which, with these non-compliances, have forced them to resort to public money; another relating to the future, because we know how much it costs when a bank goes to the dock and the taxpayer's money is diverted to save banks, according to which, in order to avoid the negotiations that have opened our financial system, a list will be disclosed, for all time and again, all financial institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u219	There is a very big difference in what the PSD proposes. The PSD now has, as in the past, a prejudice in our financial system called General Deposit Box. So when I was talking about the lists of the big debtors, I wasn't talking about everyone, about those we all know that it cost the state money.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u220	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u221	The BES, the BANIF, the BPI, the BPP, the BPN... He wasn't talking about everyone, he was talking only about the General Deposit Box. This is prejudiced against the public bank, because by PSD there was no public bank in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u223	But that's what we don't accept. The rule should be the same for everyone, so that everyone knows which lines are sewn and how transparency is due throughout the financial system. I therefore ask to conclude: why the PSD wanted to come to this debate to charge the private bank? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate. We shall now proceed to the expected votes. First of all, it is important to check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the electronic table records 218 presences, which are added, because they have not been able to register electronically, those of the Members. Members João Torres, PS, and Patrícia Fonseca, CDS-PP, making the total of 220 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin by voting, in general, Bill No. 870 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Introducing new rules of transparency in the banking sector and strengthening the powers of parliamentary investigations in access to banking information ( proceeds from the forty-ninth amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and the third amendment of the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 871 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures a system for access and automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This initiative also goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for the application of the automatic access system to financial information to residents in national territory. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This diploma also falls to 5. the Commission. We then generally vote on Bill No. 875 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the technical unit for the recovery of wealth resulting from the credits that have read the national bank ( CFP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] in the same way, this initiative falls to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 876 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for disclosure of information relating to the granting of high-value credits ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 877/ XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Access to banking information by parliamentary committees of inquiry and transparency in respect of large unencumbered or restructured loans in financial institutions receiving from the State support for their capitalisation ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Finally, we generally vote on Bill No. 836 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in public support to the financial sector ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma also falls to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: firstly, there will be an actual debate required by the Greens under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme « The dispensation of environmental impact assessment for oil exploration hole off Aljezur »; secondly, the draft resolution No 1471 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the Programme of Work of the European Commission for 2018 (Commission on European Affairs) ; thirdly, draft resolutions 887 / XIII ( 2 ) will be jointly considered in general. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists/ dietists in institutions in the social and solidarity sector providing care to the elderly ( PSD ), 1606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Existence of nutritionists / dietists and pharmacists in IPSS ( PCP ) and 1608 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists in institutions providing care for the elderly ( NAP) ; fourthly, the projects of lein 170 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together in general. ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by establishing 35 hours as the maximum limit of the normal working period, equivalent to the Labour Code regime of the General Labour Law in Public Functions ( PAN), 867 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets 35 hours as a maximum limit of the weekly working time for all workers ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( Os Verdes ) and 874 / XIII of 3. ( a ) — 35 hours in the private sector for increased job creation and replacement of rights (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE ) ; fifthly, petition No 395 / XIII ( 3 ) will be considered. a ) — They request the repositioning of teachers in the career, according to the Statute of the Teacher Career ( Carlos Manuel Delgado Brás et al.), in conjunction with draft resolution No 1610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revalorization of the teaching career ( BE) ; finally, petition No 390 / XIII ( 3 ) will still be appreciated. ( a ) — Calls for the amendment of the Nationality Law on the recognition of nationality originating in the children of immigrants ( José Augusto Duarte Sequeira Mendes Pereira and others). at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u225	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u226	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u227	Mr President, on the agenda which was already defined by the Conference of Leaders, a current debate was added, the requirement of the Green Party. I ask, then, whether tomorrow's plenary will start at 10 o'clock or if we anticipate it half an hour, so that the votes will not be shown and beyond what was planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u228	Mr President, I read what is being presented to me, which is the translation of what was decided at the Leaders Conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u229	Mr President, I raised the issue so that it could be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-17.u230	Mr President, tomorrow's plenary session will start at 10 a.m. and will therefore end later. See you tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
