ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. The agenda for today is a political debate requested by the PSD under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on economics and employment, debate in which the Government may or may not participate, and today does not participate. Before we begin our work, and today being the International Women's Day, I would like to say no more on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament, to greet women worldwide, especially those who are fighting for their ideals of equality, freedom and, in many cases, dignity. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let us therefore begin our work. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More economics and better employment are the reason for this debate. The results achieved by our economy are positive, but they cannot lead to euphoria as we have seen. After all, most European countries grow much more than we do. Looking at the last decade, it is easy to see that the path that led us to the pre-bankrota has been reversed and that economic growth has been a reality since 2014. The path outlined by the previous government, based on the balance of public accounts and external credibility, has borne fruit. The 2011 recession and the 11% deficits already go there, and our wish is that they don't come back. in the same way, international credibility, reconquered by the previous government, has not been decimated, and therefore the conditions for sustainable growth are created. As highlighted in the 2017 Economic Conjuncture Report, the current growth is mainly based on exports and less on consumption or investment. That is, it is our companies and their workers who have conquered new markets and pulled by the country. This is possible for its performance, but much for its external, highly favourable environment. Low interest rates, oil prices, the growth of the world economy and the performance of our major economic partners are important factors at present. After all, and I insist that 17 countries in the European Union grow more than Portugal. The good time and favorable setting are opportunities to look into the future with other eyes. We cannot live in the shadow of good transitional results. Let us not forget that the government's own forecasts go towards declining growth for 2018 and 2019. This is the time to make decisions for the future. It's time for more ambition! Despite the economic performance of recent years, Portugal is only 63 % of the European average. This, after we reached 71 % in 1999. It's been a long time to diverge and it's urgent to recover. Social well-being thus requires political decision-makers. This is really the challenge of Portugal: growing towards the European average to provide better rates of well-being for Portuguese. as we look at the evolution of the unemployment rate, we see that, after a steady increase between 2008 and 2013, unemployment has been falling, fortunately, since then. Another positive fact resulting from previous reforms that now bear fruit. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Where do we want to see Portugal within 10 years? on the European average? With qualified and well-remunerated jobs? Of course! But will we be drawing the right direction for this purpose? We have doubts, many doubts. We want to achieve sustainable economic growth, which goes through the bet on qualified employment. Qualification for employability needs to be encouraged. Technical and vocational training must be correlated with the needs of our business fabric. Just like that, we'll have more work, better pay. We want the reduction of the unemployment rate to be at the expense of the creation of qualified and well-paid employment. in this field, it is also important to deepen the link between science, universities, polytechnics and companies. The most qualified employment presupposes a dialogue and a close link between these worlds which have long been on the back. [[PSD applause.]] We want a country that gives new generations every opportunity to develop their potential. But, in fact, what we have seen does not point to that. [[PS protests.]] Let's look at what businessmen tell us. Those who, because of their dynamics, increasingly and better export, tell us that there is a huge deficit in qualified frameworks in several sectors of economic activity. We have the most qualified generation ever, which does not meet the needs of companies. There are thousands and thousands of jobs who want to be occupied and who do not find recipients. Education and vocational training are unable to respond to the challenges of the economy. And this is the central issue. If today we no longer respond to the growth of the economy, as we will do within 10 years, where will there be new and demanding professions? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want more and better qualification for a better paid job. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u3	And it's not financially suffocating the professional schools we've got. It is not delaying new vocational training models that we have achieved. It is not underfunding the political and university education we have achieved. It is not by delaying the competitions for support to the scientific and technological entities that we have achieved. We need to change models and policies and provide schools, vocational training centres, policy centres, universities and other entities of the scientific and technological system not only of means but above all of incentives to anticipate the new challenges of the economy. [[PSD applause.]] We must be back in the front of the European project and in the medium term achieve full convergence with the best economic and social indicators of the European Union. We can't fall asleep in the comfort of yesterday's reforms. The dynamics of new times require a permanent reformist spirit, with courage and practical agility to respond to a tomorrow full of new paradigms, without prejudice, without castrative ideological complexes. It is for these new challenges that we have an obligation to prepare ourselves. Only in this way can we reach the European Union's average. Only in this way can we build, on a solid basis, the future of the new generations. Only in this way, we, the political decision makers, will fulfill our obligation. [[PSD applause.]] During the intervention, Images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u4	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr. Heitor Sousa, Mr. BE, Mr. Carlos Pereira, Mr. PS, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, Mr. Os Verdes, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u5	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, I begin by congratulating the PSD on the subject that brings us here today, in this debate marked by the PSD and on the economy and employment. I wanted to start by telling you that you wanted to make a shape-up there... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u6	...in the middle of the story I wanted to tell. It is that the story that Mr Deputies tells about the rewards he intends to remain for himself and his party of the current government does not correspond to all those who were the highly negative effects of the governance of the PSD / CDS during the years of the so-called 'government of troika'. Therefore, we have seen the PSD choose a theme that is certainly relevant to the country but for which the governance of the PSD has « glass roofs », immense « glass roofs », with regard to the materials mentioned above. Would you like to ask the PSD the following: will there be some self-flashing vertigo in the new leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group to choose a theme that has so negatively marked your last governance period between 2011 and 2015? As it is commonly said, Mr Deputies, in economic terms, begin with the so-called 'big numbers of the economy' and the PSD has chosen the large numbers of issues that mark economic governance, which are the evolution of the economy and the evolution of employment. Let us see what happened in terms of the large numbers of employment in the years of your governance. Between 2012 and 2013 310,000 jobs were destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u7	When? In how many years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u8	Between 2012 and 2013. So, two years. Between 2012 and 2015, overall, 191,000 jobs were destroyed during the four years of your governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u10	In terms of overall employment developments in the period 2011 to 2015, there was a reduction of about 200,000 jobs, ranging from 4 740 000 to 4 549 000 jobs, i.e. 200 000 jobs to less than 200 000 people who ceased to work in the four years of PSD / CDS governance. How do these numbers compare with the current two-year government from 2015 to 2017? in this period, more than 210 000 jobs were created. These are large numbers of statistics. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, the first question I would like to ask you is this: since you choose this as one of the most relevant issues of your intervention, how do you explain this enormous perplexity, how do you explain that, in global evolution, in two years, this government has created more jobs than those you have destroyed in a four-year period of government? In terms of discouraged people, therefore, who ceased actively seeking employment in 2011, there were 170 000 Portuguese disencouraged ; in 2015, this number...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u11	Mr President, I ask you to finish because it has already exceeded the time of the discounts, let us say.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u12	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. I thought that this time was part of the overall time of our parliamentary group. Finally, Mr. President, I just want to say that in the governance balance between 2011 and 2015, more 90 000 people were discouraged from looking for employment than those that existed in 2011. Therefore, in terms of large numbers on employment, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, the question I leave to you is this: why the PSD has so much to say that this should not be understood as an ideological issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u13	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u14	... when, exactly, his former leader, Pedro Passos Coelho, in 2016, opposed the increase of the minimum wage to €557, precisely with the argument that this would prevent the creation of new jobs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u15	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all, allow me to congratulate you on the subject that you brought to this House. It is a relevant topic and demonstrates that in the Assembly of the Republic, not only are the things that are going wrong but also the things that are going well, and those that are running well are the economy and employment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It should be noted that in your speech, you preferred to talk about the future and not the present, about what is happening in Portugal and, therefore, I would like to talk a little bit about the present to leave you a question. In fact, as you presented in your graphics and in your speech, Portugal grows, Portugal grows and grows much. It is true, as you said, that there are many countries that grow more than Portugal, but there are also other countries that grow less, and there are not few, are even very significant. Mr President, I will give you some examples : Germany, Denmark, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Italy, all of them grow less than Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u17	But the base is much bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u18	And the others still grew up much less than us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u19	But there is a very important figure in this relationship : Portugal grows for the first time in this century above the European Union ( EU ) average. for the first time, we are converging with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there is another important fact which is hidden behind the statistics, which you know and which, in fact, your leader recognizes, that Portugal grows driven by exports and investment. That is exactly what you are asking for, and that is exactly what happened, in a very significant and very consistent way. If you analyze the statistical data you will notice that for example exports beat records in 2017. The market share increased from 2015 to 2016, and the proportion of exports in GDP is now historical 43%. We have a prospect of reaching 50 % and I am sure that the PSD will try to contribute to this. More: investment has not grown as much as it now is private investment, especially public investment. Speaking of the future, as far as public investment is concerned, we already know that in 2018 it will grow 40%, Mr, and therefore this is also a very important fact. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u20	Say that without laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u21	Mr President, as far as foreign direct investment is concerned — the one which you are talking about. Members have always said that it would not happen in Portugal, because foreign investors would never invest in Portugal with a left-wing government – records have been observed. Foreign direct investment has been colossal in Portugal : it is 9, 1 billion euros of investment in Portugal, in 2017, and this in fact reflects the trust of external investors and refutes what your outlook in the past has been. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u22	As a result, it is the lowest in our history!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u23	In addition, with regard to job creation, Portugal is leading today within the framework of European countries and this is also good news, as you said, and very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr President, would you like to end up asking one question: do the PSD really want to do this debate? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u24	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions raised by the honourable Members. Mr. Heitor de Sousa and Mr. Carlos Pereira. As an initial note, let me tell you that you have not correctly understood what we are discussing here today, but without any fear, I have already clarified everything. [[PS protests.]] I want to tell Mr. Heitor de Sousa that probably the graphics I showed were small, but for some reason— precisely because I am not afraid to discuss the past, although this is not today's motto—I presented a graph with a 10-year cycle, where the situation before the troika intervention, the path that led us there and how, from 2014 onwards, the previous government has turned around, allowing the rates of unemployment and growth to be reversed. [[PSD applause.]] That is why, Mr President, in view of what is at stake here, and if I may use the expression you have used, I think the Left Block is that it has been the 'encapsor' in governance, since it is no longer a PS crutch in matters that concern you. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u26	The meaning of emplaster is not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u27	That's it, Mr. Deputies, it's nothing more! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Carlos Pereira, we are not afraid to discuss the present or the past, that is not the motto. There's something here that got away from him! In fact, we have the growth that I myself said, that I have shown without any embarrassment, analyzing 10 years away. As I said, well, there are countries that grow less than Portugal, but there are many that grow more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u28	And those who grow more and more have grown more! They also grew up earlier!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u29	... in particular most countries, with the exception of Greece, which have also undergone interventions. These are growing a lot more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u30	It's true! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u31	Look where Ireland is and where we are! I know you don't get too worried about this, but we're worried. I am not concerned that Germany, Denmark, France or the United Kingdom will grow a little less than us and that the others will grow a lot more, I want to grow. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr President, we are 62 % of the European average, we have to converge — and much! — and, for that, it is necessary to give an answer to what I brought here today and that the PS did not want to know. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u32	Today, we are growing, the economy is exporting more, but companies tell us that they have no qualified staff to their places, to their companies. [[All right.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u33	Metallurgy came here to say that it is more than 20 000, only in this sector of activity. [[PS protests.]] The question I bring to the debate — and that is why we really want to do this debate! — we have to prepare for the future, we have to tell young people who are in school, in basic education, that the training the Portuguese State is giving them will fit them into employment. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u34	It is necessary that the world that prepares for education joins those of companies in advance and hopefully we can marry training to the needs of companies, and that, Mr President, is the challenge we have to face. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u35	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD on today's agenda because, in fact, we can now talk about the economy that we have, while during the previous legislature, when much we were talking about the economy that we did not have. And the same is said about employment: today we can talk about employment, while during the PSD/CDS government of what we were talking about was unemployment. This shift from the center of the discussion makes all the difference, and still well. Good, from the start, because the devil ended up not to show up. He did not appear, but the lack is more than justified and the justification comes from a very simple given: after all, the return of income to families is bearing fruit and closed the door to the devil. In other words, the devil did not come simply because he found the door closed and, no matter what it costs to accept, they were right The Greens and all those who argued that the austerity imposed by the previous government was not a solution, which was not inevitable and there were alternatives to austerity policies that massacred and infernified the lives of families for four painful and long years. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, in terms of economics and employment, things may still not be right and in some cases may even be far from desirable, but there is, however, a clear and obvious certainty that leaves no room for doubt and that no one in good sense and good faith can deny: in terms of economics and employment, the situation is incomparably better than it was in the PSD/CDS government. It is true that it is necessary to go further, and the Greens consider, even, that there are conditions to go further. Of course, because it is absolutely essential to make a firm and effective commitment to the development of national production as a way of also reducing the weight of external factors in the performance of our economy, such factors that, as we know, our country does not dominate, but also because it is necessary to look « with eyes to see» for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which take a truly decisive role in our economy, being also responsible for more than 80 % of total employment in our country. Therefore, if it is true that it is necessary to go further, it is also true that the situation of our economy and employment is much better than it was during the PSD/CDS governance period. I now leave you with my first request for clarification, Mr Emídio Guerreiro : in your view, the situation of our economy and employment is better than the one that has left us, or is it worse? Then, Mr President, on employment, we also find that numbers do not leave room for doubt. The figures speak for themselves and it is not worth comparing today's unemployment rates with the unemployment rates during the previous government, because it is a waste of time. In fact, you will certainly remember that the former government, instead of creating jobs, has spent four years sowing unemployment and firing workers. But, Mr President, we believe that employment is not enough, we need jobs with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u38	And, in this regard, it is interesting to know the position of the PSD on the need to strengthen the rights of those who work. It is interesting to know, for example, what the PSD thinks about the need to re-establish in our legal and industrial order the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker or, even, the need to value and strengthen collective bargaining in labour relations. It would be important for us to clarify the PSD's position on these labour matters, without forgetting, of course, my first request for clarification, which has to do with the reading of the situation of our economy and employment when compared with that of the previous government, the PSD/CDS Government. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, is the situation better or worse than the one the PSD and CDS left us?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u39	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u40	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all I begin by congratulating the PSD on bringing to the discussion the issues of growth, employment and qualification. They are absolutely structural themes for the future of the country and, above all, they are themes on which we know that reforms need to be made, because reforms take time to bear fruit. Reforms and amendments take time to succeed and, therefore, any Portuguese who is concerned about the medium and long term knows that, at the moment, having what is the most immobilist and most reactive Government in Europe will have a consequence, and the consequence is to engage in the future of the present and future generations of Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u41	When we talk about economics, it is very important to realize that, contrary to what many people say, in 2016 and 2017, years of this governance of the Socialist Party with its allies to the left and to the extreme left, Portugal diverged from the European Union. In 2016, Portugal grew less, even, than it had grown in 2015 — it is important to remember us! — and even in 2017, it has not been able to take advantage of the good time of economic growth of some of the most important markets for our market, such as the Spanish market, which in the last three years has always grown above 3 %. And when we compare ourselves to economies with which we have many similarities, even because some of them have emerged from a crisis period and, as is normal, after a crisis period, economies have to grow much more — it is certainly not the case of Germany, which some mentioned here in the plenary — we realize that Portugal had much more potential to grow. But if anyone has doubts that reforms bear fruit, there is an area in which we have to put our eyes in fact and where I think that Portugal is an example to follow. This area is the deep reform that was carried out in labour law between 2012 and 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u43	... that allowed us to reverse a cycle that had been living since 2009, rising unemployment—in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 all these years were years of increasing unemployment—and fortunately with a government that had the reformist ability to look to the future and make profound changes, it was possible to reverse that cycle. And many of those who at the time said that the Labour Code was a "labour code to fire", should "put rape in the bag" and realize that this was a Labour Code to hire, investment friend, employment friend, friend of the workers who had an opportunity to return to the labour market. [[PS protests.]] In fact, it is astonishing that at this time the great reform of the Socialist Party in this matter is: do not move. The great reform that the Socialist Party has for the future, in this matter, is not to move and try to resist the appeals of the extreme left to somehow reverse the reform that has been made and that has been very important. But, of course, Mr President, these matters are not solely legal, they also often depend on the practice of governments. That is why I would like to ask you two very focused questions that have exactly to do with this matter. We know that in many industrial sectors — such as the textile sector, the footwear sector, the metal mechanics sector, for example, the metallurgical sector, which are large employers in the country — it is very important to have more qualified people, more people with capacity to enter the same market. For example, in the metallurgical sector, which is perhaps the Portuguese export champion, we have known since 2016 and 2017 that there was a need to hire about 30,000 people. The question I ask you, Mr Commissioner, is in the sense of knowing whether it is normal that, in a sector like this, which still has centres of excellence—and I am reminding myself of a centre that you know as well as I do—the CENFIM (CenfIM Training Centre for Metallurgical and Metallomecan Industry) has, for example, had, in 2016, 21% of your captive operational activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u44	Mr President, you have already exceeded the compensation time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u45	I'm sure Mr. President will give me the same compensation you gave to others. Ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that in your magnanimity you will give me that same compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u46	You better not have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u47	I asked Mr Emídio Guerreiro how it was that he commented that, for example, CENFIM had, in 2016, 21 % of its exploitation affected by captives and that only in 2017, had almost 3 million euros of its result affected by captivating, without, in this sense, having more training and generating more professionals. For example, how does it comment on the fact that the CDS has already achieved, in the State Budget for 2018, to exempt the sector of vocational training from captivating, not allowing the error that was made in 2016 and 2017 to be repeated in 2018?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u49	I would ask you to comment on these matters, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u50	You have the floor to answer Mr Emídio Guerreiro from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u51	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions raised by Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr Pedro Mota Soares. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you are right, the numbers speak for you, and that is exactly why I was careful to show the numbers to 10 years ago, without any embarrassment. at this time, the speaker again displayed the unemployment rate chart ( 2007 - 2018 ) and the real GDP growth rate chart ( 2009 - 2018 ). You really like talking about numbers, but only two years old, and these tests should be done at 10 years, you know? [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u52	But when we remember the evolution of the deficit, these are the numbers. at this time, the speaker again displayed the graph on GDP deficit as a percentage ( 2007 - 2018 ). This is a very difficult legacy, indeed, but that is not the point of this debate. The point of this debate is precisely to look forward, Mr President. In this respect, I would like to say to you that it is very important for us to be able to anticipate those that will be the needs in the future, and that is the debate that is not being held. I would like to point out something that I have said — and well — to answer a question by Mr Mota Soares on the reality we have today. Are we growing more? We are, we are growing since 2014, in 2016 until we grow less than in 2015, but, as I have had the opportunity to say, we want to continue growing more. We need to converge, but for that, we need to help those who are the engines of our development, the engines of our growth, our companies, so that they have the conditions to use the people they need. And that's what we don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u53	We have to do what you didn't do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u54	As has been mentioned, only the metallurgy sector identifies more than 20 000 jobs that are in need of qualified frameworks. The question is that, and that is why this debate is being debated: what is the country doing to meet these challenges?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u56	We cannot manage and govern on a day-to-day basis, on the basis of timely and circumstantial agreements that the four of you have to do every week to stay in power. [[PSD applause.]] We want exactly this debate and Mr Mota Soares understands the answer I am giving him. And that's exactly what? So that in the future we may be quite different, be better and, above all, have a socially more harmonious country and where the rights that you are talking about, and well, are a reality for everyone, regardless of the origin of each one. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the speeches. To that end, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To speak in this House of Economy and Employment on International Women's Day requires that we highlight discrimination at work and assume, once and for all, equality as a factor of development and competitiveness. In 89 countries there are more than 4, 4 million women living with less than 2 dollars a day, this because they devote much of their work to unpaid care. There are about 200 million elderly women living without a regular old age pension, against 115 million men. The challenges faced by women to have decent and decent work, as the International Labour Organization ( ILO) says, are enormous and, if they fail to do so, it is not due to lack of qualifications, but because of deregulation of the labour market. The World Bank, in its 2017 report, says that increasing women's economic opportunities is one of the most powerful ways to grow the global economy and, according to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), if inequality was reduced to half, GDP would grow 6 %, a recognition of the merits of equality in the economy. Women now account for more than 60% of the world's workforce and are majority in the most poorly paid jobs — incredible! The World Bank says that equality is not a kindness to women, it is a factor of development and competitiveness, and calls this 'intelligent economic policies'. In Portugal, 60, 2 % of the population employed in higher education is female and, despite the qualifications of women reflect a relative improvement in their positions on the labour market as qualifications increase, the wage difference is even greater — incredible, is it not? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The presence of women in the best paid places, for example in the board of directors of the companies of the ISP 20, is significantly lower than that of men — 14 % of women and 86% of men. This is called to waste the skills and knowledge of women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unfair that in the twenty-first century in Europe of rights women earn less than 16 % when they perform work of equal value to men, according to Eurostat data this week. This wage inequality in Portugal in 2011 was below the European average was 12, 9 %; today we have a worse situation than the European average, with 17, 5 %. This was the result of austerity policies, which pushed Portugal to be the country with greater growth in the gender wage difference, with more 4, 6 percentage points in five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] In 2016, Mr. Member, it was already possible to stop and begin to reverse this differential in 0, 3. The bet on people has to be really, indisputably the way! However, there are structural imbalances that need to be resolved: there is still a great feminisation of work in traditionally women's activities, such as health and social support — 82 % — and a high rate of masculinization in new technologies — 80 %. According to EU data ( European Union ), if the number of women in ICTs (information and communication technologies) were equal to that of men, there could be a win — listen well! — EUR 9 million per year in terms of GDP in the European Union. [[But there is more: women continue to devote more time to domestic chores and care. In total paid and unpaid work, women work more than 1 hour and 13 minutes a day than men, and this also contributes to the poverty rate of women being higher than men, and the risk of poverty increased significantly between 2011 and 2014.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has taken the path of growth and confidence with this government. We have seen the greatest job creation in the last 19 years, but it is essential that gender inequalities also decrease in the recovery process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2016, a total of 73,5 thousand people retired from unemployment, more than half — 41,5 thousand — were women. The unemployment rate of women decreased by 2, 1 percentage points from 10, 4 % to 8, 3 % between January 2017 and January 2018. in this governance, the agenda for equality at work is strong, because when dignity women's rights, the work is dignified. Civil laws have already been passed that will strengthen the process of change, which has been slow, such as the law of gender balance in companies, the law to prevent sexual harassment at work, the law of the gender participatory budget, and there are new laws that are under discussion and will surely be passed, as is the case with the law to combat wage inequalities. Today, the Government has adopted in the Council of Ministers a package to promote equality, to strengthen the role of women in political and economic leadership. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, women's rights are human rights, and this is not a favour to women, as Antonio Guterres said today. That's why, stop it! Equality is really the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u59	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today proposes a debate on economics and employment. It may be impossible and certainly limited to make this discussion on employment ignoring the impact of successive changes to labour legislation, in particular the latter, promoted by the PSD/CDS government in 2012, first because it is their responsibility, and secondly because it still has the political discharge to present as the key to success for the resumption of employment. Further changes to labour law have always been — but always — in order to withdraw rights. There has always been no reform of labour law which has led to a strengthening of workers' rights and improving their living and working conditions. In fact, this extraordinarily blatant idea that job recovery results from changes to labour legislation promoted by the PSD/CDS Government is an insult. It is an insult to all workers who have imposed a forced and unpaid work week, with the withdrawal of four working days and three working days; it is an insult to all workers who have imposed precariousness as a rule, have embarrassed the value of the compensation and facilitated the dismissal rules; it is an insult to all workers who have increased the working time and have generalized the hours, adaptability and concentrated schedules, to whom they have imposed the 50 % cut in payment of extraordinary work and have eliminated the right to compensatory rest. Success of labour reform for the PSD, and, say, for the CDS, is to present the brutal embarrassment of labour cost and the worsening of exploitation as the decisive factor for the country's competitiveness. In fact, it was interesting to hear Mr Emídio Guerreiro talk about well paid employment and the need for well paid employment, because the PSD/CDS government did nothing but cut wages, cut the value of the cost of work and reduce workers' rights. Defending and imposing in the 21st century working conditions of the 19th century is the success of the PSD and the CDS, in fact. This is its success because this is the political society project that they have, and that is why defeat and removal of the PSD and CDS government was so important to the country and to the workers. But that's also why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code, the end of the expiry of collective bargaining and the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker, the revocation of the hourly banks are as urgent and necessary matters. Moreover, we will have the opportunity to discuss and decide on them on the next day 14, by virtue of the legislative agenda of the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reduction of unemployment is a positive factor; however, this phenomenon continues to reveal worrying dimensions, particularly among young people, women and long-term unemployed. Resumption of employment is important, but it is essential that we have rights. Creating employment with rights is a requirement not only for improving living conditions but also for developing the country. Economic growth is not synonymous with more just distribution of wealth, especially because it is rooted in the creation of precarious employment and low wages. If it is clear that economic growth is the result of options and measures to recover rights and income, a fairer distribution of wealth requires a bet on the recovery of labour and wages, including the minimum wage, from effective combat to precariousness and defense of collective bargaining. There may be economic growth and even concentration of wealth, but this may have no meaning in building a more just, developed and sovereign country. There is no development of the country without defending and strengthening the rights of workers. The rights of workers are in fact a pillar of the democratic regime. We, PCP, will be in front of this fight, responding to our commitment to the workers, and we know that we can count on their determined and courageous fight. And because today the International Women's Day is signed—that nothing more than a day to point out the struggle of every day—it is important to say here that, in the fight against discrimination and equality, we need to move from words to practice, that the equality that exists in the law is the equality that exists in life, because we are far from that reality, it is necessary and urgent that resolutions adopted at the initiative of the CFP, in 2013 and in 2014. If it is true that the former PSD and CDS Government has done nothing to comply with resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic regarding the monitoring of discrimination and inequality, this Government has done nothing yet. It is therefore therefore necessary to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 48/2013, which proposes the preparation of an annual report to be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic containing, inter alia, the salary level taken by women in the Public, Central and Local Administration, as well as in the business sector of the State and the private sector, wage disparities, direct and indirect wage discriminations and monitoring of the volume of lay-offs and closures of enterprises. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we mark here today the International Women's Day, this is a day that is marked for many women in this country: for the workers of Triumph or for the workers of Ricon, who live this day marked by uncertainty about the future, and the obligation of this Parliament, the CFP, is to comply with its requirements, is to ensure that equality passes from the law to life, in which the construction of a better world requires the repeal of the serious standards of the Labour Code. in this regard, the PS has to decide whether it wants a consensus with the rights of workers or whether it wants a consensus with the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u61	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group and Mrs Joana Barata Lopes is registered for intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live the time of the speed of digital and the voracity of immediacy. This constant voracity and innovation shape our lives, the life of all generations. But every new generation of this country, this innovation and voracity will no longer require adaptation, will be the reality they have always known. Also in the political exercise, there are those who prefer to take advantage of the immediate mediatism. Or they go further: they adapt not only the communication, but the policies themselves. It is the strategy of « cool policies », as if the accountability of political action could be measured in likes or visualizations. Those who practice it are deceived, young people who live the voracity of digital have all the capacity to perceive beyond it. Our political action is not, and cannot be, an InstaStory. The new generations do not need and do not accept political decisions as an immediate popularity contest. on the contrary, what we are required to do is to have the ability and courage to make choices, to allow them a country capable of being side by side with this voracity and to give them the tools to follow it. What do we have to tell young people beyond media immediacy? What do we mean to the young Portuguese about the future for which we fight for ourselves and for them? Which country is 10 or 20 years old? Oh, my God! What does this majority have to say to the young people who are at school today? It says that the exams do not matter, that they want young jokes in preference to competent ones. And when the young man laughed to realize that this was the State that didn't have the ability to give him the tools to make him better? Is it cool to say that the exams end because everyone's skills don't need to be evaluated? How cool will it be when the world where these young people are going to live and work tell them: “Show me what makes you different, your skills and why do I bet on you? And they find themselves without the tools they deserve because, in the name of populism and a completely outdated ideological vision of reality, they have removed them from the merit, from the brightness, from the ability to demonstrate the skills that were due them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u63	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u64	PSD will never accept a vision that discourages the culture of merit! We want our young people to have the tools to compete because we, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in them! We know that they are as good or better than any global competition, and we are not afraid of it. What does this government and the majority have to tell young people about the labour market that awaits them? They'll say: youth unemployment is low, everything's fine. It's cool and it's good! How serious is it not to realize what future vision is to ask why we are moving away from the European average? What does it mean to be 20 years old, 10 years old or even further away? What are we doing wrong when we don't assume a problem and we don't give up a solution? And what about the reality that it makes us guess that in just a decade, we're going to be doing professions that we don't even know today? It's cool to cry out for hard work because it's comfortable, immediate and fallacious. [[PS and BE protests.]] And how cool will it be when classic shapes become obsolete? How is this government and the majority preparing to ensure the social protection they claim, when they refuse to understand that the digital age does not fit in the stagnant vision that they fear to defend? Cool policy is that of those who fill their mouths to ensure the social state and refuse to debate the future of old age pensions. It is the policy of those who pretend that this problem does not exist and constantly changes the rules for salvation that is not possible and that each amendment makes every effort fall into the new generations, because when the time comes to pay for this policy and there is no longer any pension to pay pensions, good, whoever is there to settle! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Cool is announcing mission units that don't exist. It is serious to ensure that young people have the conditions to build their lives on where they want to be happy and that this does not limit them to a 20 % range of the country's territory. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u65	I would like to ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members to let the honourable Member finish the speech. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u66	This is the respect that the future deserves for this majority, this government and this socialism: that of the false immediate solution, of the populism of the votes, because preparing the future does not give votes now. Progress does not fight, it is overcome. We do not fear the competition of machines, we want to ensure that our young people are those who will build the best machines! You continue to view digital progress, innovation and reinventing the world as a problem because thinking about the future is a problem for those who do not have the courage to put the interests of Portuguese in front of their party interests. It is not cool the policy that young people underestimate, the policy of those who deduce from their intrinsic value, the policy of those who do not respect them. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Nor is it cool for Members who think they can say everything and can't hear anything! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u67	That was crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u68	Young people demand the courage to uncomfort, young people demand the truth! The President of the PSD said when he closed our Congress: "Governmenting for people is not just distributing sympathy and granting them more and more rights. (...) We must have the greatness of just distributing what is really sustainable—if not, we will be deceiving people(...) ». Each of us here can choose whatever the word is, whatever the way to capture attention, but it can never fail to respect because the truth is more difficult or because it gives less votes. [[PS and BE protests.]] The future depends on this and the new generations too. And let it be clear: it is this greatness that we do not abdicate! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u69	Nice! Cool egg!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u70	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let us return to the debate. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] This debate, subject to the 'economy and employment' theme, comes at the right time, when all macroeconomic data show that there was an alternative — an economic alternative supported in the return of income, social justice, support for businesses and credible and healthy public finances. The numbers tell the truth, they don't lie. Today, we have the greatest growth in the gross domestic product of this century, the lowest unemployment rate of the last 14 years and the best budgetary data of democracy, this budget issue always so expensive to the right of Parliament, but which today is forgotten of its dialectics, as well as the growth sustained through exports of goods and services, which only in 2017 grew 11, 2 %. The past also enters this equation. It is important to remember that not far away in September 2016, we discussed, in this same House, the application of possible sanctions, of course that you are unjust, to our country because the former Government has not fulfilled the budgetary commitments it has established. This because going beyond the troika was also not to grow and that, like any 1 student. the year of Economics knows, leads to serious problems in meeting the budget deficit. At the level of employment, we all remember the unusual invitations to emigration — yes, invitations to emigration! — based on a minimal ideological concept of State. In addition, we remind ourselves of the privatizations to the destruction of essential sectors of the economy — as we have seen in processes such as those of the CTTs, RENs or ANAs — and where the concept of the minimum state has always been the basis. in this philosophical and economic liberal view, unemployment is no more than a natural rate, as problematizes economists who inspired the conceptual model of the previous government, therefore considering that it was not worth having public policies aimed at combating it. The devil, which many announced and desired, did not come, and today we have a PSD, which changed speech, saying that it is necessary to grow more. Yes, it is important to have ever more ambition, but we cannot forget the state in which we were left the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in the economy, one of the sectors where the difference has been marked is in energy policy. We all know that energy, in addition to the source of life, is a crucial factor for the competitiveness of the economy, for environmental sustainability and for consumers. It is important to stress that at the electricity level in 2018 we have seen the first reduction in the last 18 years — yes, the first reduction in the last 18 years! —... [[PSD protests.]] ... in electricity prices for families, by lowering the regulated rate, in addition to a decrease of 4, 4 % in network access rates, allowing an improvement in the competitiveness of companies. At the level of the tariff deficit in this Parliament, a reduction of around 30 % was possible from 5 billion to 3, 6 billion euros. In the meantime, on the subject of the tariff deficit, we have heard only public proclamations, at present it was possible to act, in particular with the reduction in parcels of excessive income, for example, for the purpose of subsidization, for future allowances, the costs of consumers in renewables, or with the reduction by more than 50 % of the production support mechanism, known as a power guarantee. Renewable energy is, of course, crucial for energy independence and for the objectives of economic decarbonisation, which continue to be central to public policies. But the current technological development makes subsidisation indispensable at the cost of consumers, with clear effects on the price of energy. thus, even without the previous tarifffeed-in, today we have seen a clear bet on investments in renewables, in particular through 22 projects of photovoltaic power plants authorized by the government, representing 757 MW of market power. This would be in no way contrary to the rhetoric on the effects of the end of double subsidisation on renewables, where the profitability rates were very high, given that payments of the difference were guaranteed between the costs incurred in the acquisition and the revenues from its sale. Another key point, at the energy policy level, was the creation of the logistics operator for the change of the marketer, the so-called « Power Savings », with a view to providing more information to consumers, facilitating and supporting the change of the electricity or natural gas marketer. In addition, by means of a law approved in the Assembly, consumers can return to the regulated market, which has seen the end of 2017 to 2020 being extended. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these advances were achieved in conjunction with the implementation of automations in the social rate of electricity and natural gas for the most vulnerable consumers, who had a discount of around 33 %, passing the families covered from 80 000 to 800 000. I know it costs Parliament to hear this, since it has always been suspicious and contrary to this automation, but the more than 720 000 families involved will certainly not forget or forgive the inertia and inability to solve the problem. We have done more: in the last State budget, we have opened the debate gap for a solidarity rate in the gas box, which has been approved in the field of debate in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is still much to be done and, in this area of energy, as in the economic area, the party proposing this debate has long been left with no arguments. The path of growth and employment has a fundamental vector in this sector. We need to know how to draw your best possible path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u72	Mr Hugo Costa, Mr Virgílio Macedo, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, was informed. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u73	Mr President, honourable Member, this debate is on economics and employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u74	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u75	We all know that in recent years Portugal has been growing at rates that we should all welcome, although they are not as high as we would like. But it is also good to remember that at the moment we are growing at lower rates than the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union. contrary to what this Government originally intended — to make the economy grow through domestic consumption — it has still been recognised today by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that the economy is growing at the expense of exports and investment. And within the investment, let me stress the importance of external investment, especially investment of a productive character, because that is what will allow our growth to be sustained in the medium term. Mr President, we all know the value that external investors give to confidence, predictability and stability, especially to the stability of legislation, and, within the legislation applied to investments, there is an extremely relevant one, which is labour law. in this sense, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether his Parliamentary Group can give a word of confidence to potential foreign investors; whether his Parliamentary Group can assure them that it agrees with existing labour legislation, whether it intends or intends to propose a change to the Labour Code, as requested by its co-legislation partners, or whether it intends to approve any amendment proposed by the Government. I believe that this is a word owed to foreign investors, who today can think of making an investment in Portugal and who have to know what they have at tax and employment level. Without confidence, without predictability, it is much more difficult for Portugal to capture foreign investment, which — I think it is recognised by all — is essential for this growth path of our economy to continue and be able to consolidate and, eventually, increase. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u76	In reply, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Virgílio Macedo, do not count on the Socialist Party to continue the policy of cutting wages, which was, for years and years, the basis of the economic policy of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to external investors, the fact that we have today the best investment stock data demonstrates the confidence that investors have in Portugal. Example of this is the investment of Google or Amazon in Portugal. It is therefore clear that external investors have confidence in Portugal, with much higher data than your government. I also want to tell you that the Socialist Party's election programme was clear: exports were a model of economic growth. Perhaps Mr. Virgílio Macedo did not read the Socialist Party's economic programme, but he had as its central basis for economic growth the growth of exports. [[PSD protests.]] And exports of goods and services are 11, 2 %. Mr President, we are well aware of the objectives of always talking about labour legislation, but the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group gives every guarantee of fulfilling what is in the Programme and of doing everything together with the parliamentary partners, as well as with the social partners, because these are an essential factor for economic growth. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr. Virgílio Macedo, you can count on the Socialist Party for stability in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The subject which the PSD brings today to the debate in plenary is certainly important, but it does not deceive us in its intentions. It is symptomatic that a right choice ignores its role in history, its role in the destruction of employment and the destruction of labour rights. The right may wish to do so, but workers and workers do not ignore and do not forget that same historical role.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u81	It is really important to understand what the data tell us about employment, its creation and its quality. What we know today is that the unemployment rate increased from 12, 2 % in the third quarter of 2015 to 8, 1 % in the third quarter of 2017. And in that same period, the young unemployment rate increased from 32, 8 % to 23, 5 %. Also since the end of the right-wing governance cycle, 243 000 jobs have been created, of which 166 000 relate to people who were unemployed a year or more ago. They are positive data in the face of the situation left by PSD/CDS governance, that no one forgets, but they still obviously leave a lot of way to walk. During the period of the troika and the Government of the PSD and the CDS, the destruction of employment was the rule supported by the destruction of labour rights. The choices made worsened a situation that was no longer positive. Therefore, to come now to want to make a board of all this responsibility, as if nothing were, is an exercise that remains in their own consciousness, if they still have it in labour matters. Deploying concerns that have never before only caused the mask to fall into the way of doing politics on the right: they erase their responsibility for history and try to deceive those who have destroyed their lives for more than four years. That won't be clear, sirs. Members and Members of Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But today there is a job-related issue that is absolutely incontrovertible. One of the scourges of our society is gender inequality and employment has a fundamental aspect. For this reason, I have already welcomed, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, all the women who, in Portugal and in several countries today, manifest themselves or strike for the recognition of rights and fight for equality and dignity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is a day of struggle for rights that are daily denied to women, and one of the rights that is still lacking is the same wage for equal work. One of the national shames is gender inequality and the wage gap that exists between men and women. Recent Eurostat data show that Portugal was the country of the European Union where the wage gap between men and women grew the most between 2011 and 2016 : 4, 6 %. This reality should be the shame of the PSD today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u83	These data confirm what the Left Block has always said: the precariousness and the 'austerity' policy on the right has led not only to the destruction of employment in general, but also to the reduction of the quality of employment, as well as to the increase of inequalities between men and women. on this day, women know that inequality has grown when PSD and CDS have been in government, they know that gender inequality has grown because of their policies in government. The growth of wage inequality between men and women is frightening and reality is shocking: with the same functions and qualifications, they earn less than 17% than they do. When we look at the wages of the upper tables, the difference is close to 30 %. Therefore, the more qualifications, the greater the wage inequality. We know that when precariousness hits the door to the workplace, women are always the worst. They are therefore also always the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. We know that legislation on the fight against inequalities is urgent, but we also know that this will only be effective when it comes to the serious standards that have been included in the Labour Code on the right, because they have fostered and increased precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u85	The gender issues that today, on 8 March, have to be mentioned are still a barrier to women's progress in the world of work, either because they continue to earn less than men, or because the rights of "parenthood" are not yet equally shared, or because access to top places is still restricted to women in general. [[But gender inequality is not just wage. Women carry the difference in the treatment of workplaces to household and family life, where they spend more than 1 hour daily and 45 minutes of their time than men, and it is not acceptable.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u87	To speak on this Women's Day is to guarantee, by the Left Block, that we will be here every day to fight for the rights that have been denied us successively. Against all conservativeisms and oppressions, for the freedom and affirmation of women's rights, for the defense of the emancipatory demands of women by a more just and equal society there must be the courage to intervene also in the world of work and in labour laws. on 8 March, the challenge is one of the greatest challenges here is in fact to reverse the serious legislation that was included, during the right-wing government, in the Labour Code, regardless of PSD and CDS do not want to take on their responsibility also in gender issues and inequalities that women suffer today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u88	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We note that the PSD came today to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic to do an exercise that, essentially, was no longer the repetition of its manifest demands and orders from the economic groups and their interests, from the very point of view of working relations and the rights of workers. We also had a very interesting dichotomy in the PSD interventions: on the one hand, it maintains its plan and schedule to ensure that the economic groups and employers take on and continue to see their demands and intentions in the expiry of collective bargaining, in the hourly banks, in the adaptability of concentrated hours, in the low wages and then say that workers cannot be found. In other words, what can be seen in the current reality of our economy is that those who, like the PSD and the CDS, have for years imposed a model of precariousness and low wages, a model of misery in wages to workers, who pushed hundreds of thousands of highly qualified workers into emigration, are those who today, in March 2018, come to the Assembly of the Republic that people cannot find who works. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem is precisely in the economic and social model that you have tried to impose on the country, having been defeated by the struggle of the workers, but also of the micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who today have the concrete experience of an economic growth which, fundamentally, results from the dynamisation of the economy, from the dynamisation of domestic demand, taking into account what is the concrete experience of net external demand, that is, of the difficulties we continue to face and which we have to respond in a determined, firm and committed way with regard to the needs of creating conditions for our productive sectors, our national production is able to overcome not only the challenge of exports but the question of replacing imports by national production, because it is not worth exporting in large quantities what essentially results from imports to our economy. Mrs. Members, the fundamental issue is, indeed, an economic and social model. And we have seen today in the results of our economy that not only was it a right, a civilizational issue, a fundamental issue at the social and political level, that it was the return of income and rights to workers and populations, but it was, from the outset, a condition for development, a condition for economic growth, because more purchasing power, more capacity of the people and workers dynamized the economy and generated domestic demand and trade, small entrepreneurs and the national industry also gained from it. This is an issue which the CFP cannot but underline at this stage of the debate. On the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to point out that this is not the same for businesses and entrepreneurs, because while some are concentrating and just talking about what concerns the interests of the large economic groups of multinationals, such investors that you invoke with the question that it is mandatory for workers to live in worse conditions, we call attention to the need to refuse this model and this speech, but at the same time not to forget what is the needs, requirements and commitments of the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, in order to answer the questions that tell the micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We are talking about the end of the special payment on account, which the PSD did not want to support, and voted against. The PSD, I repeat, was against the end of the special payment on account, which continues to severely penalise micro and small entrepreneurs. We continue to raise the question that it is important to implement this measure, which was adopted in the House on a proposal from the CFP, and we also stress the need to take forward the completion of the mandatory regime of the legal review of accounts for microenterprises. These measures are necessary in relation to what is the day-to-day situation of small businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u90	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u91	I should like to conclude by drawing attention to the following: we cannot always put the bill on the needs of our country's economic development on workers. It can't be. It is necessary to face up to the interests set up, but by defending the rights of workers, it is also necessary to safeguard what is placed in relation to micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u92	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the CDS congratulates the PSD on choosing this issue, which is of greatest importance for the country, not only for the country we have today but for the country we want to have tomorrow. Economics and employment is a relationship that is imposed by circumstances and not by ideology. We need a strong job, a good job, a growing job, but this only has sustainability if it is with an equally strong, dynamic economy capable of attracting investment and initiative. On this subject, what we can see, both here in the House and in the government, is a huge hypocrisy and a huge political duplicity, duality of speech and technical duality. Otherwise we'll see, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the government and the institutions of our country are committed to attracting investment. They do so with some meetings around the world, selling Portugal, saying the good things that Portugal has and saying the reasons that should lead investors to invest in Portugal. I have one of these documents with me, which dates from December 2017, which relates to several indicators of Portugal and the structural reforms that have been made. And the first indication we have about what the government and the public administration say is that the great reform that the country has made was a liberal reform... [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Sorry, a job reform, what the parties of the majority denounce as being terrible, provoking the greatest redundancies and the greatest atrocities to human rights. Well, the government out there tells investors that labour reform is a factor of investment attraction. And it is frightening: it is not only about labour reforms, but it also says that these reforms will make any Member who claims to be here in the majority. He also says he came to facilitate dismissal and made it cheaper. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not said by anyone of the terrible majority of PSD and CDS parties! It is you who are in the government and in the public administration who are pursuing investment and who are saying these things. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is too serious for us not to look at reality. If we want to view employment and employment growth in a sustainable way, we have no way of addressing the issue of productivity. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a matter you didn't talk about. And you know why: because when we look at the implementation of the budget, for example, when we look at the budget this year, the government's forecast is that productivity will continue to decline, contrary to what is a demand for the future, a demand that is not happening. And more, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: when we talk about qualified employment, about employment with rights, we should be talking about precariousness, which the Left Block brought to plenary yesterday. That's true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of this House agrees that the government is not opposing, as it should be, the route of precariousness, because the programme which created for this purpose is not being properly implemented, is being executed with enormous incompetence. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more serious than that, and that you forget, is that the state, as an employer, is giving the worst of the examples, because when we look at the execution statistics, the public employment statistics, when we compare the statistics of 2015 with the statistics that we currently have, and which were released in February 2018, we see — they are frightened! — contracts to be concluded in the Public Administration increased by 14 %! We're in shame! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to make a balance sheet, and it cannot fail to be a balance sheet for this government, which is a counter-government, a counter-current government. And for two very simple reasons: when we look at employment data they are clearly favorable. And what does the government want to do? Changing labour legislation. When you should see that labour legislation also supports what is positive developments in job creation and unemployment, the government wants to change that legislation. on the contrary, when we see the path of the economy, still recently disseminated by the European Union, which says that in two years GDP growth in Portugal will fall by about 30 % from 2.7 % to 1.9 %, we should see the government concerned, alarming to move into the economy, attempting to attract investment. But no, we see a government totally in contravention, totally against the current, which does not know where it should be. It is not on the side of history, and we in the CDS will not rest until we run with this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u94	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, as a previous note, I would like to ask Mr Anacoreta Correia not to ruin the good news of the significant growth of employment in Portugal. however, he knows that the biggest productivity growth in Portugal occurred precisely in the recession, when you destroyed jobs as never before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A second note is to say that the PSD has escaped from its own debate that the devil does not escape the cross. And he ran away from his own debate because the country is better, better prepared and back to the growth trajectory that the Portuguese ambitions. Therefore, this debate on economy and employment was timely and welcome: it was time to compare the consequences of very different political options, it was time to confirm that the country's macroeconomic results are not a work of chance, were not influenced by the devil, but also had no divine hand. What has happened in Portugal recently was the demonstration that left-wing policies are not enemies of the growth of wealth or the balance of public accounts. We have gone even further, having been able to demonstrate that it is with policies with the socialist brand that it is possible to achieve more economic growth and less deficit, all at the same time and both with extraordinary results. Those who, by trying to hide the successful path of this government, are wrong to conclude that the growth path has been achieved because the government has implemented right-wing policies. But what right-wing policies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The ones that took away income from civil servants? Those who cut without any sensitivity in social policies? What has led to the greatest increase in taxes in the history of democracy? The ones who cut the pensions in Portugal? What has led to the destruction of the internal market by Portuguese SMEs because of the greatest drop in available income that has ever been seen after 25 April? Those who destroyed the financial system by omissions, lack of commitment and determination in banking reform? Mr President, if these are the right-wing policies that the previous Government has used and abused, we categorically respond that we do not implement these policies. What we did showed is that, in order to achieve more growth, more employment and less deficit, we needed to implement a different programme, we needed to reverse measures from the previous government, we needed to change economic policies and guidelines, above all it was essential to restore confidence in Portuguese and give them hope to bet on their country, whether their families, whether young people or businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr. President, the time on the right has passed and the right has failed. It is not worth, in an exercise of foolish intellectual malabarism, to invent ideological contributions still above for good concrete results that are clear political consequences presented from the first hour by the Socialist Party. Economic growth is therefore the corollary of these results, it is a robust and sustainable growth, and in this process it is time to clarify: we have never claimed that economic growth would be driven by consumption, it is not written anywhere of our programme, but we also never deny that consumption is a fundamental part of the pattern of our growth and that it still reflects the well-being of the citizens. But those who today find it strange that the growth of Portuguese GDP in 2017, the largest of the century, has had as main engines exports and private investment were very entertaining with the expectations that the devil created over the last two years. But for the most attentive, those who have always mistrusted the paths from beyond, this was the same road, not a right-hand route with a left government, but a socialist trajectory of a competent government. That is why we will turn the page and that we have done everything to stop the exit of the Portuguese and stop the fall of the potential product. But that, we knew well, it was only possible to create jobs, and to create jobs was decisive the existence of a dynamic internal market, with confident companies and with a willingness to invest, which was also possible only by returning income to Portuguese. This was the case, not with right-wing policies, but with strict social sensitivity and sense of responsibility, which Portugal has now become one of the most European countries created in recent years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even though the author of the debate has had the courage to ignore the facts and to hide the country's economic behaviour, which is the reflection of the remarkable contribution of all Portuguese and all economic agents in Portugal, he could not fail to remind the Portuguese and the Ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, with great pride and satisfaction, the heritage we are building for the future of Portugal in order to achieve more growth, more employment and less deficit. For example, we are very proud that in 2017 exports of goods and services have grown more than 11 % — grew almost five times more than in 2016. But we are also very proud of the investment data. in fact, the investment showed a record growth of 10 % in the first nine months of the previous year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes 18 years to observe data of this size. Pride is even greater because investment has grown three times as much as that of the euro area and is above the growth recorded by Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands and Austria. But, Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the good performance of the Portuguese economy does not end here. We are also very proud of the behaviour of foreign direct investment. It's true! We do not forget the prognosis on the right, in which no investor would invest in a country governed by the left, that no one would risk putting his money in Portugal. We have heard everything and, despite the damage that this kind of speech could have caused in the options of investors, the facts prove that the way the socialist government is making investors from outside the country satisfied, gives them confidence and, therefore, invest and invest much in the coming times. It sounds like a lie, but there's still more to be proud of: the public accounts. After the social and economic catastrophe caused by the policies on the right, it emerged the hope that, in order to obtain balanced public accounts, it was not necessary to mistreat citizens and extort them almost what they do not have. That is also our pride! The left-wing Government, with the socialist mark, has proven to be possible, in addition to everything I have already said, to manage well the public accounts, a management that allowed the country to lose the lowest of Portuguese democracy, which allowed the fulfilment of the commitments made under the Stability Programme and the consequent exit of the excessive deficit procedure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude by saying that none of this happened by chance. We have implemented a governance model that contrasts with the previous one and that brings good results. With the cooperation of all Portuguese and without hiding in Europe, we show that it is possible to govern thinking about people's happiness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u96	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u97	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I note that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group speaks systematically of the past. We'd rather talk about the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u98	We would rather talk about the proposals that all parliamentary groups have so that in the future the lives of Portuguese are better. [[All right!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u99	It seems that there is suddenly an amnesia with respect to the past, but the accounts of the past are made. The Portuguese have already taken account of the past in the 2011 and 2015 legislative elections. [[PS and BE protests.]] So what the Socialist Party requires is that I look forward to the future, that I do not think about the present, that I think about tomorrow. It is necessary to think of the country here 5 or 10 years ago and to say, for example, what you think of the younger generations, of the thousands of young people who continue to be unemployed and who do not have a response from this government in a highly positive international setting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u101	We should take advantage of the international environment to provide our young people with quality jobs and, above all, hope for the new generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the debate, we have taken action to close the debate. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The debate is now at the end of this afternoon, on the PSD initiative, on economics and employment. If there were to be a balance sheet, what was most impressive was the dazzling attitude that characterizes the discourse of the Socialist Party and the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u104	The government is dazzled with the numbers of economic growth. It is true that numbers are good, but it is also true that they could be better. Most European Union countries are growing more than Portugal. And the countries with which we should compare are almost all growing above 3 %; therefore more than Portugal. Why is this happening, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Because we are growing, only and only, to the blight of Europe's growth. If internal policies helped, Portugal would not only be growing 2, 7 %, it would be growing much more and much more ambitious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u106	More: this growth is made on the basis of the model that PSD has always defended and that PS has always answered. For the government two years ago, consumption is that it would be the great guarantor of the growth of the economy. Two years later, the opposite happens. The two major drivers of our economy's growth are investment and exports. In other words, the disillusionment of the government is only an exercise of political and intellectual arrogance. After all, we are growing up despite the government, without the help of the government and against the model that the government was defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u107	Against everything and everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u108	Above all, it is the merit of entrepreneurs, workers, Europe and the exceptionally favourable conditions that blow us from outside. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government is dazzling with unemployment numbers and it is true that the numbers are positive. There is an increase in job creation and there is a reduction in unemployment. But there is another face to the truth that the Government, the Socialist Party and the radical left-wing parties that support the government cannot ignore: precarious employment has not diminished;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u109	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u110	... wage gap has not decreased; wage inequality between men and women has not diminished or improved; lack of investment in vocational education is a disturbing reality. And there is not even a sketch of reflection on future trends! [[PSD applause.]] What we are most concerned about is that today's young people will have to exercise a profession that is not yet known and does not even exist in the future. In other words, in terms of employment, the Government, the Socialist Party and all the parties that support it do not care about the future and much less about having a strategic vision for the future. The policy they use is that of 'let go', it is everyday politics and they have only a contemplation attitude. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need more employment and also better employment, more skilled and better paid employment, jobs that value women and do not discriminate against them unfairly. We need a stake in education and an investment in training that enables us to face the present more successfully and to face with renewed hope the challenges of the future. We need a government that is less dazzled and more active, less arrogant and more participatory, less rhetorical and more cooperative with civil society, social partners and social dialogue. In short, we need a government that is government and not an election machine of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards labour legislation—which has been mentioned here often this afternoon—the Government is a winding-up: on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays it informs that a radical reform of labour legislation will not be done and that it will only change what is in the Government's programme; on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays it explains that, despite not being in the Government's programme, there are issues that may be changed, without saying what, when and how; and, in the middle, it is still giving way to punctual changes that are being demanded by its coalition partners on the margin and in total disrespect for social dialogue. This winding policy is not good for the economy, it is not good because it does not generate stability, trust, predictability and tranquility. We are in favour of the stability of labour law and the existence of more favourable conditions for domestic and foreign investment. That is why we have made this debate, to show the weaknesses of the government, to affirm our differences and, above all, to show that there is an alternative. We don't need more government, we need better government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u111	We have thus reached the end of the first and only point on our agenda today, which was the debate on economy and employment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u112	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects by lein.o 798 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal and extension of post-doctoral scholarships until compliance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 799 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses ( NAPs ), which fall to 7. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 56 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March approving the competitions for the recruitment of teachers ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolutions No 1392/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the process of classification of national critical infrastructures and the process of validation of operator safety plans by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System ( CDS-PP ), 1391 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent regulation of the Organic Law No 4 / 2017 of 25 August approving and regulating the special procedure for access to telecommunications and Internet data by the Information Officers of the Security Information Service and the Strategic and Defence Information Service, and makes the second amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law on the Organisation of the Judicial System ) ( CDS-PP ), 1388 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cease the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Peniche basin ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1387 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the High School of Rest of Lisbon ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1386 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the necessary measures with a view to establishing an exemption scheme for traditional third island carnival dances and dances, within the scope of the copyright rates ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-08.u113	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting is tomorrow, for 10 hours, and you will have the following agenda: first, discussion of Bill No 110/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of the most accompanying, in place of the institutes of prohibition and incapacity, and of the projects of lein.o 795 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence, ill-treatment, kidnapping or violation of the food obligation ( CDS-PP ), and 796 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), generally together with draft resolution No 1379/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt mechanisms to support decision-making in compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( BE ) ; ( a ) — Creates the order of social workers ( PS ) and 789 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of social workers ( CDS-PP ) ; third, joint assessment of draft resolutions 1325 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( CDS-PP ), 1377 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the protection and requalification of the Forte de Santo António da Barra, Town Hall of Cascais ( BE ), and 1383 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( PAN ) ; fourth, joint debate of draft resolutions 1317 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency Plan for the National Health Service ( PCP ), 1363 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greater autonomy for the hiring of professionals by the entities of the National Health Service ( BE ), 1375 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of current hospitals under public-private partnership ( BE), 1384 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the National Health Service, ensuring that all citizens have access to quality and timely care ( CDS-PP ), and 1385 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan for measures to improve the National Health Service ( PS ) ; fifth, without due time, the projects of lein.o 762 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Bertiandos and Santa Comba, of the municipality of Ponte Lima ( CDS-PP ), 612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Union of Freguesias de Poceirão and Marateca and the parish of Palmela, the municipality of Palmela ( PSD ), and 775 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the territorial administrative limits of the parish of Palmela and the Union of Freguesias de Poceirão and Marateca, in the municipality of Palmela ( PCP ) ; sixth, also timeless, motions for resolutions 61 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 50 ( a ). the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016, and 64 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 56. the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal, on 6 October 2016 ; lastly, statutory votes at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 54 minutes.]]
