ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Our agenda consists in a debate on the Stability Programme 2018 - 2022 and the National Reform Programme, in the evaluation of draft resolutions 1511 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2018 - 2022 and National Reform Plan ( CDS-PP ), 1513 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the Stability and Budget Implementation Programme comply with the deficit limits set out in the approval of the State budget for 2018 and that the registered budget breaks ( BE) are returned to the company ( BE ), 1517 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ), 1518 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By an alternative of more growth and better state ( PSD ) and 1514 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by affirming Portugal's sovereign right to decide its future and by responding to the problems of the country ( CFP ). Mr Pedro Marques, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion on the National Reform Programme ( PNR ) takes place at the time when we have held the debate on the long-term strategic options for the country, to which we have given the name of Portugal 2030. This is a debate that we have prepared properly and in good time, and to this end began, at the end of the first half of 2017, listening to the most relevant and diverse social, economic and then political agents, too. With this process, open and shared, we have managed to build a broad consensus around a vision and an ambition for Portugal for the next decade. A vision that places people at the heart of concerns, which places on innovation and qualifications, which places on strengthening competitiveness, but also cohesion, urban networks and low-density territories, and which ensures the sustainability and value of their resources. In order to achieve these objectives, Portugal effectively needs real reforms. The democratic reforms, which allow us to overcome the lack of historical qualifications in Portuguese society. Reforms that increase social and territorial cohesion. The reforms that drive competitiveness through innovation. For a less attentive observer, it might seem until now we remember the structural reforms. Quite the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms I have announced are being implemented since we arrived at the government. The National Reform Programme that we then presented in 2016 and that we are implementing, with the already known results, represented the beginning of this reformist program of modernization of the country, which should now be continued during this and the next decade. It is with these measures included in the National Reform Programme that we are increasing the qualifications of Portuguese, with measures such as the dynamisation of Qualification Centres, which register about 140 000 adults enrolled to increase their qualifications, or with the fight against school dropout, the rate of which has already fallen significantly since 2014. We are increasing innovation in the economy with the acceleration of Portugal 2020, which registers more than EUR 8 billion of approved business investments or with a substantial strengthening of medium- and high-tech supported investments, but also with the dynamisation of knowledge transfer between universities and companies, which is actually happening with the INTERFACE Programme and with the investment in R & D(research and development) to resume a growth path. But the innovative investment of companies requires capitalised companies and a solid financial system capable of supporting this investment of companies, so the National Reform Programme has not ceased to address this problem. Today, there is already the beginning of the reduction in the indebtedness of the private sector in the Portuguese economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This National Reform Programme has an adverse effect on austerity, and what has proved to be more important measures to strengthen social cohesion. The increase in the minimum wage, the updating of the family allowance for one million children and young people, the updating of the solidarity supplement for the elderly or pensioners, which covered 2, 8 million pensioners, made it possible to improve the income of the population, increasing social cohesion and giving significant encouragement to the economy, through increased demand for businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the measures contained in the National Reform Programme, we are also promoting territorial cohesion. After the paralysis we found that even the projects were not carried out, we launched the 2020 Railway, an ambitious programme for the modernization and construction of railways in about half of the national network, of which we have more than 300 km of works on the ground, at a pace that will continue to develop - by 2020 ; the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto will see their expanded networks and the circulating material will be renewed with an investment exceeding EUR 450 million; the interior territories, which we have chosen as priority since the beginning of the legislature, are central to government action. in this sense, we completed the forest reform, which we had launched long before last summer's fires, and strengthened, reforming, the civil protection system, particularly with the increase of means and the launch of security programs of the populations. The National Reform Programme currently under discussion is a document with structural consistency. Structural coherence with the recent past, which then follows up the reforms initiated in 2016 and which are today enabling the good results that are known in the economic, social field, but also promoting results in the budget perspective. Structural coherence for the future, because the greatest design is to continue the path of cohesion and convergence that we have already demonstrated to achieve with Portugal 2030, which we want to develop in the next decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a document that combines ambition with realism, growth with sustainability, reforms with equity, so that Portugal is finally a country with more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u3	Mr Minister, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I am informed that the Minister will answer together. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Minister Pedro Marques, one of the government's arguments to defend the reduction of the deficit and the payment of debt interest as a priority and at an accelerated rate is the idea that this option will protect us more in the future in the face of any difficulties such as those that the country has experienced in 2011. However, the reality shows that this statement is not confirmed, because if we focus on budgetary resources and political action in reducing the deficit and paying debt interest as the main and virtually central priority of economic and budgetary policy, all the problems that leave the country vulnerable to these external risks will be solved. The central issue is to strengthen our productive capacity and solve, or at least to respond substantially to the country's structural deficits in production, energy, demographic, scientific and technological. What we need is the reverse, that is, to use all the budgetary availability to overcome the country's structural problems, and to that end we need investment. But I'm going further: we don't just need the investment « key in hand », the hiring of a job, the work that can be done. We need to strengthen the structural capacity and technical capacity of national structures—for example, the EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA), railway maintenance, the country's own capacity for maintenance and infrastructure development—we need to invest in the National Health Service and its own capacity, we need to invest in public school and in the renovation of the infrastructure of this measure. That is the answer that we have not found in either of the two documents, because the government has the opposite option, and that is the answer that life shows us that it is necessary to give. With this alternative, with this different policy, our country has a future, but with regard to these documents which the Government presents to us, Minister, we ask whether that is where the country is going, and we have the greatest doubts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u5	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing to this debate the national reform plan which, if noted, is not from today, comes from 2016 and traces a path to the development model that we want for our society in Portugal. over these two years it was possible to demonstrate that the path we have drawn and that we are going is a positive path, it is a path with very positive results for the lives of people. That is why we can say today that the growth of the economy is a reality, that it is in convergence with the European Union — indeed, we are above the European Union average — that the employment rate has risen and that this is positive for the Portuguese when we speak in more than 288 000 new jobs. Today we can say that we have a very significant reduction, just 14 years ago, in the unemployment rate. Today we can say that we are again betting on the qualification of Portuguese, a huge challenge to combat a structural deficit that we have in Portugal. Therefore, the only question I want to ask you is whether it is possible for Mr. Minister of Planning and Infrastructure to explain to this House and to the country what goals we propose with the national reform plan, with the State Budget for 2018, but also with the Stability Programme ( EP ) and the multiannual financial framework, to achieve more public investment, but also to combat a deficit that persists in our society, resulting from what was the policy carried out by the right, which was the impoverishment of Portuguese. If today we are satisfied with the results, it is no less true that we need to continue to fight poverty that still afflicts Portugal. So the question I ask you is whether these are tools to continue the path of these last two years, which are very positive for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u7	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u8	Mr President, Minister, when we talk about reforms—which is something that everyone likes to talk about and that sometimes does not quite understand what they mean by that—there is one that the Greens consider decisive, which is territorial cohesion and the fight against regional asymmetries. Interestingly, the most diverse governments always place territorial cohesion and the fight against regional asymmetries in their programmes. In discursive terms, it seems that everything will be resolved, but then, when they promote concrete policies, these policies have the consequence of accentuating regional asymmetries. There is one issue that, in the perspective of the Greens, is fundamental: the fight against regional asymmetries will never be effectively achieved if there is no such intermediate approach that can give a regional response to what is fundamental, regionalization, because regional thinking is decisive to add local thinking, but also to implement national logic in a regional perspective. I am here to ask the Minister whether or not he is in favour of urgent regionalization in our country. Moreover, when we talk about territorial cohesion, there are key issues, and one of them is obviously employment. No one goes into the interior if he does not have a job and therefore supports the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are or are being created within the country is fundamental. What more are the objectives of support for these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, the government, both in the perspective of agriculture and in the perspective of services, both in the perspective of local markets? Finally, there are many examples we can set. On the other hand, there is also another fundamental issue: we can never talk about territorial cohesion if the territory is not linked, in particular, by means of transport. It's impossible! But we're not just talking about long-term transport, we're also talking about proximity transport. Therefore, implementing a railway connecting the nearby territories is, in our view, fundamental, as it is essential to establish, for example, that positive discrimination that this Government does not want to continue to promote and that the previous government does not want, which is the issue of SCUTs (without costs for the user) without toll. from our perspective, that is decisive, Minister! These are positive discriminations that can be considered temporary, if you want, but that are not temporary at the moment. Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, much more certainly I would say, but because I also want to leave time to ask Mr. Minister for Finance for clarification, I am here. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u9	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the deafening silence on this right, which does not actually come to the debate on the National Reform Programme. It presents some resolutions, it will say some things, but when the time comes to defend or, eventually, contradict the strategic options for the transformation of the country, it refers to silence. Yes, the debate of the National Reform Programme is very important. This document is not subject to any stability programme, because in this government we work for sound public finances, but towards an objective: to give more sustainability to the economic growth and cohesion of this country. The way this right addresses the debate of the National Reform Programme says everything about what was the last government. The obsession with the deficit did not allow, at that time, the structural transformations of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here, in this government and in the majority that supported this government solution, it governs itself with balance, it gives budgetary sustainability to the country — which, in fact, the right has not been able to give in its governance, even though it was obsessed with the deficit — but at the same time makes structural changes. Here—I have been questioned about this— we say 'yes' to the fight against poverty. in this legislature, decisive steps have been taken to resume a path of poverty reduction and the fight against inequalities. And this has been the case throughout the governance period since we have Eurostat statistics, at least since 1995. When the PS was in government, inequalities in Portugal were reduced and poverty was combated. When the right was in the government, poverty again increased in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is again decreasing because this government has once again given priority in the fight against poverty. As regards public investment, it is possible to reconcile sound public finances with a resumption of public investment. After the misery that we found, in which even execution projects existed, public investment in 2017 grew again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u11	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u12	It grew 25%, it's going to grow almost 40% in 2018 and it's going to continue to grow in 2019 because we had to do the housework, we had to do what we didn't do, we prepared the investment cycle, which is now coming to the ground. On the priority investment, yes, on the railway, Mrs Deputy. Yes, the largest investments now in the field of central administration are investments within the country: it is the railway link of Évora to Elvas, which is the largest railway investment of the last 100 years in Portugal — because it has not been built as much a new railway line in Portugal as it has now been launched — but it is also the return of the line between Covilhã and Guarda, which has been closed for a decade. Well, that investment is now on the ground and it is investment in territorial cohesion, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, the resumption of public investment is a reality, because we did the housework, and he is reaching the ground now, in these years of this legislature. But certainly, of all investments, the biggest is investment in qualifications. We are doing the housework, we are doing the work that has already begun to significantly reduce, in this legislature, school dropout, school failure, and this is a way to continue. We have no doubt that the most important reform for the country is that of qualifications, and we also do not have ambiguities in this matter, particularly in the bet on education, in the qualifications of adults. No, we're not diabolicizing adult qualifications. Yes, we have a very important priority, which is to give a new opportunity to those adults who did not have all the opportunities during the school course. Yes, we have taken priority over qualifications in this very symbolic aspect, which is the qualification of our adults. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, despite the silence on the right here on the government side, we shout very loudly: the priority to reforms is effective in this government and it is not because of the budgetary consolidation that is not doing what is important. Budget consolidation frees resources to do what is important in the country and, doing what is important, betting on private investment, bet on public investment, bet on qualifications, a more competitive country is also a country that grows more, and a country that grows more frees better budgetary conditions. Therefore, there is a symbiosis: it is possible to reform the country by maintaining balanced public accounts and balanced public accounts favor the important reforms in the country. That's where we're going to continue. Here, we have only one priority: a more cohesive country, a country with more growth and a more sustainable country. We are all working on that only goal. Our only obsession is Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u13	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The stability programme presented by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic represents our budgetary strategy plan for the period from 2018 to 2022. The policy implemented through the replacement of income, the improvement of wages and rights, as well as the gradual reduction of taxes, has led to good results. This is the policy we propose to give continuity, with more emphasis on investment. The results already achieved allow us to look at the future with confidence, with less risk, but above all with the normalisation of budgetary policy. They thus allow the country to be prepared for the eventuality of an unfavourable environment. There are more and more Portuguese with jobs. Since the beginning of the Legislature, there have been more than 250 000 better jobs, corresponding to 85 % of the job generated in permanent contracts and with better wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We raised the minimum wage and the average wage of the Portuguese economy rose by 3, 3 % in 2016 and 2017. The combined effect of wage and employment growth has led to an increase in the remuneration of Portuguese workers 11 % in the last two years. The Portuguese economy is growing above the European average. Investment increases twice as much as in Europe. Companies and families have access to lower interest rates and sustainably increase their savings. As a percentage, no other country has had such a large reduction in interest in the last year. Public services have more resources. in health in 2018, compared to 2015, the effective expenditure is higher than 700 million euros and there are more 8500 workers, of which 2800 doctors and 4000 nurses. There are also 5200 workers in education, but also, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in culture. We may want more, but we cannot deny the effort that has been made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the period of this Stability Programme, we plan to continue convergence with the European Union, where unemployment continues to fall steadily and with a clear reduction in public indebtedness. Portugal's economic and budgetary performance in 2017 allowed us to say today that we are better. We have less deficits, but we still have deficits. One year ago, we planned an improvement in the 2017 budget balance by 2018 of approximately EUR 960 million. With the 2017 budget performance, this goal could be reviewed. Today, the Stability Programme provides for an improvement in the balance of only EUR 370 million. Today we have a lower deficit reduction than we planned a year ago. This is achieved without calling into question any of the commitments made in the State Budget 2018 or the structural effort to consolidate public accounts. All planned expenditure remains in the budget. In 2018, for the first time in more than a decade, all pensioners will have increases. Structured investment projects are being launched in different areas of public policy. in the first three months of 2018, we recorded a very significant increase in staff expenditure, pension expenditure and expenditure on essential public services. This growth is close to 4 %, but it is made with the sense of responsibility that has guided us and in strict compliance with our commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The challenges of the country must be overcome by building the conditions so that we can use all available budgetary instruments in the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2017 deficit value is historically low in Portugal, but it is a normal value in Europe. In 2017, the vast majority of euro area countries had a lower deficit and the overwhelming majority expected even lower deficits than Portugal for 2018 and 2019. Three years ago, the PS presented a budget plan that offered a political alternative to the country: with investment, especially in people—in a country that defined emigration—with increased income, especially by wagering in job creation; and with consolidation of public accounts, with balance. Yesterday, we heard from the right parliament all sorts of catastrophic predictions. She was wrong and denied the effort of the whole country while she could. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we can see that the objectives we define have been achieved. They were really virtuous and credible. They are the same as we included in this Stability Programme. for the first time in a legislature, three years after its inception, a government maintains its commitment to the Portuguese. We never revive our goals. This credibility capital is the government and it is the one that supports the government. For tomorrow, we aim to establish a primary balance in 2018 and 2019 of 2, 8 % and 3, 2 %, the same values, the same budgetary strategy presented in 2015. For the future, the Stability Programme proposes an inclusive growth path, with responsibility and dialogue in decision-making, but above all with stability and responsibility. The Stability Program is the faithful translation of the word that has characterized this Legislation: credibility. Credibility, because we have the right accounts; credibility, because we have fulfilled the measures we have proposed; credibility, because never before has the performance of the economy benefited so many and all Portuguese. It's for them this stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u15	Mr Minister, you have signed up to ask for clarification, nine Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u16	Mr President, I respond in three rounds of three requests for clarification each.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u17	To make the first request for clarification of this first round, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Minister for Finance, the question of this debate is as follows: why have you chosen to postpone crucial investments in the country for two years and two years, in addition to the goals with Brussels? The Minister will certainly remember the negotiations we had in 2017 and 2018 for these budgets. Every measure, as the Minister well knows, was discussed at the millimeter, was discussed at the top. Let me give you two examples: a few months ago, we agreed, in time to enter the State Budget for 2018, the measure of IRS reduction. The Left Block defended 600 million euros for 2018, the government was advancing with 200 million. in the Budget, the measure of increase of the steps and reduction of the IRS was 400 million. The Minister remembers why it is 400 million and not 600 million. It was not because the government did not want to reduce the IRS—at least that was never said to us—the argument was always the same: we want, but there is no strike. Let me give you another example: a few weeks ago, the Left Block brought the vote, and we voted here, a plan to eliminate the double penalty for those who, with long careers, want to retire. This plan was rejected by the Socialist Party — even though it had been a plan made by the Government — after the Government had withdrawn these intentions. And the government withdrew from these intentions not because it did not believe that these reformers were entitled to their reform with dignity and without penalty, but with one argument: there is no strike, there is no margin. This was systematically the argument put forward by the Government in these negotiations. Therefore, Minister, it is not easy to understand and it is not easy to understand how, months after the negotiations of the State budget and weeks after this early reform plan has been laid down, the Government brings here and sends Brussels a document in which not only takes a strike of EUR 800 million as it states that this strike will not serve for public investment but rather to overcome the Brussels targets. Let me put forward an argument which the Minister will certainly bring. The Left Block does not question compliance with the measures agreed with the left parties. What the Left Block contests is the change of government opinion, which has always said that priority was the recovery of income and investment in public services within the goals of the deficit. This is the basis of the political commitment with the Left Block, Minister, that is the basis of the political commitment with the parliamentary majority. More than that: this is the basis of political commitment with people. This is the basis of the political commitment with the reformers, who have not yet seen the complete and complete reversal of the brutal increase in Vitor Gaspar taxes and wonder why their pension receipt is lower in 2018 than it was in 2010. This is the basis of the commitment of the people who have worked long careers and who legitimately hoped to be able to reform themselves with dignity and without penalty this year. This is the basis of the commitment to doctors who waited months for a contest and were forced to leave the SNS. This is the basis of the commitment with the users, who continue to have to go to the SNS, still having degraded services and lack of staff. This is the basis for the government's commitment to change when the budget strategy has changed. So, Minister, answer — that is the question — because it postpones investments that are important today for the country. The Minister will say that it is on behalf of the Brussels targets. But how is it possible to be on behalf of the Brussels targets if, for months, the goal that was agreed with Brussels of 1, 1 % of GDP was given as good and was accepted as good by Brussels? Is the government going to Brussels now to convince Brussels that after all the 1 % target was too high and that the government can and will do better beyond that goal?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u20	Mr Minister, then the target of 1, 1 % was compatible with the budgetary consolidation objectives four months ago and is now no longer compatible with the budgetary consolidation objectives? I well know that the Minister will then say that, in addition to the deficit targets and reducing the deficit, we do not have to borrow any more money, it is possible to borrow less money. Let me remind you that the current state's financial reserves are more than enough to support the investment of the budget strike without the State's need to ask for new debt and increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u22	Mr Minister, the existence of a budget strike is not, as you present here, a mere accounting exercise, an automatic exercise and algebraic exercise. Allowing the necessary expenditure now is not good budgetary management and, indeed, mismanagement of public resources. It is bad budgetary management, because we must take advantage of a context where interest is exceptionally low to make spending that helps growth, to make spending that supports public services. It is that, Mr Minister, later, when the interest is higher, it will be harder to replace the equipment that is now degraded, it will be harder to supply the staff that is now needed by the SNS and public services, it will be more difficult to invest in the school that is now degraded. Good management of public resources, Minister, is not to prolong inefficiencies in the state, it is not to postpone investments that are needed today and that will be much more expensive in the future if they are not made now. Mr Minister, this strike which now sends to Brussels and assumes, in addition to the Brussels targets, is the result of income returns policies, is the result of the commitment of this parliamentary majority and of the budgets that we have approved and negotiated. What are we gonna do with her? Are we going to improve public services or are we going to show service in Brussels? That is the question of this debate, that is the choice and that is the vote we shall make today in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u23	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister of Finance, the Stability Programme which brings us here does not satisfy us either by the way or by ambition. Contrary to what Mr. Minister said, the way this government chose is very different from the way it had planned before the elections in 2015. First, and above all, because the government has given up reducing the tax burden. The Minister has a very clear fiscal strategy that has three axes: more taxes, more taxes and more taxes! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u25	It is a strategy whose aim is to achieve the greatest tax burden — this objective has effectively achieved it! — the history of democracy, as well as companies and families, but, Mr Minister, with the difference that it is with indirect taxes, which are less visible than direct income taxes. With their government, for every euro they win, families and businesses paid more taxes in 2017 than they ever paid. Mr President, in his own forecasts, he now says that, in relation to this tax burden, it will decrease anything. It's a tenth, Minister, a tenth. And conveniently that tenth would be reduced, possibly, in 2019. Curious and surprising, it is a year of elections! It's just that we all remember that Mr. Minister was already sitting in that chair promising to lower the tax burden. And what happened? The tax burden in 2017 reached its maximum point. Why should we now believe that the tax burden will be reduced, Minister? And what does this record of tax burden serve, after all? The Government has given up public investment, Minister. Investment plans are successively non-compliant. In 2016, it promised an investment level of 2 % of GDP, but dropped to 1, 5 % ; in 2017, it promised 2, 2 %, but remained at 1, 8 % below any of the adjustment years. And we're going to the third year of your government! So it's not the fault of the former government, you've been ruling long enough to be responsible for this...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u26	This? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u27	Now it promises an increase to 2, 3 % of GDP in 2018. How are we going to believe this, Minister? Only that the consequences of this non-compliance are very visible: basic public services are deteriorating—and it does not laugh, Minister, because it has no grace; the National Health System is on its knees, it is a tragedy; public schools have conditions that do not satisfy the minimums for our children; and the tax burden has only served to increase current expenditure. Now, the government promises again that this expenditure will be reduced. For example, intermediate consumption and other expenditure foresees a decrease due to the expenditure review programme. But UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has said in recent days that this is not credible because the Programme is too vague and it is actually expected that these savings will not materialise. These expected savings are at least extremely uncertain. Mr Minister, why should we believe in the effects of the revised expenditure when the Minister and this government have failed in many and all the tax and expenditure promises you made in previous years? But, Minister, the most worrying is the lack of ambition of this government regarding the future of the country. No measures are envisaged, no ambition to make Portugal a more competitive country, nor in tax terms. The growth forecasts by 2022, his own forecasts, Minister, show a slowdown in the economy. More serious: this forecast of growth, which slows down and is totally unsatisfactory, because, contrary to what you say, it does not allow us to converge with the standard of living of most European Union countries — there are more than 20 countries that will grow more than Portugal — it is still optimistic because it is only achieved on the basis of investment forecasts that are unrealistic. And it is not just us who say it, but also the Council of Public Finance says it. Mr Minister, this is a program of stability for an exhausted government, with no new ideas and which only manages day by day, and is very little. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, the CDS knows that this Stability Programme and this National Reform Programme presented today are a missed opportunity. And the CDS didn't remember their disagreements just in the year before the elections. We now do what we have done in the last two years: we reject the EP and present an alternative to the PNR with consistency and consistency.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u31	Mr Minister, clarification is needed. The CDS always defended him, and he defended him from the beginning, sometimes alone, in this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever rejects the EP, who does not agree with the EP, then has to vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u32	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u33	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this EP is a true programme of austerity, and Mr Minister, the 'proof of cotton' of its austerity is the tax burden and the increase in the tax burden. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u34	In 2017 alone, more than EUR 71 billion was raised in taxes. It was the most historical of the tax burden! The Minister spoke to us in rigor and credibility. I wonder how it is possible that Mr. Mário Centeno who chose the criterion of the tax burden to be assessed and that in 2016, when we discussed the 2017 Budget, he came to Parliament to promise a lower tax burden and explained that for every euro of the wealth produced by the Portuguese the State would have less — in reality, he did not comply, the state became more! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u35	You failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u36	... be the same Minister Mário Centeno who now says that, after all, the tax burden is reduced only by surplus. Which one is more credible: the Minister who promised to reduce the tax burden in October 2016 or the Minister who now says that the tax burden should be reduced only by surplus? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, the CDS makes concrete proposals in this area. It makes a proposal for a programmed reduction of the tax burden; it makes a proposal for reintroduction of the family quotient, giving an important and decisive signal to the question of birth; it makes the proposal to resume the fall in the IRC rate, giving a signal to businesses and job creation; and it also makes a proposal to eliminate its overtax on petrol and gasoline. Mr. Minister, the Portuguese, who pay gas and gasoline in the same way as they have more or less money, whether they are poorer or richer, whether they live on the coast or in the interior, if they spend a gas tank per week, in 2018 they pay more € 655 than they paid in 2016. For every 10 € gasoline, more than 6 € are for taxes. Minister Mário Centeno, end this overtax. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u37	To ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor in this round, because we were asked to have only two rounds, the first with requests for clarification of four Mrs. Members and the second with requests for clarification of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor, Mr. Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Finance, the question I want to ask you is not rhetorical, it really lacks an answer. What is most important for the government: the reduction of the budget deficit and public debt to meet all the demands of the European Union and receive a certificate of good students or the response to the country's structural problems, the response to the specific problems that Portuguese people are facing in their daily lives? The problem, Minister, is that the government prioritizes the accelerated reduction of deficit and public debt. This was the case in 2017, when it set a target for the deficit of 1, 6 % of GDP and then ended the year with a deficit of 0, 9 %, and this is how it is in 2018, when the government begins to set a target of 1, 1 % for the deficit and, after four months, to reduce that target to 0, 7 %. This option of the Government for the accelerated reduction of the deficit has a very high price, which is the postponement of the response to the problems of people and the country. Yes, Minister, so that the government can achieve and overcome its deficit objectives and the PS can put the country out of doors to announce the lowest deficit in democracy, the problems remain to be solved. Lack of investment in the National Health Service, public schools, public transport, social security, culture, science and research, security forces and services, justice. Mr Minister, problems accumulate and require a response, but the government insists on focusing on the deficit. And it is not a question of the pace of measures, as the Government likes to say, it is even a question of political choice, an option for submission to the European Union's taxes, which prevents an adequate response to the problems of people and the country. We reject this, because we understand that Portugal's budgetary decisions must be solely and exclusively for the Portuguese people and their sovereign bodies. Finally, Minister, we would like to make it very clear that the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme are the sole responsibility of the Government. The CFP will not have its proposals and its intervention, in particular with regard to the State budget, conditioned by these documents. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u39	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, no, there was no postponement. The expenditure planned for 2017 in the Stability Programme, presented one year ago in this House and the expenditure carried out was 99 %. in fact, by more than 99 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u41	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u42	All expenditure has been carried out, including the objectives for the level of investment, despite the deep delay of European funds, which has come from the beginning of the legislature and which has only now been recovered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u43	What about the IRS? What about the reforms?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u44	Mrs Deputy, no one controls the payment of interest and the interest rate. No one controls. Therefore, we must incorporate, very cautiously, and in a very balanced way, this excellent news, because it is excellent news for the Portuguese society of our fiscal year. And that's exactly what we're doing between 2018 and 2019. We cannot only guarantee the implementation of the 2017 or 2018 budget, we must guarantee the budgetary implementation of the future, because all the measures we are taking must have a sustainable dimension in the future. That is why, together, we have adopted measures for pensions which have this dimension. No one wants to be associated with the adoption of measures that are not enforceable in the future. I want to make the following very clear: there is no goal with Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u45	There's a flying target! The deeper we get, the more she gets away!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u46	When we presented our 2015 financial year, we heard that it did not meet the objectives that could be set precisely with Brussels. Today we are told that we are going beyond Brussels. Madam Member, the objectives set out in the Stability Programme are exactly the same as we have presented to the electorate and which are in the Government Programme. That is, they are exactly the same, to the tenth, which were approved in this House. In this regard, there is nothing to do with the Brussels targets. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is clear that public services require our attention every day. That's why we have 8500 more health professionals, that's why we have 5200 more professionals in education, that's why we're giving a huge priority, at all levels, in public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, this strategy certainly resulted from the policies implemented; but, unlike others you mentioned, it is credible and the others were not. This one's credible, this one's auditable. All accounts are presented and all accounts are beating right. That is what is new in this political cycle and that is what must be valued today. It is clear that we can always complain more — we do so, and we do so together with the Left Block — but we obviously have to do so. And the size of the cost of financing is absolutely crucial so that we can return to a sustainability position for the future and not call into question the measures we have to take in the future. Mrs Inês Domingos, in 2017, the tax burden...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u47	Get up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u48	... was influenced by absolutely extraordinary revenue, and one of these revenue is identified in the Stability Programme — it is EUR 235 million, which is more than a tenth in GDP of an absolutely one-off tax revenue, absolutely temporary, and which should not be used by the honourable Member, if you want to understand what the accounts are. The honourable Member has made a big difference in the budgetary accounts, but she does not really know them. We cannot associate the increase in the tax burden with the extraordinary behaviour of the employment rate, which is, in fact, the best possible social security for future pensions that is happening in Portugal today. The workers took home between 2016 and 2017, 11 % increase in remuneration. The honourable Member can't forget that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is not responsible for 'this', which is the way the Portuguese economy is concerned. Who is responsible for the biggest fall in interest rates, for the higher fall in unemployment rate and for the higher increase in employment rate is the policy of this government, not the Member of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, of course, « lost her foot ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u49	Oh, of course! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u50	The truth is they've lowered tax rates. In 2018, you lowered the IRS paid for all—all! — Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u51	But the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) has risen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u52	All Portuguese families pay less IRS in 2018 than they paid in 2017. in the period when the honourable Member was in the government, it happened exactly the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we have also lowered the VAT of restoration, a measure for which, in fact, the honourable Member has been against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u53	The ISP has come up! Why don't you talk about other taxes that went up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u54	We lowered the VAT from the restaurant and we lowered very varied tax rates. That is why it is the opposite of what the honourable Member has said. Mr Paulo Sá, the investment is obviously of fundamental importance for the future of the Portuguese economy. The problems have accumulated and have to be solved, with sustainable financial conditions and with a view to the future. Strengthening the personnel resources we have been implementing in the Portuguese Public Administration is very significant. That is our political option, and it is a credible political option and clearly presented in these documents. There is no objective that is not explained to the Portuguese. The Stability Programme is not discussed in Brussels, it is discussed in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u55	Mr Minister, we move on to the second group of requests for clarification. Mr João Paulo Correia now has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, there are two charges that cannot be made to the Government and the Stability Programme. They cannot accuse this Stability Programme of concealing additional measures or extraordinary measures which are being negotiated with Brussels to be announced within weeks or months. And it does not hide because the government, in these two and a half years of governance, has used the Portuguese to meet its goals, which is a gain of internal and external credibility that puts our country on a path of trust with Europe, with investors, with consumers, businesses and families. Nor can they accuse this Government and this Stability Programme of sacrificing any measure that has been taken by the Government in these two and a half years in respect of the replacement of income, the replacement of rights and the extraordinary updating of pensions. These are accusations that cannot be made to the Government and the Stability Programme. A lot has been said about the increase in tax burden. This myth should be dispelled by the increase in tax burden, because it is confused with the increase in tax revenue. Mr Minister, is it not true that the tax revenue which has increased — for example, VAT revenue, IRC revenue and even social security contributions — results from the increase in economic growth and, in the case of VAT, has to do with the increase in tourism activity and, in the case of social security contributions, has to do with the increase in the employment rate above the best forecasts? Is it or is it not true that this tax revenue is based on taxes and contributions that have not increased and, in some cases, have even decreased? Minister, is it not true that, between 2011 and 2015, the former Government cut EUR 1100 million in the National Health Service and cut EUR 360 million in staff affected by the National Health Service, which during that time represented fewer doctors, fewer nurses and less technicians? Finally, Mr Minister, asking another question: is it true that this Stability Programme strengthens investment in health, education and rail? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u57	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister of Finance, I do not resist saying that it is almost natural to see this form of debate between the Left Block and the Government in a delicate tone, addressing matters that were pending at the Wednesday meetings and recalling commitments that no one else knows. It's funny, it's nice to see and it's almost tender enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u60	I also record the number of times the Communist Party here "restrains the garments" to defend the causes, being all together at the end of the day, to sign and, above all, to vote on the State budget, which makes all this possible. In fact, there is a contradiction here that I cannot understand, but record the effort. It's enough until it's tender to watch this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u61	What we've recorded is the awkwardness of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u62	In fact, the Minister has a characteristic. It is because you have already answered the questions, I have already said that there is no increase in taxes, nor tax burden—in fact, it is the greatest of all — which makes you practically the sheriff of Nottingham, in an attempt to collect everything that can be collected, but you have to pronounce yourself on a matter: when a citizen is going to supply his car, even the one who just picks up the car once a week, pays the diesel at almost 1, 5 €, that is, at the price at which we paid him when oil cost twice as much as it costs today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u63	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u64	Even the most remedied families, when they come out with their children and decide to do the same as other families with more possessions, such as buying a coke or a croissant to their children, pay more because you have raised taxes on these products. [[PS protests.]] In fact, this is all — if I may say so — a great hypocrisy, because you penalise people, you continue to penalize people and businesses, and you keep insisting that the greatest tax burden of all time does not, in practice, result in the increase of a different set of taxes and indirectly. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u65	Mariana Mortágua, the « educator of the people»!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u66	Likewise, when a citizen buys a TV with benefits he also pays more tax, because you have increased the seal tax for that purpose. It must therefore be a little more rigorous and assume that they have chosen to penalize everyone through indirect taxes — those that see less. Mr. Minister is part of a team that in 2015 presented a model that would guarantee levels of growth in the country never seen. however, this government is in the third year of governance and the truth is that in the first year growth levels were lower than in the last year of the previous government; in the second year they have already risen; and now that we are in the third year, they are satisfied because growth has reached 2, 7%, which is a good number but which is far from your 2015 forecasts. And more: it is far below the growth levels of the 21 countries of our European Union partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u68	But from what you can see, there is a particularity: this is the great year of the party. It is that when we see your documents, we see that growth levels will fall by year. Mr Minister, since they did not reach the goals that were proposed and idealized by themselves and by their team in 2015, and being still far from 3 % that everyone said were fundamental, why is it that from 2019 onwards growth levels will already fall again. Is there anything to do with the learnings they had between 2005 and 2011? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u69	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, let me begin by saying that this debate has already revealed that the PSD and the CDS have an undoubtedness, but a lady gets rid of it! , when you come here to talk about high taxes when you were the promoters of the "great increase in taxes" said by the mouth of the then Minister of Finance Victor Gaspar. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] We did not classify them that way, but those who felt it were the Portuguese — a brutal increase in taxes! This is indeed a huge undoing on your part! You want a blackout about the past, but that can't be! [[PSD protests.]] Above all, because they intend to maintain this policy during this legislature if they had formed a government. Minister, let's talk about the political options of the current government. The fact is that in 2017 the government had committed itself to a deficit of 1, 6 %, which resulted in a deficit of 0, 9 %, which means a margin of 1400 million euros. For 2018, it seems, we are going along the same path, i.e. the deficit target that was proposed was 1, 1 % and what the government is proposing is 0, 7 %, i.e. with a margin of EUR 800 million. EUR 800 million, Minister for Finance! And the government is refusing to give more EUR 6 million for culture to cover the EUR 25 million that cultural agents, artistic creation, need in Portugal. Well, isn't this a brutal contradiction? Oh, my God! And is it not a complete reversal of the priorities that the country needs? Oh, my God! in health, what would be worth these EUR 1400 million in one year and the 800 million in the other? in education, what would that mean? Look, in an issue that I raised a little while ago, which has to be a country's priority objective, and which is related to territorial cohesion, what would it take to extend in terms of investment, i.e. to respond more rapidly to those that are the needs of our peoples, our people, our territory and our resources? Therefore, Mr Minister, this obsession with the deficit, which I cannot classify in any other way, is starting to bother us, because, unlike what Mr. Prime Minister said here in the last fortnight's debate on State budget for State budgets, it is not easier to negotiate; it becomes more difficult, because the constraints that the government is imposing on Brussels are getting bigger and bigger, and that is not good for the country. So, Minister, we have two options: obsession with the deficit or investment that the country needs, and that does not mean uncontrolled public accounts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u71	To request clarification, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, this week in which we discussed the Stability Programme, the President of the Republic has appealed to the Government to invest in this path of de-investment in health which has been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u73	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u74	It is a real disinvestment that is shown in numbers and that feels in the lives of people, both patients and professionals. But let's go to numbers: according to your figures in the Stability Programme, a GDP for 2018 is expected to be around EUR 200 billion, of which only EUR 9667 million will be invested in health—4,8 % of the health GDP. This is the lowest value in the last 20 years, the third lowest investment in the health of Europe. Worse than us only Latvia and Lithuania. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u75	Despite this disinvestment, we could ask: will there at least be investment in infrastructure? In new hospitals? But not for that. We look at the Stability Programme and the only hospital in which, in fact, there will seem to be, because there is a competition — it is a public-private partnership, curiously with the support of the PCP and BE, in Eastern Lisbon — is the Hospital de Todos-Santos. What about Évora and Seixal? Maybe it'll happen! In Sintra, it's not a hospital that's going to be built, it's a clinic, and it's going to be paid by the House. in Madeira, it is still under analysis, as if further analysis was needed. And, shamelessly, they forget to refer to Coimbra's motherhood or the Algarve hospital, which has been said to be a priority. We still see that there is no real bet in primary care. The bet on family physicians for all users continues to be a mirage, we remain far below the goal of family health units, continuous care beds, palliatives. None of this is a priority for the government, which translates into worse health for the Portuguese. In some cases, waiting times for a first specialty consultation reach the three years. in the case of diabetes, there is an increase in the burden of disease — we have more than 1, 3 million Portuguese with diabetes, and these numbers increase from year to year. As for health professionals, still today, Minister of Finance, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians are on strike. You, in the Commission's office, had said that you had solved the problem, but after all, the collective agreement is to be signed. Like doctors, in relation to nurses and other professionals, we see that the numbers that Mr. Minister announces of contracts are insufficient, they are not even enough to cover, to break the 35-hour event. Unfortunately, the Stability Programme reflects what we have seen on the ground, i.e. that health is not a priority for this government. We need less words and more action, we need to invest more in the health of Portuguese. For when, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u76	To conclude this group of requests for clarification, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Minister Mário Centeno, we arrived at the debate on the implementation of the National Reform Plan and the Stability and Growth Programme with a deficit target of 0,7 %, indicator that exceeded the estimates of a few months ago. This new goal enables an additional financial cushion of around EUR 1000 million. In view of this data, the government's political option is to maintain this new deficit target, not to make additional public investments and to try to reduce public debt. We would like to know the criteria that lead the Government to opt for this solution and not to take advantage of this budgetary margin to invest in sectors that we all know need to be strengthened, such as health, public school, culture or the environment. What is it that the Minister for the Environment, what is it that the Portuguese and the country, what we all gain in the medium and long term with this option from the government, as opposed to possible public investments with immediate benefits in fundamental sectors that are, we all know, weakened?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u78	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u79	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, it is true that there is a certain confusion between tax revenue and tax burden. The increase in the ratio indicator between revenue and GDP actually results in taxes where no change in rates has occurred. This is certainly true at the contribution rate for social security, where we all know that it is the very strong growth in employment and wages that justifies the evolution of the indicator, in IRC and in VAT. in the IRC, further, in 2017, there is an extraordinary revenue of 235 million euros, non-repeatable, and that will therefore not be repeated in 2018 and that is taken into account in this analysis. It is also true that after a fall of EUR 1100 million in four years, he recovered between 2016, 2017 and 2018, EUR 700 million and is growing, in figures comparing the beginning of 2018 with the beginning of 2015, 13 %. This is the reality! This is the investment we've made in health. And it is also true that there is a strengthening of investment in strategic areas - clearly identified in the Stability Programme - and that these investments will continue to be made. Mr Emídio Guerreiro here called for the control of consumer credit, particularly the consumption of environmentally harmful products. It is a possible strategy, but it is not the strategy of this government. It is true that the control of consumer credit, in the example that you have just given, is a very clear economic policy measure. It is not because of tax revenue, Mr, because the tax revenue of this increase is very low ; it is because of the fact that we should, in a macro-prudential way, give consumers in this country access to credit and not live the problems that we have been living for a long time. The truth is, Mr President, that the macroeconomic scenario is also being fulfilled in the dimensions in which you referred. The nominal GDP, which we thought grew 16, 4 % between 2015 and 2018 will grow 16 %, which is a very small difference. Exports will grow by more than 2% than what we had in the macroeconomic scenario. The truth is that the macroeconomic scenario is being fulfilled not only in the budgetary dimension but also in the macroeconomic dimension. This scenario was very misunderstood when it was presented and today they have not yet had the opportunity to understand. But the truth is that when this government took possession of the Portuguese economy it was stopped. The Portuguese economy ceased to grow in the second half of 2015. And you were standing there and you know why? Because we were entertained in «tototo taxes», such as in the fable of the return of the overtax. The truth is that the overtax has been returned to the Portuguese in a phased manner by this government, as planned and in a responsible manner. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u80	Mr. Minister, you've outlived your time. I ask you to be synthetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u81	I will conclude, Mr President, and I will be quick to answer these last questions. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, the truth is that the increase in taxes had been colossal- was the term that was used- and there is no budget strike. in fact, there is no budget strike. Today we have less EUR 455 million of interest paid, EUR 1000 million at the end of the Stability Programme, but this dimension has to be guarded because otherwise, as they have appeared and disappeared, they will appear again, Mrs Deputy. Sustainability...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u82	I wanted to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u83	The sustainability- also to respond to Mr André Silva - of the policies must be analysed within the framework of the Stability Programme in a logic of balance and of strengthening budgetary conditions. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I would like to know what the honourable Member has suffered over four years when health has lost EUR 1100 million. The truth is that we reject these values today, reject employment and reject investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to enter the reporting period of the various draft resolutions under discussion. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to present draft resolution No 1511 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the third Stability and National Reform Programme presented by the Government of the Socialist Party with the support of BE, PCP and ENP. for the third time, we realize that it is not the Government of the left-wing 'twined' who will ensure the changes we need to consolidate the growth of our economy. in an increasingly global, fast and competitive world, ambition, spirit and reformist action are expected. however, the plan presented by the government reveals, for the third time consecutive, immobilism, conformism, reforming paralysis - the "little socialist" - all disguised with a budgetary varnish that suddenly became the alpha and omega of this government. It follows that this budgetary performance is based on the worsening tax burden, a colossal tax burden, the highest in the last 22 years, and a deliberate option for consolidation at the expense of public services quality. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is not therefore a government with a bad national reform plan; it is a bad government with a bad national reform plan, which is based on a poor and irresponsible budget strategy. It will not be the CDS to question the need to consolidate public accounts. Faced with the difficulties and blockades that Portugal still faces — the third largest debt of the European Union, the second largest deficit of the European Union, the declining productivity, the consolidation of finances is an absolutely essential condition for correcting imbalances and for installing the confidence that enables solid, sustained and sustainable growth. What is at stake is the way the government is doing this same consolidation. We cannot ignore that the government's option was to raise as much tax as possible—see the case of fuel tax, in which every 10 € of petrol 6, 20 € goes straight to the financial stock — and to bring down all cuts in spending on public services, starting from a principle that is deeply unfair and penalizing, but that has never been declared — that it is preferable to exchange the satisfaction of the users for the satisfaction of the employees. It must not be so, it should not be so, because it is not possible to look at public services ignoring, not wanting to know, placing their financing needs in the drawer and, above all, their already-affected investment needs, which have suffered so much during the bankruptcy period. There was a faster replacement of incomes, yes, a replacement that we did not question and that we defended at a different rate. But there was a much more significant reduction in public investment in these areas, with a particular impact on investment expenditure, and the case of health is paradigmatic, where there was a 25% reduction in investment expenditure. The result is seen: a huge fragility in the social response in the fields of health, education, transport, vocational training and social protection. And millions of euros captivated. It's tires of the drawer. And millions of users waiting for a spending permit that never comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u86	And what did you guys do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u87	There is no austerity page to be seen when public services collapse only for the Minister to make a budgetary shine. But the method of budgetary consolidation is also at stake. The CDS believes that in order to set up a fiscal consolidation strategy that leads to sustainable and lasting growth, the State must certainly count on the help of the numerator — the deficit — but it also has to count on the help of the denominator — the product and its growth. That is why we need sustainable and lasting reforms, which fall within European rules — obligations that are not negligible for our country — and which prevent Portugal from falling back into a situation of dependence on external creditors similar to that which the PS put us in in 2011. A colossal tax burden — the highest ever — suffocates the sustained growth of the economy and makes it impossible to make decisions that correctly reduce the State's weight. Can you believe in a government that, in a world so dominated by change, refuses to change anything? Is a government which, by its own conviction or by the order of its supporters, refuses to modernise the country, to make any reform? And, Mr. Minister of Finance, it is not serious, in 2018, in the face of the biggest tax and tax burden that there is memory, to come to say that only there by 2022 is that there will be margin to lower the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u88	The IRS has come down this year! And last year and the other year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u89	The minister of finance who does so is a mixture of paper and banana seller of the snake. It opens here today a new discipline: the fiscal horoscope. There is a forecast there for 2022 that, eventually, we can come down the income tax. It's not serious, Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]] for our part, what we propose in tax matters is simple. First, we propose that the Government abide by the words that it gave to the Portuguese people and that it now, with immediate effect, lower the overtax of 6 cents which it placed on gas oil and gasoline, saying that it wanted to guarantee fiscal neutrality. Buy the word you've given, Minister! Put this tax down now! Secondly, we propose that the Government resume the family quotient in IRS by helping families with children and those who want to have more children, promoting the birth rate that our country needs so much, but also ensuring greater social justice, as was explicitly stated in the last report of the European Commission, which says that the new model of IRS is more unfair and unequal. Thirdly, we propose that the planned decline in the IRC rate be resumed, 1 point per year, up to 17 %, helping to recover the domestic and external investment, especially the industrial base, which has been falling since 2015. Fourth: we propose that we create a tax benefit status for the interior of the country, which creates a tax and regulatory free zone that makes the interior of Portugal the best area of Europe to test itself an idea, to test a business, thus promoting territorial cohesion. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Fifth:We propose that it include in the stability plan 2018 - 2022 a sustained and programmed decline over the next few years of the tax burden, with a special impact on investment attraction, economic growth and relief of the tax burden on families. This is the third time the CDS takes this Stability Programme to the vote. Next Thursday we will have to have a clarification here. The Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens have time, until the vote, to think about it, have a good solution: they vote on the resolution of the CDS which rejects this Stability Programme. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u90	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Mr João Galamba has signed up for clarification, but he has no time to answer. I do not know whether Mr Galamba maintains the registration to make the request for clarification, which will then have no answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u91	Mr. President, I am keeping the record.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u92	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has now invented a new fashion, which is making fish surrender every year by inventing tax increases that have not occurred. [[PS laughter.]] Mr. Member, there was no increase in ISP in 2016, 2017 and 2018. There was an increase in the ISP in 2016, which is not even the one you mentioned because, yes, the ISP increased 6 cents in early 2016, but then went down 2. Not even the 6 cents it refers to and, above all, are not the 6 cents in all these years; the increase was made once in 2016. The fact that there is no increase in the ISP in 2018 and the CDS is going to reintroduce an increase in taxes that happened two years ago is quite revealing the fact that the CDS is talking about a Stability Program and a reality that does not exist. We got to the point — to the ridiculous! — Mr President, ask the Minister for Finance to lower a tax which has just dropped. The honourable Member said: « Descend the IRS». But the IRS has come down this year. In fact, it dropped in 2016, fell in 2017 and will download in 2018 and 2019, because the low announced in this Budget has a impact in two years. Therefore, there are four years followed by reduction of IRS. You have increased the IRS by EUR 3000 million. This government and this majority — in decisions already taken — is not to be taken — it has dropped to 1500 million, Mr President! So what you want is to get even more down than you already have! If we have room for this, we will do so - but Mr President, at least you have to recognize the tax cuts that have already existed. On the family quotient, let's see if we understand: we realize that the CDS wants to return to a world of strong regression in the IRS, in which a son of a rich man is worth much more, much more, than a son of a poor man. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u94	But what this government did, Mr President, was not to give at least one cent to families with children, it was to give many more cents, even more euros to all families with children, either through the IRS, making equal the support which you have become unequal and now increasing a very important amount of money—because a significant part of the Portuguese families does not pay the IRS—which is by way of payment, which has been increased, and so, Mr President, RSI, in which you have harmed thousands of Portuguese families and which this Government has increased. Therefore, Mr Deputy, to conclude, for less than IRS, it is already done and is in progress. As for greater social justice and support for families, it is also done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u95	Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, the PS is giving the CDS 20 seconds to respond. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u96	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the PS for giving up time. Mr. João Galamba, I remember when you complained about the huge increase in taxes. Mr. Deputies, look at the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u97	That's what I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u98	This huge increase in taxes has now been exceeded by the highest tax and contribution burden of all time. It's a colossal tax burden! And the responsibility for this tax burden lies with the government that you support in conjunction with the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u99	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u100	I am still taking advantage of two questions. First, in relation to fuel tax,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u101	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u102	... you know it was this government that promised fiscal neutrality, that is, if oil went up and collected more in VAT it would lower the ISP. It was this government that failed to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u103	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u104	By the way, Mr President, on the IRS, I recommend to you only reading the report of the European Commission. It is the European Commission that says that this model of IRS is more unequal, more unfair and, therefore, the model of family quotient is more fair for families and, above all, enables and promotes birth, which we need very much in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u105	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: When we started this political process of reintroduction of income, soon in the first discussions came on the table to such a famous phrase of « turning the page of austerity ». The translation of this term by Mr. Minister of Finance here in the Assembly of the Republic was as follows: « turning the page of austerity does not mean governing without rigor and without requirement outside a framework of restrictions; it means, on the contrary, having the exact notion of the problems faced by the country and its causes, but having the courage and determination to make choices to solve them». He continued: « The State must at every moment analyse what the economy transmits and adjusts its policy in order to enhance economic growth and social justice». This is a fundamental point for today's debate: at every moment we can analyze what the economy transmits to you. Therefore, Mr Minister of Finance, what we are discussing today in the Assembly of the Republic, is the confrontation with the words of the Minister, in this House of the Republic, and with the words of the Government in pursuing a different economic policy and social justice of valuing public services. Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, when we discussed the State Budget for 2018 : « We want to strengthen investment in the area of culture, education, science and health, but we do not have a financial strike and, therefore, we cannot take any further step than the leg». What has changed, then, since 2015? What has changed since November 2018? What has changed, then, in four months, since this State Budget is being taken forward? And the answer is: nothing worthy of the review of the deficit target and, above all, everything that justifies the maintenance of the political line defended by the government itself when discussing the State Budget for 2018. When we found that there was a budget strike in 2017 that promotes an improvement in public accounts for 2018, the unequivocal question is what to do with this budget strike? And the strange answer to a Minister of Finance that gave the answer he made in 2015, which made the promises he made in 2018 and to a Prime Minister who guarantees that priority was the social state, public services, health and education, is that, after all, this strike is directed to an abstract goal of deficit, for Brussels to see, but for public services to continue to suffer. That is, for us, not understandable. from the Left Block, we defend credibility and stability. Interestingly, the same words that Mr. Minister for Finance said here today: credibility and stability. The credibility of a government that has a word and does not run away from it, which says that priority is the revalidation and appreciation of public services, which is the priority it takes when it can do so. The stability of those who, in the middle of the year, will not review targets of the deficit without anything extraordinary has happened, and that is the stability that we demand. Because deferring the expenditure necessary for the implementation of the budget is not a good execution for public services. What did the Minister for Finance say about this, not long ago? He said: « We do not align ourselves with the strategy of destruction of state services, that is, a spending policy». Now, Mr Minister for Finance, it is precisely to avoid this spending that we want the Government to keep what it has proposed to the Assembly of the Republic and that the Assembly of the Republic has approved. It is that you do not review the goals of the deficit, which, in the event of a strike, is not for a spending policy that leaves public services again without the necessary investment. That's the fundamental part of the Left Block proposal that's on the table. The challenge here is for all Members of Parliament and all the Members who voted on the State budget, telling them that there was no strike, in particular for the Members of Parliament and for the Members of the Commission. Members of the Socialist Party. I imagine that all of you, like the Members and Members of the Left Block, want a better National Health Service, want to tell doctors in need of public health, teachers who are valued in public school, Portuguese and Portuguese, all citizens and all citizens who have quality public services that do not leave them behind or lack them when they need them. So I ask: what is more important? Deficit targets, without any type of validity for Brussels, which do not require them, without any change in public debt, because there is no change — the maintenance of public investment and the targets of the deficit are planned up to the government's budgetary margin — or the guarantee to respond to those and those who in 2015 began to believe that there was a policy different from the one with which the right to govern the country for four years? Oh, my God! That is the essential answer. from the Left Block, we didn't miss our word. We said that we would be here to support State budgets that would ensure the valorization of public services, we would be here to dispute all budgetary strikes to do what has not been done before and to rescue public services from the destruction of the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u107	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u108	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we remain equal in our speech and in what we voted in the State Budget for 2018. We find it strange that, on behalf of the deficit, the government wants to make a difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u109	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u110	It is up to the Members of Parliament and the Members who have voted on the Budget to tell the Government that it does not count on us to shine in Brussels while public services suffer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u111	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation similar to that of a few years ago, i.e. you have entered to ask for clarifications by Mr Carlos Peixoto and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has no time to answer. If Mr. Carlos Peixoto still wants to intervene, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Today we are debating the Government's Stability Programme, but we can also discuss the « instability programme » of the Left Block. The Block is against the goals of the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u113	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u114	The Block assumes that the government's strategy is wrong. The Block thinks the Country is on the wrong track with this Stability Program. The Block even says, without popes in the language, that the government did not respect the objectives it had set in negotiations with it for the State Budget for 2018. The Bloc, faithful and lasting support of the government, is therefore presented here as a repugnant, disrespectful and disrespectful victim by the government. In good Portuguese, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what this means is that Dr. António Costa is « doing cat-sapato» from the Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u116	... obliging them to « swallow frogs», without becoming infatuated, because, in the face of the word given and unhonored, the Bloc, in the good style of those who say « hold me, but I kill them», is not able to be consistent and follow its course, preferring to nest under the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u117	But wasn't it the opposite? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u118	...as a wolf with lamb's skin. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u119	If the PS, as they say, does not want to comply with the agreements he has made with the Left Block, we need to ask whether you feel good about it or, on the contrary, if you feel used and discarded. Better it is not possible to hear the leader of the Left Block, when he claims that Dr. Centeno is doing the same as Dr. Vítor Gaspar, that the Block has criticized impedibly — do you remember? Oh, my God! — being the maximum exponent of austerity. So, and now, after you have found this new austere, but with the 2017 / 2018 version, and if you are against the government's path, are you willing to make this government solution work? Oh, my God! Are you willing to enable the next State budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u120	Don't you have anything else to say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u121	Say there what will you do if the Socialist Party does not vote for your draft resolution, how does everything indicate what is going to happen? Oh, my God! Please clarify there if you are going to continue "married" until the end or if your contract is broken. The time has come, sirs. Members, to clarify whether or not they want to adhere to your principles and convictions or whether they prefer to continue to be puppets of the Socialist Party, approving what they do not want to be approved. Please take your idea to the end or everything they have tried does not pass a completely indistinct stage. To finish, let's see if we understand each other: are you or aren't you, all of you, Centeno? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u122	That's past week!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u123	If they are not, they apologize to the Portuguese for the fierce criticism they have made to the previous government, who tried to control the deficit ; if they are, they assume - at one time. There's only one way left. Be consistent and have the courage to take away the carpet that has been kept under your feet for more than three years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u124	They wanted to! To give it to you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u125	You now have the floor, for an intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u126	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u127	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u128	For an appeal to the Bureau, on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u129	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u130	Mr President, I would like to ask whether what we saw on the part of the PSD was a question or an intervention, because if it was a question...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u131	It was a question for which the Left Block does not have time, as happened a little while ago, with the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u132	But if the PSD gives us time, we can answer the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u133	You don't mind repeating it, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u134	I imagine the PSD will be interested in hearing an answer, so if it gives us time, we can...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u135	Mr President, this is a matter where the Bureau does not usually intervene. Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u136	Mr President, we would like to give time to the Left Block, but the time we have is managed so that the next colleagues can make other speeches. So the Left Block will respond later.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u137	They're doing something Camilian: they're swapping missiles!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u138	Make it clear, Mr. Deputies. Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the stability programme presented by the Government, the Social Democratic Party shows a fundamental agreement and a fundamental divergence. Concordance with the desire to reduce the value of the deficit; divergence with the size of the planned tax burden. Let's look at the value of the deficit. First, in Portugal, there should no longer be discussion about the need to reduce the deficit and have balanced public accounts. More than an external commitment, this is a duty with the present and future generations of Portuguese. It is therefore good to maintain a path to reduce and eliminate the state deficit. We must always remember that more deficit means more debt, i.e. aggravating the burden for the next generations. Therefore, we cannot abandon the previous government's course, and the current government does well to pursue that path. It is true that we are far from the value of 11 % deficit, which was registered in 2010 and which has been reduced to 3 % in four years, and it is also true that the value is lower today. But, in fact, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a deficit, so any idea of the existence of a strike is pure fiction. Second, Portugal registered in 2017, if we withdraw the capital entry values in the General Deposit Box, a deficit value of around 0, 9 % of GDP. If we did not maintain a reduction path, that would give a bad sign about our country, it would affect Portugal's credibility and would have a direct effect on the costs of our financing. If we have come to make significant savings in the volume of interest paid by the debt capital, it would be almost criminal to question this, investing in 2018 the direction of reducing and eliminating the public deficit. Thirdly, it is particularly at a favourable stage of economic growth, with a favourable external environment, which must make the greatest effort to achieve this reduction. In fact, if we do not use this phase to reduce and cancel the public deficit, then we will never hardly do it. Of course we regret how modest the consolidation process is in 2018 and 2019, which mainly relies on reducing the amount of interest...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u140	For PSD it's still too little!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u141	...and the statistical effect of economic growth. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has a number of disagreements with what the Government is presenting in this Stability Programme —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u142	So far it doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u143	... the absence of measures to reform the economy, to encourage savings, to increase productivity, to promote birth, to pursue a public investment policy that conditions and degrades the quality of services, leading them to a situation of poverty and failure of the State itself, whether in civil protection, health, education, just to give some examples. But the deeper divergence with the Government's proposal is in the continuation of a policy that keeps the tax burden in record values. in reality, the government follows a very firm strategy of tax increases, of tax increases. Without complexes, we say that we in the government would be making a gradual drop in the tax burden. And this is consistent with our work in the government, because past the peak of the crisis, that is what we did at the IRC level and today we would also be doing so at the taxation level of families. The government's strategy of maintaining the tax burden is wrong for two reasons: firstly, because a reduction in the deficit based essentially on the increase in taxes is not a sustainable consolidation; secondly, because a tax burden as high as Portugal registers affects the competitiveness of the economy, preventing it from attracting investment and boosting more growth. Mr Reaffirmo, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that a tax burden reduction strategy, first in businesses and then in families, is the correct one to promote the economic growth and social development that we all aspire to. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is neither political rhetoric nor opposition speech. Let's go to the facts, because reality is what it is: the country is anesthetized with the growth of 2, 7 % of our economy in 2017. It is a good value, in absolute terms — no one denies it — but it must also be noted that, in relative terms, of the 27 Member States of the European Union 19 have grown more than Portugal. This is the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u144	They will always support the government in the votes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u145	But in 2018 the situation is similar — the European Commission expects 21 countries in the Union to grow more than Portugal. And if we go for the period under review by 2023, the IMF expects only Italy to grow less than Portugal in the euro area. Moreover, the Government itself recognises that it is exhausted and that it is unable to maintain a policy of convergence with the European Union, so it assumes that we will grow less than in 2017, even though it cannot explain the objectives to which it is proposed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strategic orientation of the Social Democratic Party is therefore clear to Portugal — reforming essential areas to promote the productivity of our economy, reducing the tax burden to boost more economic growth, a path of convergence with Europe, without jeopardizing the policy of consolidation of public accounts. thus, we will have more growth and better state. That is why we have no hesitation in saying what we agree with and what we differ from the government, because the Portuguese know that the ambition, the desire to do more and better, of wanting Portugal in the front platoon, rhymes with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u146	But look, it's a poor rhyme!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u147	That is our story and I am sure that will be our future, for the sake of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u148	Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS, for which she has the floor, wrote to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We welcome the debate of the Stability Programme and the PNR (National Reform Programme) here in the Assembly. It is an opportunity for Parliament to speak freely about Portugal's participation in the European project, in this case, in the coordination of the European Union's economic and budgetary policies. It wins democracy! This is a real exercise of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u151	Contrary to what the PSD says, the PNR is no longer the same, but the continuity of policies is the determination in political ambition. A good part of the way, designed at the 2016 PNR, was successfully done, but more is needed to meet the country's ambitions. This 2018 PNR ensures the continuity of innovative policies. The PSD initiative proposes, and I quote, « reduction of deficit and debt(... ), but adopting another path of fiscal consolidation, healthier and sustainable ». That's what we're doing, that's where this stability programme is going.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u153	In fact, the 'wise' were right and Mr Emilio Guerreiro has already mentioned this report, which is not mine. After all, the ‘wise’ programme reflects reality and has proved to be efficient in designing and implementing stability programmes, but says the PSD, and I quote, ‘not based on the current strategy’. And it characterizes the government's strategy: increased tax burden, reduced investment and increased expenditure. Now, the government's strategy is exactly the opposite, as the numbers show. Mr President, we can only conclude that you are finally able to follow this Stability Programme and the PNR. Let us see: if you are advocating a strategy that is not based on the three elements I mentioned earlier, and the words are yours, then you are defending a strategy based on what objectives? Do you agree on the return to the past and policies of austerity, destructive of people's rights, the national health system, school, innovation policy and the scientific system, housing policies and the income law, whose results we are seeing every day? Oh, my God! That's what we reject. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u154	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the matter. Madam Member, I was just saying that you did not contradict what I said on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, the huge increase in taxes and tax increases that this government put into practice in a camouflaged way. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs Pedro Nuno Santos.]] in the 2016 budget, in the IRC, ( corporate income tax ) the measures that had been agreed with the Social Democratic Party were reversed ; the IMI (municipal property tax) family was amended; the IMI for trade, industry and services was increased; the seal tax was aggravated; the ISV (vehicle tax) was increased; the incentive for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles was reduced. Also in 2016, the additional to the ISP (oil and energy products tax) was created and the IMI of the sun and the views were put into practice. In 2017, a new additional IMI was created ; a tax on soft drinks was created ; there was an increase in local accommodation taxation ; there was an increase in gas oil ISP ; there was a further reduction in the incentive for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles ; there was a further increase in ISV. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u156	What about the answer to my question? Oh, my God! Is that the answer to my question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u157	In 2018, in view of all these increases that have occurred, the simplified regime for self-employed workers, who pay more IRS, ended a few steps at the level of education valleys, the IRC, at a state level, was increased. And all this with the support of the left benches. There was a rise in taxes and, on the other hand, a decline in public services that everyone recognises, including the left benches. Only the socialists embodyed and in posters do not recognize that today the state is worse than it was and that the Portuguese pay much more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u158	Is that the answer to my request for clarification? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u159	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Government makes a wrong choice by submitting itself to the European Union with the Stability Programme and the national reform plan and accepting as its criteria imposed by the European Union and the euro against national interests. This is not the first time that this happens, it is not exclusive of this government and, as in the past, it is still a wrong option, which the CFP rejects, denounces and fights. This is an option of national abdication before the European Union, which has the convergence between PS, PSD and CDS but which leaves the people and the country in the background, with criteria and goals such as deficit and debt. It is an option that does not defend the country, on the contrary, leaves it more exposed and vulnerable to external elements that do not control; an option that, in the past, in particular with the policy of the CFPs (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes) and the «aggression pact», has brought us destruction of rights and living conditions; an option that in recent years has limited the replacement and conquest of rights, preventing the response to the problems of workers and the people from going further. These taxes limit the response to the country's problems and are a brake on the progress that needs to be achieved. The way cannot be for submission to the various instruments of control of the European Union and its criteria, must be for the affirmation of national sovereignty. The priority cannot be to meet the goals of the deficit or debt, it must be to respond to the problems of workers, the people and the country. This must be the goal to which political options should be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u162	What are the Government's targets for hiring missing staff in public services? Will we arrive at the end of the legislature with schools, hospitals, health centres, social security services, courts and police services working in full because they have all the workers they need and without precarious links? What are the goals of the Government for the recovery and renewal of equipment and infrastructure in public services, education, health and transport? What goals does the government have for supporting culture? What goals does the Government have to propose to reduce the country's external dependence, to reduce the production, food, energy, scientific and technological or demographic deficits? What goals does the Government propose to support the productive sectors, farmers, fishermen, industry, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? The Government's lack of response to these issues, while at the same time accumulating the goals that meet the European Union's demands, confirms that this option is contrary to the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u163	And it's from there? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Stability Programme and the national reform plan do not decide on budgetary options, these are sovereign decisions that fall within the responsibility of national sovereignty bodies, but neither can the government's options be ignored or devalued.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u165	It's good not to forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u166	As the CFP has drawn attention, the last three State budgets have been marked by positive measures but also by limitations and shortcomings resulting, among other things, from the acceptance of the deficit targets by the government and the PS, an option in which it is supported by PSD and CDS, as it has also just been seen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u168	In the name of the targets of deficit and the lack of budgetary resources, the Government refused to increase pensions and effective measures to support victims of fires and forest defence; delayed wage recovery in career progressions; refused wage increases limited the advance of the free school textbooks; refused investments in the Lisbon metro, Transtejo or Soflusa ; ceased to fulfil the commitment regarding long-term contributions careers and prevented the increase in the budget for culture. It now announces the intention to go beyond the goals it had set, making the option to reduce even more, and more rapidly, the budget deficit and the payment of debt interest. One thing is the rigor of the public accounts, another, quite different, is to absolutize the criterion of reducing the deficit. Portugal was an economic power without any social problems and the option could be understandable. Faced with a country marked by serious structural problems and with so many needs to be resolved, it is not understood or accepted that this is the option. Each tenth of the deficit is EUR 200 million and the option to be made is to use each of these tenths to advance in the remedies for rights and income, in the solution of the country's structural problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u170	Perhaps the PS and the government would prefer that the discussion be limited to the budgetary options made by the existence of budgetary strikes or by the four-tenths that separate the different forecasts from the deficit. We understand that it would be more comfortable for the government, but on the side of the CFP, we refuse to do so. We do not accept the European Union's taxes as a criterion of national policy options. We do not accept that responses to national problems can only be a priority when there are budgetary strikes. We do not accept that the response to national problems is secondary to different forecasts of deficits resulting from the government's acceptance of targets. And we do not think that a deficit of 1, 1 % can be pointed out as an objective to achieve, as if this meant that the budget we identified as limited had ceased to be. If the PS executes a budget of 1, 1 % deficit will continue to lack the tenths of the response to fire problems, investment in health, support for the arts, education, social security and transport. The tenths that correspond to the proposals submitted by the CFP, rejected on behalf of the deficit, will be missing and it is proven that they should have been considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u171	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u172	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we do not want to discuss only four tenths of the deficit. We want to discuss the options behind all the tenths that are necessary to give priority to the lives of workers, the people and the country, without the sharing of goals and other taxes. This is the meaning of the draft resolution that we have brought to the debate and this will be the meaning of the struggle that we will continue to wage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u173	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are concluding another debate on the reform and stability programmes, which are articulated in the definition of the strategy for the next four years. We do so with at least three certainties about the last two and a half years: the impoverished country, which we received in 2015, is a country that is being recovered and prestigious. The Portuguese, who lived in discouragement, are now hopeful and committed, and the country, and the Portuguese that we are serving, have won, have won with the government that the opposition vaccinated that would cause them to lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The results we have achieved show that it was worth it. It is still worth working as we have worked and working with whom we have worked. This is what we will continue to do throughout the budget implementation this year and that is what we intend to continue to do in the State Budget for 2019, in negotiation and collaboration with our parliamentary partners. The Stability Programme and the reform plan that we have been discussing, with the corrections resulting from the results achieved and with the necessary updates, consolidate the course we have taken and reaffirm it in the form and pace to continue it. A course successfully, but still incomplete. Incomplete because there are many shortcomings and constraints: for example, in the performance of public administrations and systems, in the realization of labour rights, in the levels of productivity and qualifications of the active population, in the technological and digital skills, in the excessive public and private indebtedness, under the still fragile condition of the financial business sector, which we have been improving, or in the persistence of high levels of poverty and inequality in the distribution of income. But the successes are widely recognized and continued. The economy grew, despite the lack of opposition; employment increased, contrary to what was said to the right; inequalities decreased, even with the disinterest of the CDS and the PSD; the facilities found by the country, by its businesses and in the credit abroad, became greater. All this helped, and helped, our public finances, but this also happened, in large part, because of the credibility acquired by improving public accounts, an improvement that the opposition discredited and that the other parties devalued and still show difficulty in understanding its merit. The Portuguese economy has never grown so much since 2000, and since then it has never been able to overcome Europe's average. For a year and a half, Portuguese exports have grown consecutively above the European Union and the euro area, demonstrating another breath and winning a consecutive market share. Investment grows twice and a half more than in Europe. Private investment has reached the highest growth in the last 17 years. The European Commission sets a good example of Portugal's measures to improve access to finance by companies. Consumers and economic agents have shown the greatest confidence in recent decades. They show confidence in the social and economic conditions of their country and, precisely for that reason, they show confidence in the government that has created them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a job to grow sustainably above 3 % since the beginning of last year, and at double the pace of Europe. We have jobs created that generate more security and less precariousness. New contracts without end account for more than 80 % of the job created. We have the lowest number of unemployed young people in the last 20 years. We have fewer than 166 800 long-term unemployed, ending a calvary for so many and so many thousands of families. That has been the case because we have been well governed, because we have been able to dialogue with all of us and in particular to preserve our understanding with the parties that have approved the investment and budgetary policy of this government. But we have achieved much more: we have the lowest level of inequality since, from 2003 onwards, we have measured inequality in Portugal. We innovate, eliminate disparities and resolve social differences as in human rights. The available income of families continues to grow We support our elderly and our children more. The percentage of families with overdue credit is at the lowest level of the last eight years. The tax effort has decreased and there is only more revenue and contributions for good reasons, that is, because there is more economy and more employment that generates them. And this has only happened, I repeat, with this Government of the Socialist Party, and, of course, with the support of BE, the CFP and the Greens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These parties' reservations on government policies for reducing deficit and debt management have not been nor have they been new in terms of European rules and commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u175	Now you're talking good, yes sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u176	We know and live with these differences, but we think that our care is the safest course of the good path we are doing. Already in 2016, when we discussed the Stability Program, they alluded to these constraints telling us to tie our feet and hands. In 2017, they also said so. One of them, at least, now considers that these earlier limits are already virtuous and should not be changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u177	No, no! You didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u178	What is true is that the Stability Programme, being cautious and predictable in public finances, ensures once again a trajectory of emphasis on social guarantees and reinforces the best economic and financial performance for decades, choosing social and economically productive expenditure and investment in essential public sectors and services. And this is a benefit for the lives of the Portuguese, a benefit that we want to deepen and not compromise, that it is important to continue without interrupting! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have already said here, but it is important to say again, that we learn from the budgetary imbalances of the past and I fear it proved. The path we are making, which restores rights, which does justice, which improves social protection, which creates employment and restores hopes, is a path of ambition and prudence, which we do not admit to doing, acting as if the past had not shown us risks, warnings, consequences and lessons. If, after the negative effects of the international crisis, at the end of the last decade, which we could not or could not avoid, we would return to these neglects, we would certainly compromise this path of recovery and gains which the Portuguese are benefiting from and which are due to an intelligent government that the left can claim today and which should not be distanced from. The PS is committed to the convergence of the Portuguese left, on an agenda that integrates historical and current aspirations to combat inequalities, modernization and sustainability, internal and European cohesion and which have resulted in cross-cutting benefits in Portuguese society. It is therefore important to preserve this political heritage and continue to give content to this ambition, which cannot be destroyed by precipitation and imposition, in place of graduality and precaution. We will therefore certainly be united in the realization of a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme confirm the good news we have received: the macroeconomic scenario is reviewed at a high level in all its components; the economy will grow this year at the level of the euro area, without diverging for the second consecutive year, and in subsequent years it will continue to prosper and grow moderately. Because there will be more economy, more employment and more savings in debt service, we will have, contrary to what some say, more investment in health, qualification and innovation, justice, transport, infrastructure. Public investment, on the horizon 2018 - 2022, will maintain growth dynamics. With the support of the Structural Funds, structural investments across the country will be leveraged with an estimated value of more than EUR 7 billion. With the expected deficit values, Portugal presents itself in Europe with a budgetary balance that places it in the middle of the table, in a framework where most Member States already have budgetary surpluses. It is also important, because it is imperative to reduce the burden of interest on public expenditure, to allocate more resources to investment and improve the quality of public services provision and to prevent major consequences in any negative external frameworks. It is in this balance that we must continue, gaining in all dimensions and not compromising any of the objectives. That is the balance of which the PS should not waive, and therefore it cannot be seen in most of the conclusions of any of the draft resolutions submitted on the documents under consideration today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u179	That's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u180	I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that today the PS can say again, with even greater emphasis than a year ago: we are preparing a safer future; Portugal prestigious itself abroad and the Portuguese are increasingly counting on Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u181	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I leave a first removal comment addressed to the Left Block and the CFP, since they have already given up to austerity policies, they have taken this time not to curse the European Union and the euro, not to stop the will, being able to devilize NATO, not to vehemently criticize neoliberal policies that produce austerity. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] No, that's not why they used the word. It was, yes, to discuss tenths of the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u183	I didn't need that to agree with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u184	The neoliberalism that so much evokes, making him the ultimate accusation...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u185	Honestly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u186	... to policies that are not yours, in the Manician tradition of those who are not for me are against me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u187	Look who talks about Maniqueist tradition!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u188	...is reduced what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? A simple discussion about a mere tenths of deficit! That's what the ladies are reduced to. Members of the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u189	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u190	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u191	Stirring frogs and moving forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u192	We're vegetarians!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u193	Very little, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Very little! [[PSD applause.]] I would like to make a second comment on, while stressing the importance of reducing the deficit and debt, saying that, to this end, there is an urgent need for another way that is not proposed by the Government and the Socialist Party. The way of government is that of passivity, it is that of ease, it is the way of « lets go that this will go well». If not, see: the growth of 2, 3 %, marked by the government, is not due to reforms carried out by it but rather to the drag power of the world economy which, fortunately, is growing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u194	It was the PEC with your vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u195	... although they are already beginning to feel signs that things can get worse, especially by the price of the oil barrel. As for IRC, the key to economics and growth, the government will always do and will do the opposite of what it should do. What did you do? IRC increased by 2 %! As a consequence: you cannot ask companies for more investment! This with an aggravating: the rise of IRC is higher for companies that invest the most, the more they grow and the more jobs they create.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u196	Always defending the great capital!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u197	And this has a meaning, which is to tell companies: don't grow up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u198	They're the coitards of the stock exchange, they're not the shares of the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u199	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way has to be another one, because that is the only way we will leave the platoon of the least-growing countries in the European Union, so that we can become part of the group of the most-growing countries in the European Union. This is the path of proactiveness, real structural reforms, in order to create measures to stimulate investment, exports, productivity, the creation of more skilled and better paid employment, increasing value added and dynamicing innovation. This is the right way. And speaking of ambition, if we do not do so and adopt the path proposed by the Government, five years from now, Portugal will be more late than today in relation to the Community average. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the Stability Programme, this is the instability programme. There are several reasons for this...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u200	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u201	I would conclude, Mr President, by saying that there are several reasons for this, that I am quoting only one, for lack of time, which is moral instability, because the Government has not honored the said word. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. Before closing our work, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.os 837 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Opens an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 838 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable ( The Greens ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 839 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prevents seizures of funds in regulatory entities ( Second amendment to the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 840 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the statutes of the House of Douro ( PCP ), 841 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes ( PS ), 842 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption from the costs of workers in actions for recognition of the right or legally protected interest in occupational accidents and diseases ( Tenth amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Fifth Amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November ) ( BE) ( 843 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Housing Basic Law ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 844 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical assessment committee for the determination of the facts and analysis of the procedures related to the alleged illegal adoption process in the IURD ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions 1519 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Acting for a Demarcated Douro Region with future ( PSD ), 1520 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, an intervention in the Formosa River in the area of Cacela Velha and the Factory with a view to preserving the environmental and cultural heritage and the economic activities that develop there ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1521 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 63 / 2013 for a study of an alternative to the « stadium policy » by defending the best interests of Aveiro and ending with a serious injustice towards the Aveirans ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1522 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Barcelinhos Secondary School ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1523 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works in public schools in the district of Lisbon ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1524 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve psychosocial risks and psychological health problems at work ( CDS-PP ), 1525 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of buildings adjacent to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ), 1526 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requalification of the Basic School Professor Delfim Santos in Lisbon ( BE ), 1527 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the High School of the Rest ( BE ), 1528 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the planned investments for the requalification, enhancement and development of the potential of Portimão and Faro ports and associated activities ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1529 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse from Ponta de São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( BE ), 1530 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Second School Father Benjamim Salgado, in Joane ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1531 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic School of São Romão, Guimarães ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1532 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1533 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, Braga ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1534 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelos Secondary School ( BE ), 1535 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases ( The Greens ), 1536 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Castro Daire Secondary School ( PS ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1537 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to adopt requalification measures at the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycles of Alto do Lumiar ( PS ), 1538 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( PS ), 1539 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the High School of Rest ( PS ), 1540 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the transfer of deactivated buildings annexed to the Farol of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ) and 1541 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases and to promote health and safety at work ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-24.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedro Alves, for this effort. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will have the Solemn Commemorative Session of 44. the anniversary of 25 April. on Thursday, 26 April, beginning at 3 p.m., the plenary meeting will take place, on the following agenda: in point one, we will appreciate draft resolution No 1434 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Consecrates 21 March as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination ( PS ) ; in point two, the draft law no. 707 / XIII ( 3 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association ( BE) together with draft resolution No 1519 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Acting for a Demarcated Douro Region with future ( PSD ) and with generally the projects of lein.o 840 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the statutes of the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 841 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes ( PS ) ; The joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1327/ XIII ( 3 ) will be followed in point three. ( a ) — Transfer of facilities to the Farol of Ponta de São Jorge to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( The Greens), 1366 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer to the estate of the Autonomous Region of Madeira of the buildings annexed to the Lighthouse of São Jorge ( PSD ), 1353 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of the buildings annexed to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CFP ), 1525 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of buildings adjacent to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ), 1529 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse from Ponta de São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( BE ), 1516 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the infrastructure attached to the Lighthouse of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PAN ) and 1540 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the transfer of deactivated buildings annexed to the Farol of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ) ; in point four, the draft resolutions Nos 642 / XIII ( 2 ) will be examined together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, Agualva-Sintra ( CDS-PP ), 1331 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the High School of Rest ( CDS-PP ), 1350 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2017 for the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar ( CDS-PP ), 1387 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the High School of the Rest of Lisbon ( The Greens), 1500 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( The Greens ), 1527 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the High School of the Rest ( BE ), 1537 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to adopt requalification measures at the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycles of Alto do Lumiar ( PS ), 1538 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( PS ) and 1539 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the High School of Rest ( PS ) ; from point five we will generally have the discussion of the projects of lein.os 716 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Promotes the participation of workers in safety and health at work ( First Amendment to Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 establishing the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work ) ( PCP ), 509 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Add the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with rules for the repair of accidents at work, making the tenth amendment of the Labour Code and the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September ( PCP ), 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August ( PCP ) and 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the scheme for the repair of occupational accidents and diseases by the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September ( PCP ), together with draft resolutions 826 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national programme for the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases ( CFP ), 1485 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the right of workers in public service to fair reparation in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease and to consider the appropriate mechanisms to ensure effective and effective judicial protection ( PCP ) and 1138 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the legislative framework applicable to harassment at work in relation to occupational accidents and diseases ( BE ), with as a general rule draft law No 842/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption from costs of workers in actions for recognition of the right or legally protected interest in occupational accidents and diseases ( Tenth amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Fifth Amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November) ( BE) and draft resolutions 1541 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases and to promote health and safety at work ( BE ), 1524 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve psychosocial risks and psychological health problems at work ( CDS-PP ) and 1535 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases (The Greens); in point six, the motion for a resolution No 68 / XIII ( 3 ) is scheduled without allocation of time for discussion. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of India to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters ( signed in Lisbon on 11 September 1998 ), signed in Lisbon on 24 June 2017. Finally, in point seven, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and see you tomorrow at 10 a.m. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 29 minutes.]]
