ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 1048 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Basic law of the human right to adequate food, which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the agenda which has only one point and which is contained in the Request to the Government No 23 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Public infrastructure. To open the debate, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country today lives in a deep and widespread state of strike—from justice to health, from fire extinguishers to firefighters, from transport education to security forces to prison guards. All these strikes are the sign of the collapse of the state as a service provider, as an shareholder and as an employer. This government no longer serves the Portuguese, which is not surprising. This government was not the first choice of polls, it is a choice of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Party. Now, the problem is no longer legitimate, it is above all capacity. Public infrastructures, day after day, are collapsing, an announced collapse, because in this area governance requires competence, rigor, consultation and difficult choices. Everything this government has not shown.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u6	Most of its officials cannot complain of ignorance because they are the same as those at the root of the problem : the hidden debt of the PS, which was recovered by the PSD / CDS government. at the time, the PS, as a major opposition party, even contributed to the elaboration of PETI 3 +— Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020. The PS created the problem, but he knew and agreed with the solutions. I know that they are prepared to attribute guilt to the former government ignoring the real leaders, the ministers of the government of José Socrates, who led the country to the greatest growth of the public debt there is memory: 40, 6 %, between 2005 and 2011. Who, then, were the Ministers and Secretaries of State responsible for this? These ministers and State Secretaries have names: António Costa, Eduardo Cabrito, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, João Gomes Cravinho, Ana Paula Vitorino, Pedro Marques, Manuel Heitor, Augusto Santos Silva, Vieira da Silva, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u8	These can't say they didn't know, because they know. The Memorandum of Troika, which was signed by these gentlemen, imposes: the reduction of public service provided by State enterprises, as set out in point 3.23 of the Memorandum; the privatization of TTCs — yes, they heard well — were the gentlemen, who are now in the Government, who have signed this determination — such as the privatization of the REN, EDP, Galp, Safe Box, TAP and CP Cargo — for whom they have short memory, is set out in point 3.31 of the Memorandum;... [[PS protests.]] ... the increase in VAT (tax on value added) of electricity and the liberalisation of postal services; the rationalisation of the transport network. That is, on May 17, 2011, when these rulers signed the Memorandum, they knew exactly that the governance that was made from there would be the target of a strong conditionalism of economic policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u10	Still, it is interesting to make a comparative analysis. in fact, in this highly conditioned period, a public investment as a percentage of GDP was achieved in 2012 and 2013 of 2, 3 % ; the current government achieved a public investment as a percentage of GDP in 2016 and 2017 of 1, 6 % — repeat, 1, 6 % — and 1, 9 % respectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u12	The tax burden, as a percentage of GDP, is what VV. Ex.s are not tired of calling « the biggest tax burden there is memory », was in 2012 and 2013 31, 8 % and 34 % respectively, 1 % respectively ; with the current government in 2016 and 2017, the tax burden was 34, 3 % and 34, 7 % respectively an absolute record of management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u14	I mean, never so many paid so much to receive so little. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is therefore important to know how the greatest tax burden of ever providing Portuguese with the worst public services of all time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u16	Even the use of Community money, of funds that are so important for the functioning of the economy, of our businesses, for the qualification of workers, are below what they should be. Comparing what is comparable, we see that, four years after the start of the Community framework, the implementation of the funds is 26, 6 % less 8 percentage points than in the same period as in the previous table. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Strikes are only the visible face of failed governance, of unfulfilled promises, of a country falling apart. The management failed with itself and with the Portuguese. The PCP, the Bloc and the Greens Ecological Party can no longer provide guarantees of more rights and better service to the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts are facts! What did we hear during 2018? In the first half of 2018, 7000 users registered in the claim book, and this after an increase of 38, 9 % in 2017 ; the risk of accidents on the train lines increased by 85 %, says the regulator; the ports of the continent had a break of 3, 8 % on the busy load; a freight train disembarked on the North Line ; a failure on the Alfa Pendular, which only by miracle did not cause a major accident; two derailments on the Beira Alta Line and on the Beira Baixa Line ; the interrupted movement on the Douro Line due to unloading; the river link between the Barreiro and Lisbon with delays or suppressions, as still yesterday and today it was seen; the movement of trains resumed after the fall of the Cascais Line ; and I am going to exempt myself from the circulating material of the Casca Line?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u18	The proof of the failure of the governance of management is reality. This is the reality of the Portuguese, from day to day of the Portuguese. in terms of infrastructure, we have the most hundred Ministry of all, that of the Centeno illusionist, of the ambush captured in the strategy of promise. in this chapter we have proof that this government and the PS are true « story counters ». I'm talking to you now about the highway. After the launch of the Business Area Valuation Program on 7 February 2017, it will be two years ago, many of the promised links have no development on the ground. Another example is that of IC6 ( supplementary itinerary ). Mr. Minister announced in May this year, and I quote: « We are committed to drawing up, in the short term, the draft implementation relating to the continuation of IC6 to Follhadosa ». It is the same promise made in March 2017 from an investment of 38 million to more than 19 km in the same IC6. There is no development on the ground!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u19	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u20	On the national road No 125, the Minister, referring to the structural rehabilitation between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António, said on 25 July 2018 : « We will do structural rehabilitation work on the rest of the national road No 125 ». Is there any development on the ground? Don't! It's a government and a PS full of mouth, but empty hands for the citizen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Now, when nothing or almost nothing is done, he speaks in understandings — we look forward to the first work of the Higher Council of Public Works — but at the same time they are lifting the 2020 Railway programme, which should be ready, as it is obvious, in 2020. These are the same investments already identified in PETI 3 +. Four years later, what the Government has to present is 5 % effective implementation, and it is not the CDS that says so, are the Infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u21	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u22	This is truly a'story count': it speaks a lot, but it does little. If you want consensus, the CDS offers some. Examples: West Line. With regard to the announcement in Ferrovia 2020, on the link Meleças to Caldas, the launch of the competition planned for the work in January 2017, after all, was not well because only today, 12 December, is the end of the public consultation period for the project. Douro line. Regarding the announcement at the 2020 Railway, on the link Falls to the Canavevezes Framework, the completion of the work planned for — pay attention! — December 2016, after all it wasn't like that! It was just the ad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u23	It's because it's Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u24	On 26 November, there is an announcement of the interruption of the line for three months following due to works. It is the most charged RIV (Integral Renovation of the Way) of this government! With regard to the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), the company that was being organized, with social peace, where there was a plan for the renewal of rolling stock — more ambitious than presented — is it true — what happened? Everything was involved, the plan was delayed and the quantity of trains to be purchased was still reduced. The Government promises trains for 2022 or 2023. EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ), given the said delay and lack of solutions, was essential to address the maintenance needs of the rolling stock of the CP. What happened? The future has not been defined. First, it was to be divided, then, it was to have an international participation and now no one knows what will become of EMEF. It is true that an advance definition would have helped to solve many of the problems of circulating material. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, these are not just the failures, there are more and more serious ones. The State that fails in physical infrastructure is the same State that failed the Portuguese in Pedrogão, in Oliveira do Hospital, in Oliveira de Frades, in Tondela, in Monchique, in Tancos and recently in the incomprehensible collapse of the road in Borba, in which the State insists not to pay the compensation due to the family regardless of the necessary clearance of responsibilities. We are before a government that is, firstly, unable to understand the Portuguese; a record government in strikes and protests; a government that is not able to guarantee the safety of the populations because of the captives required by the President of the Eurogroup, Mário Centeno; a government that, rather than dialogue with those who, even with difficulties, continue to serve us, prefer to confront them and accuse them of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u26	from promises to reality there is a socialist distance. in propaganda, it is a sea of roses; in fact, a forest of deceit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u28	As Konrad Adenauer said, «They all live on the same sky, but not all see the same horizon». And the Portuguese horizon is getting worse and worse! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u29	Mr Pedro Marques, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This question reflects the state of the opposition. The opposition is silent in the face of the country's situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has no agenda in front of the country's situation and has now discovered a huge passion for trade unions and strikes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u31	No one's been talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u32	This opposition, which has no way of attacking the results of economic and social policy of this government, has discovered — this right-wing opposition, no doubt! — a great deal of passion for strikes and for trade unions. This opposition, which last Friday announced, as the one who was tearing his clothes, that the Minister was going to ask the government, that that of the reprogramming was only propaganda now, « put the rape in the bag » and here, in the opening of this debate, neither a word nor a question about the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. "They put the rape in the bag" as in many other matters of this government. I will even begin with the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, as long as they have forgotten this violent interpellation last Friday. This reprogramming is already approved by Brussels and it is regrettable for us that last Friday only the opposition has resorted to the swindling argument of propaganda. When they have nothing to say, they cling to the topic of propaganda. When they have no content, there comes the propaganda talk. [[PSD protests.]] With the reprogramming we made, we were able to mobilise concrete funds for competitiveness and cohesion in Portugal: it was EUR 1000 million for the qualification of young people and adults;... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... EUR 750 million for territorial cohesion, for proximity services; EUR 550 million for urban mobility, for meter projects, the World mobility system and the recovery of the Cascais Line. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the projects which the parties on the right have promised, in particular in PETI 3 +, to which they have referred, but for which they have not left any source of funding in the current Community framework. These projects are now a concrete reality with the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this reprogramming, we have also been able to strengthen support for businesses and job creation. More than EUR 5 billion of concrete investment with concrete results in people's lives will enable more than 20 000 jobs to be created in Portugal. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] One third of this investment, by government determination, is to be applied in low-density territories, which is more than 50 % than the weight of low-density employment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the concrete results of the reprogramming and these accusations of propaganda, then we will talk about concrete results: from Friday to today we have already made available to the companies, to the Portuguese authorities, EUR 1200 million of the EUR 7 billion of the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. These are concrete results and since Friday they are already available from Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This opposition, which continues to look to the side, to whisper to the side, to talk about propaganda when we present concrete results, left us a Portugal 2020 halt, in a late start situation, and also left us a funding deficit for critical areas for development, the area of infrastructure, which they wanted to talk about today. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] In this area too, reprogramming enables us to move forward, as I said, just like the work we did in the first two years of this legislature, by making the projects, by launching the competitions, today allows us to have more public investment and more investment in infrastructure, and can overcome the situation of lethargy that left us at the end of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u33	This is the worst public investment ever, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u34	We can leave the Portuguese a message of tranquility, because, according to the technical information available, according to the monitoring system validated by the LNEG (National Energy and Geology Laboratory) — which has more than a decade and which, if not needed, the previous government could have changed it — today we can say that this monitoring system of more than 7000 infrastructures allows us to claim that they have quality and that we can use them with full confidence. More than 7000 infrastructures are monitored. In each year approximately 1500 infrastructures are inspected in concrete, under their operating conditions, in their state of conservation and in any maintenance needs. The result of the work developed, this technical work is not news. Of course, what is news is if we make a partial conditioning of a route, but if we make the partial conditioning of the route it is because we want to guarantee security conditions to use it. Thanks to this technical work, this quiet work of the teams, which is done at the back of the technical teams of the infrastructure of Portugal, has already been possible to reduce the infrastructure needed for priority observation by a third. Until the end of 2019, we will reduce to half the current number of infrastructures that are the subject of priority attention, an effort that we are developing with more 21 works on the ground at the moment in the road and rail network. We will thus reduce to half these infrastructures in need of priority assessment, the result of increased investment on the road and rail, in the current year and next. Our investment continues and has very emblematic elements, realizing the importance of the country. When it was necessary to invest in infrastructure security, all the necessary resources did not cease to appear. This speech was not swindled from the captivatings which later had any adherence to reality. The Portuguese know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u35	Then they don't know! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u36	We have said here, we commit ourselves here, which will begin, by the end of the year, the most important structural work of the 25th April Bridge in many years! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I said earlier, will begin by the end of the year the great maintenance work of the 25th April Bridge and we will award at the beginning of the year the work of the IP3, this great work claimed for so many years, which will provide more security to the movement in that itinerary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without the populist alarm and the demagogy of this opposition, which navigates to the flavor of the news, which navigates to the flavor of the media, without alarming the Portuguese, our strategy, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is quite different: strengthening public investment to improve infrastructure and services. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you — in fact, I have already stated this earlier in the debate on the State budget, but I want to strengthen this idea — that in 2018 we have doubled the investment of the infrastructure of Portugal in relation to the previous year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u37	It was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u38	Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for those who spend time now, in this legislature, speaking of public investment, would like to record the following : we doubled public investment on the railway and on the road in 2018, and it will grow again significantly in 2019. This is the case with the serious public investment bet — and not with these unjustified alarms — ; it is with a programme such as the 2020 Railway, the largest investment programme in railway infrastructures in Portugal over the last few decades, in which two thirds of its 2000 million are destined for the safety of our infrastructures ; it is thus with more than EUR 100 million of conservation contracts on our road, which are not a promise, are being implemented long before the opposition remembers the safety of infrastructures. It is with these concrete results of government action that we can tell the Portuguese that the bet on public investment is serious. We did the housework and are now collecting the results, improving the quality of mobility in Portugal. Without unjustified alarms, this is how we will continue to address the needs of the country, improve the conditions of mobility and security of the populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u39	To request clarification from Mr Hélder Amaral, two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hélder Amaral, I do not want to say peremptoryly that you are the apostles of misfortune, but I do not think that I am wrong to say peremptoryly that you are the apostles of the prediction of misfortune! You, permanently, expect a disgrace. If it happens, it's okay; if it doesn't happen, you can see it soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u41	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u42	This has been your speech in this legislature! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Hélder Amaral, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group naturally sees with good eye a debate on the importance of public infrastructure. We do not run away from this debate, we want and are genuinely available for this debate, but we consider that a debate on public infrastructure based on fear, with the intention of installing insecurity, doubt and alarming the Portuguese is not acceptable, because it is too bad for a party that wants to be responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must say, in the interests of truth, that we have appreciated in this Parliament that the CDS has long opened the 'vote hunt' and every day what we have observed is that there is a growing populist vertigo, all because of the desire to take more votes and more electoral accounting. That's not serious, it's not something that should be associated with a responsible party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u43	We respect all the mechanisms of democracy, in some way, all those that allow us to guarantee 'election goods', let us say so, but we will continue to denounce the parties — in this case, in particular, the CDS — that create panic, that scares the Portuguese in an absolutely unsustainable way, as is the case with this debate and the intervention of the CDS in this House of the Republic. The fact is, Mr President, that there is no solid argument during your speech that supports the collapse, as you said, of public infrastructure. In fact, let me mention some concrete, factual data to prove that. Let us start with the question of railway, on which Mr So Much insisted, and on the conservation of railway: in one of the reports of the infrastructure of Portugal, making a « mercery accounts », between 2013 and 2015 the money associated with the conservation of railway by his Government was EUR 215 million ; between 2016 and 2018, the money associated with the railway by the Government of the Socialist Party was EUR 228 million, i.e. more 6 % than you did in the same period in three years. By continuing to talk about rail investment, I present another fact : between 2013 and 2015, the investment in rail, of your responsibility, was 276, 7 million euros, as shown in the report by the Infrastructures of Portugal ; between 2016 and 2018, of the responsibility of the PS Government, the investment was 319 million euros, i.e. more than 16 % of investment than you did. They must therefore justify this House where the relevant data on such infrastructure collapse is available, particularly on the railway. If we evaluate the infrastructure in its total and, above all, the conservation of public infrastructure in its total, in the same report it is possible to verify that between 2013 and 2015 you spent EUR 272 million and between 2016 and 2018 EUR 306 million, i.e. plus 12, 1 % of investment. In short, Mr President, there is no single argument supporting this debate as you presented it at the beginning of this session. But, Mr President, there are arguments that justify the de-investment that you have made in some infrastructures throughout your mandate. I would just like to remind you, for example, at CP level this graph that I show you, which is official, Mr. Deputy finds it anywhere, about the reduction of the effects that you have done in the infrastructures of Portugal : in 2011 there were 2978 and by 2015 there were only 2684. You have reduced 13 % of the assets in the COP. But the honourable Member spoke of EMEF, in which you did exactly the same thing: they reduced from 1236 in 2011 to 979 in 2015. They just got rid of the railroad! Therefore, Mr President, the request I leave to you is the following: find and explain to this House a solid argument demonstrating the catastrophe you have presented in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u44	Mr Joel Sá of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the CDS and Mr Hélder Amaral on the subject and on the opportunity we have to discuss this subject. by the tone of the Minister, the importance of this debate is more than demonstrated. Indeed, this government is an illusion to the Portuguese that everything is fine, but what is true is that the infrastructures are in total degradation. It is a government with a lot of propaganda, with a lot of ads and little work, as it has still been seen today: a lot of propaganda. A government which is the king of captivity, which adopts a State budget that knows it will not meet and thus again deceives the people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u46	It is a State that fails in its mission to ensure the protection and safety of people and goods, as we know, in some cases with real consequences and in others guess: the fires of June and October 2017, where 115 people died ; recently the road in Borba ; in Tanks, weapons and ammunition have disappeared ; hospitals are financially strangled, with lack of professionals, degraded facilities, lack of equipment and even macas, questioning the quality of health services provided ; schools are degraded, raining in classrooms, students have to take blankets to warm up, because the rooms are cold, and there is no money for day-to-day management, what happens in many schools, as Mr. Minister well knows and has recently heard. The railway is in chaos, with degradation of circulating material and of constant routes and delays, and if Mr Minister does not run a train, we walk and see it every week. Mr Minister, according to the infrastructure of Portugal, the degree of implementation is 5 % — 5 %! — and you were in the luxury of opening, in Barcelos, 10 km of a way that should be completed and is still to be concluded, not knowing when there will be trains circulating in that Line. Mr Hélder Amaral, what explanation does it provide for the government to have only 5 % execution?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u47	The explanation you're going to give is that we're bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u48	Road infrastructure is at risk and requiring urgent work and public transport, such as Metro, and those who guarantee the crossing of the Tagus have the problems we are still witnessing. As Prof. Luís Leitão says: "The basic duty of any State is to ensure the justice and security of citizens. (...) Now, a State that fails(...) may only deserve the name of failed State. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Hélder Amaral, after three years of this government, what justification is there for these delays in infrastructure? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u49	To reply, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Carlos Pereira and Mr. Joel Sá, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have asked me. I would like to tell Mr Carlos Pereira that he did not actually run away from the infrastructure debate, but the Minister has fled, and in what way!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u51	You didn't even get into the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u52	Mr. Member, I don't know if we are the prophets of misfortune, but using the same symbolism, I would say: by whom God commands to warn them! God commands us to warn of the failures in health infrastructures by the honourable Member who, three years ago, has a poster announcing Madeira's hospital, which, past four Budgets, continues to exist. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do you want more examples than this? By whom God commands you to be warned, sir! Mr President, it is sufficient to read carefully the press complaints of the news to understand what you have fulfilled what you have promised, in particular the railway 2020, a VV promise. In a recent interview, Mr. Minister said that as soon as they arrived at the government, they considered rail priorities as priority, and three months after taking possession, they presented the 2020 Railway Plan with a value of EUR 1000 million. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong? Was it bad faith? Were they wrong? They had already agreed and negotiated with the previous government the PETI3 +, where all these works were already identified!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u53	He says well: "they were identified"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u54	What's missing? Mr President, 'incompetence' is the right word! Four budgets later, it is not reasonable to have a 5 % implementation, and I am not saying that, I will repeat, is Portugal's own infrastructure. Mr. Joel Sá, we are not the prophets of misfortune, but I can assure you that the CDS will be the faithful depositary of the concerns of the Portuguese and will make an attentive, permanent and rigorous opposition to the action of the government, because that is why we are here. I have with me a document from the infrastructure of Portugal on the work of this government, with its timetable. Mr. Minister opened 10 km, corresponding to the section Nine-Viana, a network of 30 km, but according to this document, the launch of the competition for the work was scheduled for March 2016 — do you want the document to be distributed or you know it, Minister? — and the construction contract for January 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u55	You're talking about works, aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u56	As for the Viana-Valença section, the launch of the competition for the work was scheduled for January 2017 and the construction contract for the course of that year. I know that when it comes to infrastructure and work carried out within the framework of the 2020 Railway, the Minister will refer to the Covilhã-Guarda section, which is the only one to present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u57	Or one of those you've talked about now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u58	No, Mr. Minister! V. Exa made an experimental opening of this section, which is not even open for use by the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u60	It was the ambush! It was there, he took some pictures, he presented the images, but it was just to test.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u61	There are no trains to walk on that line!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u62	Mrs. Members, the CDS has no problem in discussing the collapse of the country, because it is too obvious, it is obvious every day and it is evident in what happened in the past. Therefore, we do not accept the criticism of alarmism. Mr. Carlos Pereira has been with me in all the hearings on the 25th of April. I don't want to be an alarmist and I didn't mention this in my speech, but it would make a lot of sense that we knew today what the date of the beginning of the works is. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We moved on to the 13 requests for clarification to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, starting with Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr. Minister came on an unprovoked basis to attack a CDS member. Mr Minister, on this subject, I want to tell you two things. First of all, you come to Parliament when you call it,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u65	... because that is your obligation. You are being monitored by Parliament, you are not the one that controls Parliament or the Members. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] More serious, Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u66	Monitoring is in both directions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u67	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, will you allow me to continue? I wanted you to hear me because I already realized that you don't read very well and you might, if you hear me, understand. Mr Minister, the Government's Appeal No 23 / XIII / 4 has been scheduled for today. a ( CDS-PP ) on public infrastructure, and I understand that Mr. Minister has used the custom tactics: when the conversation does not suit you, or are abroad or disagree. It's the custom! He has learned from Mr. Prime Minister, he is a good student, but he is certainly not a good minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u68	Minister, do you know what is scandalizing? Since the question of infrastructure and we have mentioned, at the opening of the debate, things as serious as the fact that transport claims do not stop increasing — are 7000 registered in the complaint book, an increase of 38 % compared to 2017 — what did the Minister do, the first time he spoke and had the opportunity to deny? You didn't do anything, zero! When we say that the risk of train-line accidents increased by 85% in five years, what did the Minister say, when he first explained to Parliament? Zero! More serious than that, Minister, and here among us, it is a shame that, being Mr. Minister of the Setúbal district, the day after hundreds of our fellow citizens of Montijo, Barreiro, Seixal, Almada have been detained, not to say kidnapped, on a boat,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u69	It was at Seixal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u70	... because of your failure and inability, you did not have the shame of speaking a word to these citizens during the first 10 minutes you spoke. It's a shame! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] There are people who wake up early to go to work and who spend much of their lives in transport, harming their family, and the gentlemen cut, suppress and then say nothing. It's a shame! Talk about it! Do you want to talk about funds, Minister? Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u71	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u72	The Minister is not confused — he is a good illusionist, I give him this credit — reprogramming with increase. Why are you reprogramming? Because it's wrong, but it sells as an increase. It just doesn't increase anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u73	He didn't execute!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u74	And it was wrong to know why? Because you didn't execute! You didn't execute anything! I'll give you a little number, Minister. Comparing what is comparable, in four years, the execution of V. Exa is 26, 6 %, minus 8 percentage points than in the previous government—see good! — the evil of everything and of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u75	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u76	I'm done with this, Mr. President. Mr Minister, as far as infrastructures are concerned, he answers the questions about ships in the Setúbal district and the collapse of the railway, because it is his obligation and the Portuguese so demand; as for funds, more than answer, do! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the requests for clarification, I would like to inform the House that there is a delegation from the Palestinian-Portugal Parliamentary Friendship Group of the Palestinian Legislative Council for which I welcome you. [[General applause, stand up.]] I should also like to inform you that the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure will first respond to a set of four requests for clarification, then to another set of four and finally to the remaining five. For the second request for clarification of this first set, Mr António Topa of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister, the PS Government has not seriously criticised what it has designated as "diabolization" of roads by the previous Government. We could therefore expect these large road investments to be made by this government. however, according to the available data for 2016 and 2017, there were neither road investments nor others. With regard to maintenance and conservation, this is what we can call 'disaster', and as for new roads, the government says it will create conditions for negotiating what it calls'small' investments with Brussels there for 2019. The IP announced that it will invest more than EUR 100 million in the implementation of national road network conservation work over the next three years, work to be carried out after the signature of the consignment contracts, one per district. According to the report and consolidated accounts of the IP for 2015, the former Government invested in the conservation of national roads a value of EUR 95 million. in the 2017 document, it is reported that, by 2016, IP investment in roads and rail increased by 24, 2 %, but in 2016, a breakdown of 65 % was recorded in that investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u79	More of the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u80	With this government, the added value of IP investments in 2016 and 2017 was 151, 6 million euro, less 22 % than the previous government investment in 2015,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u81	... 194, EUR 4 million, in a still difficult year, after the troika's exit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u82	He's the Minister of Children!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u83	The available data for 2017 indicate a low IP investment performance of only about 50 % of the expected value. The investments on the road and the charges with the conservation, repair and road safety, from 2016 onwards, have been very low, below the 2015 values, during the previous Government. Mr Minister, Mr Prime Minister repeats insistently that the previous Government has demonized investment on roads. Even in May 2017, in the Beers, Mr. Prime Minister once again made promises, revealing that in the future he would negotiate with Brussels financial appropriations for what he called « small » projects on the road. Mr Minister, last weekend, accompanied by Mr Prime Minister and after closing the 2020 reprogramming, said he was happy. What is the question: does this reprogramming include small projects on the road, according to the Prime Minister's statements, and the possibility of its renegotiation with Brussels? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u84	To request clarification, Mr. Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, either the CDS to make believe, throwing uncertainty, mistrust and even alarmism in public opinion, even irresponsiblely, that our public infrastructure is generally abandoned, degraded and at risk of security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u86	Or they're nonexistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u87	We understand and accept that the most diverse public infrastructure needs constant and permanent investment, on the one hand, in order to ensure all conditions of security for the people and, on the other, to be a factor of cohesion and competitiveness in the territory in which they are inserted. Of course it's intolerable when it's not, and even more intolerable when it costs human lives. However, we also understand and note that it has been this Government of the Socialist Party, to understand this need well, to implement a significant effort in the maintenance, requalification and expansion of the public infrastructure and equipment that Portugal needs. This political effort has also been accompanied by a financial effort not only supported by the Community funds but also by the State budget. I can only point out three examples of this. First example: EUR 134 million for investment in IP3 requalification, which is absolutely necessary on one of the most busy and degraded roads in the country, where work is already under way and where the launch of the first large company in Penacova is scheduled for the beginning of 2019, will begin the complete requalification of this route between Coimbra and Viseu. Second, the EUR 2000 million investment in rail retraining, equally important and infrastructure investment for the country, for the mobility of citizens and goods, and which is absolutely essential for the competitiveness of the country, with interventions to be carried out in more than half of the national rail network and with ongoing works already taking place on the lines of the Mininho, Douro, the North, Beira Alta, Beira Baixa and the East. Third example: the more than 12 million euros of investment in the maintenance of the 25th April bridge, which is also essential for the safety of the many millions of citizens who pass there every year and whose process for the execution of the work is already under way and which will even start soon. Others, many other examples could give, but now they don't fit. I would therefore like to address two very clear and objective questions to you. First of all, I ask you whether you maintain the public investment strategy in these areas and whether the commitments made and announced by the Government, both at the level of investments, but also at the level of the implementation schedules presented, have undergone some changes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u88	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u89	I will now finish, Mr President. Secondly, on a purely indicative basis, and taking as an example the infrastructures I referred to — the IP3, the railway and the Bridge 25 April — I ask you what studies and projects Mr. Minister inherited from the previous Government and what amounts of investments made by the last Government of the PSD and the CDS in the maintenance, requalification and expansion of these infrastructures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u90	The Bureau will, of course, authorize each parliamentary group to manage the time available, but it is also up to the Bureau to signal the normal times for the formulation of requests for clarification. The next request for clarification lies with Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u91	Mr President, Minister, the first question I would like to ask you has to do with the start of your speech on the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. The Minister said that there is a set of investments in public passenger transport that will be resumed with this reprogramming, and that is a positive factor that we have not failed to point out, until it is also the recognition that the Strategic Programme for Transport and Infrastructure of the previous Government, PETI 3 +, was seriously lacking in investment in public passenger transport, particularly with regard to rail transport. That is why, Minister, we welcome the reprogramming in this area. However, the examples that Mr Minister gives are not exactly very happy examples for this justification of reprogramming. What is said about investment in urban metropolitans in Lisbon and Porto is supported by the construction of a famous circular line in Lisbon, whose environmental impact declaration has at least 50 alerts — repeat, 50! — on conditions for a favourable environmental impact declaration. Some of these conditions are quite serious for the operation of the city. One of them is the fact that the construction of the subway in its final section is made in an open fence system of about 500 m, which will, of course, bring a huge disorder to all the lisboets and to the operation of the city. Mr. Minister, the biggest problem in this investment is that the government has failed to evaluate alternative cost of metro extension lines, in particular the assessment of the extension of the yellow line to Alcântara. The second aspect I wanted to address has to do with public investment in rail versus public investment in the highway. I do not know whether Mr. Minister knows, but the statistics from the 2017 INE show that public investment in rail is about ten times less than the one that is made annually on public road investment. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you whether, even with the investment provided for in the 2020 Railway, which is a fairly limited programme in relation to the existing rail transport needs in the country, we still have to completely reverse this logic of favouring public road investment in favour of public rail investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u92	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u93	The third question, Minister, has to do with the announcement made by a complementary group of companies between EMEF, CP ( Portugal Trains ) and Medway. Mr Minister, my question is this: is this complementary business grouping the way to future privatisation of EMEF? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u94	You now have the floor to answer these first four requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Jesus Marques. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u95	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, we have discussed here issues that you say are not part of the intentions for this explanation, but I remember - I am well aware that last Friday, a deadline was almost set when they said 'the Minister must answer and make himself available until Wednesday or we will be here on Wednesday to ask for the reprogramming'. The first intervention came and, as I said, "they put the rape in the bag" and they had nothing to ask about reprogramming. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That was exactly my reference. This is my political assessment of last Friday's intervention. Then there were matters I spoke about and in which, clearly, Mr Hélder Amaral was distracted. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Mr Hélder Amaral, to reassure you and all Portuguese, what I have referred to throughout this year as our purpose was that we would do everything — although, of course, we cannot control public procurement proceedings, because there are complaints, etc... I said here, in my first speech, except twice the mistake, that the work of the 25th of April will begin by the end of this year, Mr Deputy. Therefore, as you may not have heard this part, I leave this news to you and to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u96	What year?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u97	This year, Mr. Deputy! Obviously, you are not paying attention to my speech or I am speaking in another language. Speaking also of this topic of cacophony and this problem which I certainly have with Portuguese, I was thinking here that if today, in a gallery, I had been a delegation from Parliament from any other country in the European Union which also benefits from cohesion policy, I should think that this debate on the implementation of Portugal 2020 is surreal. Members of the CDS and the leader of the PSD have already been talking about the implementation level of Portugal 2020. Portugal is first in the implementation of programmes with more than EUR 5000 million at European level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, among the top 10 operational programmes of the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ) and the ESF ( European Social Fund ) in Europe, five of these programmes are Portuguese. The programme with greater implementation of the ERDF, the programme with greater implementation of the ESF are Portuguese! And the gentlemen. Are there any Members here to say that Portugal has a problem with the implementation of the Portugal 2020 programme? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there were any Members from another European country listening to this debate, I should think where it had landed, but clearly it would not be in the country's Parliament with greater implementation of the funds of this partnership agreement at European level. Of course, I would very much argue with any other Member of another European country, Mr Hélder Amaral! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member said that I did not mention the issue of risks in infrastructure. Mr President, I have just mentioned that two-thirds of the Railway 2020 programme, which is by far the largest rail investment programme in Portugal and which is being implemented by this government — I will refer to the speed of implementation — are investment in the security of our railway infrastructure, Mr. So I don't know how you better answer the question of intervention to reduce risks to the safety of our infrastructure. It is two thirds of the 2020 Railway Programme. Mr. Hélder Amaral, with regard to the implementation of the Railway 2020 programme, I have already mentioned in previous hearing that of the tens and dozens of projects that we have to carry out to implement the Railway 2020, I was really surprised, it is true, during the implementation of the programme, because you, after you have executed and done PETI 3 +, neither the execution projects have ordered to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u99	And, Mr. Member, as you know, as I also know and as all Portuguese know, for a country to do works on the railway or to do any other public work there has to be project, you have to make a contest for the project and run the project, you have to make the contest for the work and have the environmental impact declaration before that contest to finally carry out the work. Mr President, when our last debate took place here, I invited you to go through the areas of the country where there are concrete works on the railway. I don't know if you've had a chance to get into your car or a train to be part of this route. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Sir, did you go to the East Line by any chance? Did Elvas go to see the works on the East Line? Did you go to Covilhã to see the works of the piece Covilhã-Guarda, Mr. Deputy? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Was it to the Mininho Line, which was for decades to be electrified and is currently being electrified to the border? He passed the RIV (Integral Way Renewal) from Alfarelos to Pampilhosa, which is already completed? Did you go through the works we did on the High Beira Line, Mr. Deputies? I don't know if it's been through any of these works from the 2020 Railway, but they're concrete works that are there on the ground. I call on you to understand how the security of infrastructure in Portugal is strengthened in particular on the ground. That is how we are doing it, and that is how we are doing it with concrete interventions to improve the rolling stock of river transport. As you know, this week we had a real problem — I am again trying to answer and see if the answers are seized — with one of the Transtejo ships, particularly in the six-year crossing. Mr President, we have the expectation that the problem of repairing this circulating material will still be solved this week. We also have a heavy legacy in the fluvial circulating material. We have, in fact, 12 million in investment in Transtejo and Soflusa, Member of the Commission! When the fleet is short, since new rolling stock has not been bought by the previous government, of course, that intervention in existing materials implies problems, but it also implies solutions. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I repeat therefore that we invest 12 million euros in the recovery of the fluvial rolling stock, Mr. And I am very grateful that I recognized, as I said, that the reprogramming was done to correct what was wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u100	But you haven't corrected yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u101	Who made the initial programming of Portugal 2020 forgot about adult education; gave priority to vocational education, which excluded children from 2. the cycle; gave priority to the requalification of public administration, which was an euphemism for layoffs. Our path was another, and now, with reprogramming, we have more business investment, more skills support, more support for territorial cohesion. That is indeed the place of reprogramming — and I thank the honourable Member for having acknowledged it — which corrected what was wrong in the initial programming. Mr António Topa and Mr Heitor de Sousa, with regard to the balance between investment on the railway and on the highway, we are sure that our strategic priority in this mandate - we have said - since the first day - was for rail investment : to run the 2020 railway, the largest rail investment programme for decades in Portugal, but we have not stopped making some concrete investments, which have already been mentioned here in access to the areas of business location. We have had to do with the State budget, because support for this has not come from Brussels. In Brussels, the previous government's speech, which defies road investment, closed down. A whole legislature spoke of the Faraonic investment in road and then, when the Brussels response came, it was of course negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u102	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u103	We are doing, with competitions launched, the work of Arouca, the work of Paredes de Cura, the work of Famalicão. We are doing work in Viana do Castelo, we are doing concrete works that already correspond to half of our launched program of access to areas of business location. And for all the other works we are doing projects, because we did not find projects in the Infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ), Mr.As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u104	It wasn't those works I was talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u105	We are already, with execution and with works launched, in half of the program and everything else is currently under construction. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, both in road conservation and in rail conservation, we compare ourselves well with the previous government. Mr President, answering your specific question, road conservation has increased 22% between our Parliament and you, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the concrete example I want to give you. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] On the complementary grouping of companies between CP, EMEF and Medway, I must say that it has to do with the strategy we mentioned earlier and that we have already explained here in Parliament. We need to strengthen the work for the company itself done by EMEF so that we can continue to have EMEF working for the CP in order to give it sustainability rather than pursue the previous strategy, which was that of privatization and that of the destruction of EMEF. It is in this context that the complementary grouping of companies is being held. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u106	We moved on to the second round of requests for clarification to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure. First of all, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, aside from ads, repeatedly without account, of investments in the railway, the reality demonstrates that there are planned and announced works that continue with great delays, without compliance with the deadlines. In some cases this is due to a proposed option of costing. in other cases, it is the degree of destruction of the public railway sector, in particular of railway engineering, which prolongs the realization of investments. There is no need in Portugal for a structured investment that integrates the infrastructure, rolling stock and the hiring of workers. We know that the government has repeatedly announced the hiring of workers for EMEF. Well, this year, for the first time in the history of EMEF, this company has fewer than 1000 employees on its staff map. It is necessary to carry out, in good time, the hiring of missing workers in EMEF, because without it the trains will continue to lie down due to lack of maintenance and the systematic supply suppressions will continue. Mr. Minister, the CP, as one and a national public company for the railway sector worked. What PS, PSD and CDS have been doing for years, following the guidance of multinationals and the European Union, is destroying railways through the de-investment, destruction of production equipment and spraying of CP in successive railway packages. The government, which was already preparing the division of EMEF into two more companies, now comes with the new liberalisation package approved on 6th, to speak in greater independence of the infrastructure manager. Do you not realize that the government is the cure that is killing the patient and that it is necessary to catch up on the road and go towards the reunification of the railway? As for the investments in rail, will they finally pass the role and the announcements or will the railway continue to decline, in exchange for two hundredths less than the deficit that the government presents in Brussels? [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u108	The next request for clarification lies with the Green Party. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u109	Mr President, Minister, we accompany Mr Minister when he says that investment and infrastructure must be useful to people and the country. We add until there must also be spatial planning factors. More: in view of the situation we have arrived today, it is imperative that infrastructures have the ambition to go further and to take themselves as rectors of the installed disorder and of the existing regional asymmetries. Today, it is not enough to think of the infrastructure to be programmed on the basis of a contribution to fix populations within. They must be thought and planned to promote a new relocation, this time in a sense contrary to what has happened, that is, moving people from the coast into the interior. in the context of this concern, I would like to ask the Minister four questions. As you know, the Greens have given a lot of attention to the railway sector, in particular to the role it can play in the dynamisation of the country's interior. Now, after the East and Beja lines, whose progress, moreover, we are pleased, I would now like to hear the Government talk about the Corgo Line. The tourist potential of this Line is undeniable, pulling tourists from the Port and also from the Douro Line more into the interior. The benefits in terms of service to the populations are also undeniable—to say, of course, the populations of Alvations of the Corgo, a land where, in fact, not even a bus enters. Students at the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro would now have a much more useful alternative and that would certainly be very welcome. Finally, the costs of this reactivation would be recoverable at various levels, from the point of view of reducing CO2 emissions. What I ask, Minister, is whether the Government has an opening to seriously assess the possibility of reactivating the Corgo Line between Vila Real and the Régua. About Montijo airport, at a time when climate change is or should be the major global concern, to build an airport runway requiring that we steal 350 metres from the Tejo River — still above in a sapal area — I ask where is the concern about combating climate change that should guide our decisions in this investment. Finally, Mr Minister, about the Fridão dam, as you know, the Greens have always opposed the National Barrage Plan and, therefore, in the joint position that we formalised with the PS, a three-year suspension period for the Fridão dam has been established. We believe that, over the past three years, the time has come for the government to define itself. The question I ask you, Minister, is whether the Fridão dam is to forget at once or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u110	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u111	Mr President, Minister, after listening to Mr Minister's speech and recalling the various interventions he has made in this House over the past three years, I believe that the Minister is increasingly equal to himself, he is increasingly an elected propaganda minister! [[PS Protests]] He is increasingly a faithful follower of the “Socratist” school, where he learned and grew politically. [[PSD Applause]] Neither time nor reality pass by. Minister, you don't face reality, you don't take responsibility, you don't solve problems; you only make accusations, you make promises, you only make announcements, several and many, every day of the week. Only a « addit» of virtual reality can call this practice « govern », Minister. Someone who lives in the promise and in the permanent announcement, who denies reality and avoids presenting results of course that forgets its governance. Mr Minister, allow me to call you to reality and, of course, to the reality of the railway. Do you know which government has proposed to the troika the closure of 794 km of railway? You know, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u112	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u113	A 2011 news announces that the government to which you belong proposed the closure of 794 km of rail to the Troika, against the position of the Refer. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u114	Mr Minister, you were part of this government, you were politically responsible in that government and of course that, on your strategic vision, about the strategic vision of the Socialist Party and of the governments to which you have belonged, in terms of rail, we are talking — it is the closure and total destruction of the Portuguese railway! [[PSD Applause]] Mr. Minister, when you come to talk about the legacy of the last government, I remember that if you want VV. Ex. was met, today we had no railway in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u115	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u116	If your will was met, today the country would continue bankrupting and under the intervention of the troika. [[PSD Applause]] Mr Minister, it is good that you have some memory! Mr President, we have been used to a position of totally ignoring reality. The degradation and chaos in rail transport and the movement of trains are a complete denial by the Minister! It's worth looking through some newspapers. I do not know whether Mr. Minister reads newspapers, but it is good that you keep some news in mind. The Minister announced in August this year that the Government was going to buy new trains and borrow trains from Spain. It was a formal promise made by Mr. Minister. What we see every day is the closure, suppression, postponement and delay of numerous trains, but the Minister continues to deny this reality. We want to know, in a very simple way, whether this time the Minister will come to tell us when these trains will arrive. When will the trains that have been requested from Spain, with a formal promise by the Government and by you, be operational? When can CP and Portuguese count on normal train traffic? The Minister sometimes forgets that he is a minister, and he thinks that he is the voice off a mega electoral spot of an accounting government. A minister serves to solve problems, to face reality and, once and for all, to be able to solve the problems of Portuguese people. That is what we hope for from you. That is what we hope the government and you will solve! You have to work and decide now! [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u117	You have the floor, for a final request for clarification in this second round, Mrs. Joana Mortagua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u118	Mr President, Minister, we were at Sixal today, where we could realise that the crossing continues to be done with only one ship, which leads to the abolition of several trips to Lisbon, harming the lives of so many people who need the ships to pass from the south bank to the north bank. however, today there was no confusion that happened yesterday and the reason why this happened is because people are giving up predicting that public transport and finding alternatives to the use of the ships of Transtejo and Soflusa. This is worrying, because the Minister and the Government have announced, as a conquest, a unique step for everyone to move within the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, but this is a good example of how without public investment in quality and the frequency of transport the short pass serves. People may have a pass in their hand, like those people who were at Sixal today, but they're watching ships, because the boat doesn't show up to be able to move to the other side. We do not consider there to be a mystery about how we came to this solution. We know that there is a lack of ships, that there is a chronic disinvestment, a sort of short blanket that, when it covers the feet, clears the head: constantly, it is necessary to remove ships from Montijo to put in Almada, take out of Seixal to put in Montijo, take out of Montijo to put in Seixal. This means that there is a permanent population which is affected by their right to mobility. There is no mystery about how this happened. For four years no one hundred was invested in that company by the PSD / CDS-PP government. They were preparing everything for privatization and still today we do not understand how in 2015 they decided to sell ships of Transtejo and Soflusa. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u119	By the way, they could well explain why, why management rationality is that ships now claiming for that service were sold in 2015 because many lack now. But, Minister, past waters don't move mills... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u120	Three years have passed, there is a medium-term announcement on a competition to bring ships to 2020. The problem is when employers ask workers what time they arrive the next day and workers cannot answer « we arrive in the medium term ». They need to know exactly what time it is. The question that I am asking is: exactly now and until there are new vessels, what measures will the government take to ensure that there is a regular service of Transtex and Soflusa? [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u121	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the CP, as in Transtejo and Soflusa, it is our purpose to have strategic and long-term solutions, but also short-term solutions, in view of the lack of previous decisions on the acquisition of circulating material. On the one hand, hiring more staff—in the case of EMEF, 72 workers have already entered, who are taking medical tests, plus 18... And it is not true that only this year we have arrived at less than 1000 workers in EMEF ; in 2015, we arrived at the end of the year with fewer than 1000 workers in EMEF and at the end of this year we will not be in this situation, because we decided to hire more workers for EMEF. It was a decision of this government that is being executed. Allow me to say, Mr. Members, that the idea of crisis and total chaos in the operation of CP, Transtejo and Soflusa is manifestly exaggerated. Do we have any problems to solve? We certainly do! But the CP yesterday had 99, 7 % regularity and 99, 3 % regularity yesterday. Transtejo and Soflusa had almost 99 % regularity throughout 2018. Is there a problem? There! Is there a shortage of rolling stock in the face of non-purchasing? in CP there were no circulating material purchased 20 years ago, for example! Still—someone asked—what is the strategy? The answer is: with more maintenance of the current circulating material. this year, there were 12 million euros of investment in the maintenance of the circulating material of Transtejo and Soflusa. In view of the concrete situation this week, the rolling stock is being repaired and that ship will still be available this week after repair. Mrs. Members, we are sure that we are always available to continue to assess the ability to maintain and expand our rail network. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, I realize that, in the absence of other arguments, comes the swindling talk of propaganda and comes to talk about the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u123	You're the one who spends his life talking about the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u124	But I would like to recall that in this country it will reopen an absolutely strategic line for the Beira Baixa region, for the international competitiveness of that region. This line will reopen because this government has decided to invest in the link between Covilhã and Guarda. [[PSD protests.]] I understand you want to talk about the past but I'm telling you about works that are happening in the present! The works on the Beira Baixa line are happening now, Mr! The reopening of the section between Covilhã and Guarda is not an empty promise, it is a work that is on the ground, Mr! [[PSD protests.]] It is the work of this government, Mr! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, we will continue to work to deliver concrete results, with a long-term strategy, with the acquisition of circulating material for the CP, with renting of circulating material to Spain, which will have to be to arrive, from the beginning of the year, as we had also committed ourselves to doing. It is not a matter of lending material, as I said — you must inform yourself a little better, Mr President! — but to rent rolling stock, with priority to our regional lines! That is also where we gave priority to the acquisition of new rolling stock. Regional cohesion, for us, is not an empty word. That is why we will reopen the section between the Covilhã and the Guard ; that is why we are electrifying, now, the whole line of the Mininho ; that is why we are doing works there well near the border, on the east line. [[PSD protests.]] We have always directed our priority to the interior and to the international competitiveness of our country. The priority to rail materialises in the duplication of the public investment of the infrastructure of Portugal in 2018! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They were talking about the previous years, but as for the year 2018 they passed a rubber! The public investment of the IP is doubling in 2018 because we made the decisions, because we have concrete works on the ground, and that is what hurts the opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u125	We are now entering the last round of requests for clarification to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure. First of all, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u126	Mr President, Minister, I have noticed that this debate has arrived with a tone, in the absence of a better word, something trickling, saying several things that, I have to confess, have left me a little startled. It is that Mr Minister has come here and said 'the opposition is without speech'. Indeed, Mr. Minister, words and speeches are never missing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u128	The problem is he's missing work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u130	And with the money you have, more work was expected than a word! In fact, Mr Minister has no work, he does not have the facts on his side, he does not have the policies on his side and, curiously, he does not have the memory on his side.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u132	Mr. Minister looked at this bench — did I get it? — and complained of the heavy inheritance of the last government, saying 'we were not left with funding'. Mr President, I should like to remind you that, apart from being the current Minister, he is also the former Secretary of State of the Government of José Socrates. And when he talks about lack of funding, it might be good not to miss his memory to remember that lack of funding and lack of money was what you left! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The heavy inheritance was also what you left, when you left the country near bankruptcy and an inheritance to a government where there could be no money to pay wages and pay pensions! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] That's what you needed to get rid of and wake up to look at this bench and say that. And you can laugh now, but I assure you that you have had no grace, neither for us, nor for the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u133	For many Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u134	...no, if you have memory or shame, for yourself! [[PS protests.]] Secondly, Mr Minister, in addition to former State Secretary of José Socrates, is also current Minister of Mário Centeno, and that means... [[Again?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u135	Mr Minister, speeches are in fact not missing him; unfortunately, he is missing his work and he lacks numbers. [[PS protests.]] And I'll show you. at this time, the speaker displayed a chart on public investment. You see the red numbers? They're the lowest in this period!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u136	And why don't you show the rest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u137	These are the numbers of your responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u138	What about the rest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u139	So when Mr. Minister comes to talk about the heavy inheritance, you know why he does it? Because he has no facts to help him justify the present of his lack of work. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos.]] More: I also see, with great surprise, that the PCP and the Left Block benches ask questions with an air something between the claim and the seraphic, as one who says "we have nothing to do with this! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u140	Here, here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u141	We have much less than you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u142	The gentlemen. Members are responsible for the biggest public investment cut Portugal has ever seen! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] So to the thousands of Portuguese waiting for trains that do not arrive and for ships that do not come, the PCP, the Block and the PS will have to respond! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It's just, they're waiting, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is because you, the three, or, rather, the four — because the Greens are also part of — parliamentary groups together are responsible for the biggest public investment cut that Portugal has ever seen! And, yes, because there was the biggest public investment cut that the country has ever seen, we have the worst public services that the country has ever seen! This is obvious, it's obvious! [[Protests by the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.]] Do you know why, Minister? The Minister comes, like all the members of the government who were there and who came to power, with a very simple message: 'It is possible to do everything at the same time'. They think that there is no need for gradualism, no need to make choices; they think that it is possible to do everything at the same time. Obviously, that is why people are now revolting. That's why people now feel they've been wrong. [[Protests by the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.]] People have indeed been deceived, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u143	Humility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u144	Of course, although saying that it was possible to do everything at the same time, it was not; then reality was imposed. And what have you chosen to sacrifice? They chose to sacrifice public investment! And the Minister here can come up with all the excuses to understand, but the reality of the facts is that the captivations explain this cut. It's not, at all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u145	That's not where we're going!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u146	I'm going that way, Minister. You know why? It is that this government was the champion of captivitys and its Ministry was the champion of captivitys within this government. So he's the champion of the champions! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PS and the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u147	The truth hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u148	Mr Minister, I leave you with two concrete, serene and serious questions. First of all, concerning the railway 2020 plan, I wonder whether it is the bet that Mr. Minister says he is, why is he currently implementing 5 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u149	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u150	I'd like to understand. If we were in the first year of government, I would even understand the explanations you gave. At least one year from the end of the government, I find it a little hard to believe. Secondly, because you are a member of the government and you are a representative of the State, I would like to know—and to repeat the question already put here yesterday—in relation to what happened in Borba, and regardless of a right of return from the State to other public or private entities and the full discharge of responsibilities, whether or not you think the victims of this tragedy have the right to be compensated by the State. It's very simple. It's just answering. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u151	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u152	Mr President, before I address Mr Minister, allow me to make a reference to Mrs Cecilia Meireles' intervention, because it is unbelievable that the CDS, in this debate, with the responsibilities it had when it was in government,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... of termination of services, of dismissal of workers, of cuts in workers' rights, of reduction of public investment, come today to do a whitening exercise as if it did not have any responsibility in what is happening today in the country! [[PCP applause.]] It's just that what happens isn't today, it's been many years, and PSD and CDS have a lot of responsibility for it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We realize you want to pass a rubber on what you did! at this time, the CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães displays the chart previously shown by Mrs Cecilia Meireles on public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u153	Look here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u154	The public deinvestment, Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u155	They've sunk the Seixal boat!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u156	You don't even know where Seixal is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u157	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the lively debate, the Bureau called for the conditions to be established so that the honourable Member could make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u158	You have to give them tea of thylia, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u159	Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u160	Mr. President, thank you very much. I understand the inconvenience, but, Mr. Member, today I was at Sixal and didn't see him there, nor did I see anyone from your party, nor the PSD, nor the PS... [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Who was there with the population was the PCP! Mr. President, Minister, I wanted... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u162	Tilia tea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u163	Mrs. Members, the Bureau calls for the conditions to be established so that Mrs Paula Santos can request clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u164	Mr President, here I would like to bring up a topic related to road routes. Public de-investment, the granting of road traffic management to private groups have been responsible for the degradation of our country's roads. There is a drastic reduction in the repair and maintenance of road infrastructures, whether by the State, with the loss of technical and operational capacity of it, due to the progressive dismantling of the areas of design, implementation and supervision, whether by concession contracts that are not met, the necessary investments are not being made, all so that private groups can obtain greater profit. The safety and maintenance of road routes were secondary, leaving it no longer a priority and becoming a cost. In addition, the Government wants to transfer to the authorities the management and maintenance of national roads which are degraded without their means.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u165	Oh, don't tell me! Is it from now on? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u166	The government shakes responsibility for others by transferring burdens and unsolved problems to the authorities. The recent event in Borba calls for caution, but it also shows that the transfer of roads to the authorities is not the solution, serving only in order for the government to take responsibility for its competence to safeguard the safety of the populations. Mr Minister, if in fact this government wants to solve problems and to protect the people, then do not rule out their responsibilities: reverse PPPs (public-private partnerships) and strengthen the investment and the capacity of the State to give the answer that is necessary exactly to safeguard the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u167	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Barbosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u168	Mr President, Minister, the machinist workers of the Port Metro are in struggle. This fight is aimed at collective bargaining, an agreement in which workers see their working conditions improved and reduced or compensated for the penosity in the performance of the same work. It is the concern of the workers to continue to provide an excellent service in terms of hours and, above all, in safety. For this reason, they demand the fall in the hourly load, thus mitigating the penocity of their work, as well as improving the conditions of rolling stock and improving infrastructure. The Block follows this fight and is supportive of those who do not give up fighting. The State is the holder of 40 % of the share capital of the Port Metro, therefore the Government has a key role in defining the public transport model, in particular as regards the quasi-compulsory nature of the holding being carried out by a private undertaking or directly by the State. Knowing the Minister of Workers' Claims, even before drawing up the book of charges for the sub-concession process, it is his obligation not to forget the safeguarding of his rights. This guarantee depends on you, as a minister who protects the sector and, above all, as responsible for the way in which the sub-concession process itself was conducted. Here, it is important to know whether the government will intervene, forcing the sub-concessionary company to respond to workers' demands. What does the government have to say to the Port Metro workers? Do you recognise that the demands of these workers are fair? For the Left Block, the solution goes structurally by reverse sub-concession and passing into the hands of the State an essential service such as that of transport. Does the Government follow the Block's position on the end of the sub-concession or does it continue to remain inflexible in the delivery of public transport services to private individuals? The result has been bad for everyone, bad for passengers, bad for workers, who are now called to pay the invoice, when you want to win the sub-concession contest at any price. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u169	You have the floor to make the last request for clarification of this last round, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u170	Mr President, Minister, all the Alentejo — all of it, from north to coast — has reasons to be displeased and displeased with the political options that over the decades have been leaving Alentejo to years-light of development, and for which this government has not reversed the direction. We cannot disguise the dissatisfaction of all Alentejos with the absence of a policy of use and empowerment of existing infrastructures in our Alentejo. This is the example of Beja Airport, the key piece of an integrated development plan, which is practically abandoned, and which continues to be not part of Mr. Minister's accounts. Another example is the lack of investment in rail and rolling stock, which, in addition to issues of loss of quality and comfort, also raises a question of safety. Another case is the successive postponement of works on some roads and the non-ending of others. In fact, Mr Minister, we fear that some work will end, because you have the bad habit of closing and not opening them, not allowing them to be used. There is also a lack of implementation of what is included in the National Roadmap. What the CFP advocates is the promotion of mobility in its various components, namely: the railway, with the new connection Evora-Caia, boosting the traffic of the port of Sines and the development of the productive sector of the region, which does not want to "be seen passing trains"; The retraining and electrification of the East Line from Abrantes to Elvas, including its approach to the city of Portalegre ; The requalification and electrification of the Alentejo Line, between White House, Beja and Funcheira, restating quality services, regional and intercities, in the connections between Lisbon and the Algarve ; The road, with the improvement of roads, in a mesh perspective, allows access between all locations and structural routes connecting to the main centres and to the outside. What Alentejo needs, in terms of infrastructure, Mr Minister, is railway and road links to respond to the transport of passengers and goods. And it needs these connections to be articulated with Beja airport, taking into account its valleys, characteristics, availability and potential. Mr Minister, I ask you: when are you going to respond to the needs of Alentejo infrastructures that are growing every day? How long are you going to postpone the necessary investments in the Alentejo? What word do you have to say to the proposals that the CFP has put forward in this House and that have been approved, and to the movements, as is the case with the Alentejo Platform, which you have heard and attended? What prospects do they have for meeting their proposals? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u171	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u172	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, regarding the seizures, does not hurt me, but you could have informed me a little bit better before you come back with that conversation of the captivitys. Mrs Deputy, have you been informed about the seizures that survived by the end of the year, in the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u173	Sure, sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u174	Do you know that they were less than 5 % of the total captives of the Ministry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u175	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u176	Already, it has been reported about the captivatings for 2018 that had a cut of almost 60 %, Mrs Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u177	And compared to what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u178	Have you forgotten to say anything about this matter to the country, Madam Member? Mrs Deputies, in these circus numbers which the CDS often does with the posters, do not think that, since you accused me of being defaced, that, in order to have, I would say, a minimum of parliamentary clearance—we call it this way, not to accuse you of being defaced too, so that your poster should have what is stated in the Budget which has already been approved here?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u179	You haven't seen anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u180	You may have voted against, but there is in the Budget a preview of the implementation of the 2018 investment and the investment for 2019! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Why does your poster only have the investment until 2017, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u181	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u182	Why did you forget the rest of the legislature? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Do you know why you forgot? Because the investment in 2017 has grown 23 % and in 2018 it will grow 16 %. And in the Infrastructures of Portugal, in 2018, the investment will double, Mrs. Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Do you know how much you're going to grow in 2019? It's going to grow 17%!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u183	Go, go! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u184	Do you know why you didn't put the years of 2018 and 2019 in that poster? Because the investment, in those years, was already above 2015, and that didn't work. There is no way for this Parliamentary 'number', Mrs Deputy! It doesn't work, I get it! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member asked me about the implementation of the Infrastructure Investment Plan 2020 and I have already said here: you, who had done PETI 3 + ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 2014 - 2020 ) and who had discussed it with other parties, and the projects did not have to do so! Mrs Deputy did not run that ministry that protected the infrastructure, but she has those in her party who have an obligation to inform because her party has come to have protection from that ministry at the end of the last legislature. You also have responsibility for not even projects in the Ministry. Does the honourable Member know that a project takes about a year to contract and another year to carry out? Why do you think it's 2018 that public investment is doubling in the railway, Mrs. Deputy? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We had to do the projects that Minister Pires de Lima did not leave in the Ministry of Economics! That's the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also has the CDS face the absence of projects to have public investment in this country. In 2018, the investment in the railway, which I said whenever it was our priority, is doubling, Mrs Deputy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You are doubling on the Mining Line, on the East Line, on the North Line, on the High Beira Line, on the Low Beira Line, Mrs. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There's concrete investment! It is doubling, yes, and it will grow significantly again, in 2019 and in the following years, Mrs. Mrs Paula Santos, we do not ignore the need to continue to articulate with the authorities the question of decentralization, but we do not pass any kind of statement of incompetence to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u185	They don't pass the means!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u186	What was transferred automatically was road management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u187	They're missing the means!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u188	You know the diploma, so you have an obligation to know that it expressly excludes from the management of roads the issue of maintenance. Maintenance will only one day pass to the authorities, if the domain transfer occurs. And this domain transfer only occurs with a concrete agreement, road to road, between the Infrastructures of Portugal and each of the municipalities. I do not pass a statement of incompetence to the authorships who will eventually agree to this domain transfer. We trust the authorities, we trust their role, in the management of public policy, Mrs Deputy. The diploma is quite clear and you have an obligation to know. Mr Fernando Barbosa, I am sure that collective bargaining is a legitimate right of workers and is one of the forms of social rights to move forward in a country. It is precisely in the freedom of collective bargaining that must reside in our bet and that is, between companies and workers, that agreements must be found, without launching any anathema against the company or the unions. This is because it is through collective bargaining that, historically, more social inequalities among workers have been reduced. Mr. João Dias, Alentejo deserves an opportunity, yes. She deserves it, and she's got it! The largest rail investment in the last 100 years of this country is being made where, Mr. Deputy? It's being done in the Alentejo! A new line, which had not been built in this country for 100 years, where will it be made? It's in the Alentejo, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u189	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u190	You know - and I already said here - that the National Investment Programme 2030 will be discussed with all parties with parliamentary seats. I have already said, in other circumstances, that all Alentejo should have the opportunity to access development and that means that the Low Alentejo and the High Alentejo should have the same opportunities as the Central Alentejo or the Alentejo Coast. It was us, Mr. Deputy, this government announced that it will begin the railway line electrification project to Beja, which will also be a very important project to enhance Beja Airport, as you know. You know that we are going to discuss here the National Investment Programme of the next decade, but we have a clear objective: all Alentejo has to have the same opportunities as the most developed territories of that region, Mr. And it is again the railway, it is again the public investment that will make the difference! That's our vision. We have conditions now: we have put the public accounts in order, we have mobilised the Community funds, we have made the implementation projects, we have launched the public tenders! We are running the largest rail investment programme in recent decades in this country, which is the Railway 2020, which will leave a betting mark on the railway for many years in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u191	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the speeches, the first of which is the Left Block. Mr. Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group today called for public investment in infrastructure, too broad a topic, so the debate ended by focusing on investment in transport infrastructure. in this context, we all know that decisions that have consequences for the lives of people, companies and the state are decisions whose reach becomes more significant, almost always, in the medium and long term. When the CDS decided to make this inquiry, it was certainly counting on the hypothetical mental blackout of Portuguese and Portuguese on all the wrong choices that the previous Government decided to make in terms of transport and infrastructure policy. For example, one of the first decisions of the previous Government was in the State Budget for 2012 to make a brutal increase in the transport price, which, on average, represented an increase of more than 26 %, but in most of the securities and passes, was equivalent to increases in some cases more than 100 %. This decision had serious consequences, the most visible results of which were: a brutal reduction in demand for public transport, an exponential increase in the movement of private vehicles, more congestion in traffic and a serious reduction in social productivity, due to increased loss of time in public transport; and an exponential increase in fraud in public transport, not because the right has resumed the fair claim of the university students of « We do not pay! », but because, as it ceased to invest in public transport, there was no way to ensure effective supervision in transport. Of course, the blame was always on the state's "fats" or on the mismanagement in which the public sector is "condemned" to fall and which, concomitantly, were made the indispensable praise to the private sector. from here to defend the privatization of everything that stirs in the sector was just one step, and that's exactly what was tried to happen. They failed to do so because the Portuguese and Portuguese defeated these attempts when they had the opportunity to speak in elections. Therefore, in this matter, the CDS, as, moreover, the PSD exhibits a great mental blackout. by the visas, this blackout is extended to the attempt to relieve its responsibilities for the brutal reduction of public investment in this sector, which, to a large extent, explains the serious operational failures with which all companies in the public transport sector are debating today. More and more people are using public transport, to a large extent because transport policy has been reversed. however, transport is increasingly scarce and discomfort, revolt and indignation due to lack of transport are increasing. This contradiction exists, it has several explanations and, above all, stirs with decisions that, once again, have been wrong and, fortunately, belong to the past. An example of this outrage was what was recorded yesterday in the ships of the Transtejo, which serve the Seixal-Lisboa career, in which there was a fair popular revolt against the suppression of ships that make the Sodré-Sexal Sixal Sixal service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u193	If only I were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u194	Why did that happen? Because there was the immobilization of a boat on Sunday and there was no way to replace it. in this simple case, the problem is not that there has been a failure on a ship, there has been no other to take the place of the first one. And why? Because the planned maintenance investment was not made in time, because there was sale of ships to the wreck, because it was brutally cut in maintenance, because it did not take care of renewing the ship's navigational certificates and points, because the average age of the fleet varies between 45 and 55 years, etc. In short, it has failed and lack of investment, and this can only be corrected by investing that direction. What happens with river transport is also about transport and railway infrastructure as well as public public transport in general. in this investment, in the defence and promotion of a public transport policy that is an essential strategic tool to combat climate change and achieve the energy transition from carbon to clean energy, rail transport is the priority set by the European Union, within the framework of the Energy Roadmap 2050, which aims to reduce the polluting emissions of greenhouse gases from 80 % to 95 % compared to 1990.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u195	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u196	I will now finish, Mr President. We are too late on the way to this grand goal. Then let's make that way! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u197	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, Mr President, to begin this intervention with statements by Minister Pedro Marques, delivered in April 2018, during the debate on the National Reform Plan. Mr. Minister said the following: « After the paralysis we found in which not the projects were done, we launched the 2020 Railway, an ambitious programme for the modernization and construction of railways in about half of the national network, of which we have more than 300 km of works on the ground. (...) The territories of the interior which we have chosen as a priority since the beginning of the legislature are central to our government action». It is, Mr Minister, that I have just mentioned may be in your head as desire, but the reality and life of the Portuguese is another, it is very painful and it gets worse every day. All of this, Mr Minister said this in April this year and it is not true. You did not find the Ministry in paralysis in 2016, you found a Ministry that had just come out of a black public finance framework, where you also had your responsibilities as a ruler.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u200	The PSD and CDS government has been obliged to capitalize and restructure companies, giving them sustainability, rationality and reasonableness. This is what you have found: a sustainable public finance framework. That is why these public transport companies guarantee the public service in 2015 with better indicators than we have today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u201	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u202	Even with regard to your citation of April 2018, it is not true either, it is a lie, which at the time or now has to be built within the framework of the 2020 Railway, 300 km on the ground. This ambitious project of modernization and railway construction, which he was talking about, is only 10 km of electrification on the Minco Line, in a section between Nine and Barcelos. This is to play trains, Minister, it's very little! But in reality you don't have to present just a few miserable 5 % of implementation in Ferrovia 2020. There's no work, but advertising has a lot. And it is enough to put into work projects that are not yet under study. As for the interior territories, it is also not true that the interior is central and priority in your government action. Moreover, this government deprives the poorest regions of the funds that were directed to them through the POSEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use), diverting these funds to the expansion of the metro, which will be no more than an interfregation car in the city of Lisbon and which will serve only a set of real estate interests. [[PSD applause.]] In April 2018, you said: « Now it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We're in December, and what do the Portuguese have? They have less public investment. To give an example only in 2016 and 2017, this government invested less than EUR 50 million than the previous government had invested in 2015. In two years they cut, by means of captivating, EUR 1400 million of investment. And your coalition crutches, what do you say about this? Nothing! They scream in the strikes, they let themselves be arrested, they deceive the workers, they deceive the Portuguese, but in Parliament they vote disciplinaryly and remain silent. This tragic decapitalization at present translates into much worse health services, serious difficulties in education and public transport services as never before.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u203	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u204	Practically independence and, with this, the perfect storm in the services offered to users. Also on the road, the government has abandoned the Portuguese. Just leave the highways and enter the national roads to check the deplorable state of the roads, which aggravates the safety of the citizens. Trains are deleted every day, in regions where there is no alternative transport and where the next train is just, imagine, the next day! The boats, purely and simply, do not exist, as it happened yesterday, at the Seixal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u205	Don't the boats exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u206	Promises are not missing. Promises of new boats since 2016, but, one day, four come in another ten, but still have not discovered, as Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, a manufacturer of ships compatible with navigation on the Roof! [[Risos from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] As a rule, maintenance is carried out by withdrawing parts from broken trains and boats for those at the service and, in order to help all this, Mr. Minister, as soon as he took possession, cancelled a train rental program to Spain, claiming that it was preferable to purchase. It happens that it ended up not renting, did not buy and delayed the purchase of trains for three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u207	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u208	Without acquisition and renting, it would be logical to prepare a contingency plan, carrying out a maintenance effort and strengthening EMEF personnel in order to recover the circulating material abandoned on the lines to meet immediate needs. The trains, however, do not arrive and, at best, will certainly arrive in 2023 because the government has, by political option, kicked off the acquisition of trains for future legislatures, in this case, by 2023 - 2027 — yes, by political option! But also as a future strategy, the government is putting a strain on the development of the economy when it does not take as its central strategy the integration of our rail network into the trans-European transport networks. This decision conditions the future of Portuguese for many years, wasting Community funds. The difference between our network and the rest of Europe does not allow the direct transport of people and goods to the main European destinations, with the aggravating that we will soon not cross our borders, since Spain is building its European bitola network. Portugal will become a kind of railway island, totally isolated from the economic point of view, hostage to the logistics centres of Badajoz, Salamanca and Vigo. Sines will not be connected to Europe, as Mr. Prime Minister says, is a lie, because the containers will have to tranship trains and, therefore, Sines will lose competitiveness in front of other ports.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u209	What a great expert! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u210	The Government does not realize that avoiding competition when the whole of Europe liberalizes the sector is a measure without rationality, which will in future represent higher costs for exporters and the impossibility of consumers being able to benefit from the reduction in market prices. It is this abandonment, sense and lived by hundreds of thousands of Portuguese every day, which concerns us and moves us. on this occasion, I leave you with an advice, Minister : « Stop, listen and look! » Stop propaganda, listen to the Portuguese and look at reality, without fantasies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u211	Mr President, your statement has merited a request for clarification from Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these debates are very important to clarify the Portuguese on the political alternatives they have before them. And these political alternatives should be analyzed by the diagnosis of problems, but also by the solutions that the political forces represented here in this Plenary present to solve these problems. The facts speak for you. in reality, the diagnosis presented by the CDS and the PSD has no cabling, has no substrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I will not even use the information Mr. Minister brought here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u213	You'd better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u214	I shall use the words of the European Commissioner for Regional Policy, who was here in Parliament last week and who informed us that Portugal is the country of Europe which has best benefited from the Structural Funds and has now presented the best public investment plan in particular in the context of the reprogramming of European funds. So today we also know that, apart from this challenge that is being overcome by the government, the causes are clear and the Portuguese know - so. The PSD and CDS dismantled the state and public services. While they were government, PSD and CDS gave up public investments because they felt that private investment was sufficient for the country's progress and the development of the quality of life of Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] While they were government, PSD and CDS removed the ability of local authorities to resolve locally the problems they faced, in particular, from the point of view of road conservation. While they were government, PSD and CDS dismantled public companies, including public transport companies, thinking that the solution was the privatization of these companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u215	Don't turn away from the matter! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u216	Therefore, what we know from the diagnosis point of view is that the various situations that this government has to resolve today are not, in fact, the responsibility of the current government, but of the former government, of the heavy inheritance left by it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u217	2011 bankruptcy! You're absolutely right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u218	But in this debate it would be essential for the CDS and PSD to present alternative solutions. What are the political priorities for infrastructure? What are the solutions presented to the Portuguese to solve the problems diagnosed here?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u219	All those who are in the 2020 Strategy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u220	These are the solutions for the future that interest the Portuguese. Are the solutions, as in the past, privatize EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company)? Dismantling STCP(Port Collective Transport Society )? Dismantling EP (Estradas de Portugal )? Continue to centralize the management of road conservation interventions in the central administration, removing the authorities from their competences? So the question that I leave to the PSD is this: are these the solutions that they want to repeat in the future, to solve the problems why they came here to hold the government responsible and which, as you know, are your responsibility? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u221	To reply, Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u222	Mr President, I thought the Socialist Party would ask me questions. He didn't do it and spoke generically about it. I will therefore respond to the priorities. The first aspect I would like to mention, Mr Commissioner, is that managing a network of infrastructures is not managing the track of Playmobil that we have at home, and our Minister of Planning and Infrastructure sometimes thinks that this is the track of Playmobil. however, Mr Deputy, the PSD received a country in bankruptcy. The Socialist Party has already received a growing country in 2016. in these circumstances, we are talking. Now, and on priorities, we hoped that the Minister would give us some light on, for example, an issue which I raised in my speech: the issue of European bottleneck. What does the Socialist Party think about this issue? Another issue, since we are in the days of concluding the public service contract with the CP, is that we do not even know what the lines, services and frequencies are. Mr President, these are our priorities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u223	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u224	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public infrastructures are the physical basis necessary to ensure public services, giving functional fulfillment to an important part of the social functions of the State. It happens that, throughout our history, many works have been programmed without the public interest being above all other interests. Therefore, the portrait of our infrastructure often wins: ill-defined contours and heavy costs during and after the work, as is the case of the School Park ; spillovers in absolutely unacceptable time, as was the case with the construction of the Marão tunnel ; evidence of harmful management, in which the cost of investment is borne by the public record and the economic benefits are collected by the private sector, as is the case with the PPPs (public-private partnerships) of health or road roads; and finally works where the cement grey is superimposed on the green of nature and in which the environmental impacts are constantly omitted, as is the case of your dam in the High Douro Vinhateiro. It is not surprising, therefore, that whole regions, especially the interior, have remained at the edge of investment in public infrastructure, exacerbating interiority and depopulation and wasting all the potential in these regions. We believe that it is time to reverse this situation. But the Greens doubt that these were the real concerns of this CDS-PP initiative. Why? Because we have not yet forgotten that the CDS was part of a government that sold important public infrastructure, such as the CTTs, which closed courts and other public services throughout the country, with a special focus on the interior, which drew, for four years, the works on public infrastructures of relevance, such as the Marão tunnel, and which determined the country's investment priorities according to the major international trade and freight circuit transactions and the delivery of these equipment to private. Therefore, we said and said that in the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan left by the PSD/CDS Government, the public projects considered as priority further emphasized the country's coastalization and gave priority in the area of transport to goods. As we warned at the time, this investment guidance and planning would not only exacerbate regional asymmetries as well as benefit very clearly and primarily, not to say exclusively, large economic sectors that do not contribute to the social development of the country. This was not, at all, an ecological proposal for the development of the territory, and it is this direction that it is imperative to reverse, because the public interest must take itself as a central element of investment in public infrastructures, for the benefit of the people and for the harmonious development of the country. A final note, just to refer to the only novelty that the CDS today brought the debate: we heard the CDS accuse the PS of privatizing the CTTs. Well, when the finger is accused and pointed out, even if it is not true, it is because it is not in agreement with the decision and therefore it is legitimate to expect the CDS to vote in favour of the proposal which the Greens intend to bring to Parliament in order to reverse the process of privatization of TTCs. Let's hope so. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u226	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u227	Mr President, we were planning to make an intervention at the end of the debate, and there are no further parliamentary groups, but we can do it now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u228	It will certainly have an intervention at the closing stage, but this will only be later.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u229	Mr President, I am referring to the CDS-PP last intervention at the end of the other interventions and before the closing phase. In any case, I can do it right now, there is no problem, we do not take any quality to the debate. Unless the Socialist Party wants to make its intervention now and we will do it next.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u230	Mr President, you have signed up for an intervention and you have the floor to do so. The closing phase will only be later.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u231	All right, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : I would like to say that the CDS is not convinced that it is always right, that it is always right, but that it always places in its interventions rigour and truth. Therefore, the data used here by Mrs Cecilia Meireles are afferable data via the Directorate-General for Budget, through the General Accounts of the State, in relation to what the Government effectively does. So if the government promises a public investment and makes a tenth of that public investment, we cannot expect things to be different at the end of the 2019 Budget. Even I believe that the government does not always have to comply with everything it says, but we have legitimate and well-founded reasons for doubting the government's proposals. It is that if we look at the Infrastructure Investment Plan 2020 and at what is there as a date for the completion of the works, the work of the Caíde-Marco, for example, was concluded in 2016, which is not true. So with this experience, with this record, with this past, we have to doubt the word of the Government of Management — we and the Portuguese! That is why we only use, by security, data already provided and afferable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u233	Moreover, I would like to ask a question — to which the Socialist Party will be able to respond in its next intervention — because I have recorded all the criticisms and I like to learn from the opposition. [[PS laughter.]] [[With the opposition?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u234	The Socialist Party stated that the indefinitions in the structural projects of Beja and Alqueva Airport, in the road accessibilitys of IP8 and IP2 and in the railway links were the mark of a policy of destruction of the interior carried out by a neoliberal right government. This is why the Socialist Party accuses the previous government. And that's what I learned. So, I would like to ask if, between the road accessibilitys of IP8 and IP2 and the structural projects of Alqueva, there is some work done. If there is no completed work, you are far worse than the previous government, because you promise and fail to do so! Tell me, Minister: what happened to the road accessibilitys of IP8 and IP2? This has been asked you here a lot of times! The Socialist Party's bench also stated in a debate marked by this party on the National Investment Plan, and referring to PETI 3 + ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 2014 - 2020 ), the following : « As soon as it took office, the current government took the options of the previous government's planning ». So I would like to ask you the following question: if the Socialist Party, in the discussion of the National Investment Plan, claimed to take on the previous plan, why does it say that at the end of the legislature it did not have time to make projects, did it not have time to plan, did it not have to finish?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u235	Because you didn't do your part!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u236	Therefore, the criticism that we are at the end of the year and it was already necessary to have done the work is true and it is legitimate. You took up the previous plan and were fooling the Portuguese for three years. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u237	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u238	Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to mention another mistake, another mistake. Do you know this document? at this moment, the speaker displayed the document he mentioned. This document was left to you by the previous government, by that Minister of the CDS who was protecting the infrastructure. It is here written: CP 21... [[Protests by the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.]] Mr Minister, I won't tell you about it! I will tell you about the lifting of the deficiencies of the rolling stock of the CP ( Trains of Portugal ). They were identified in this document!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u239	And you buy trains with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u240	And you know what Mr. Minister did? Do you know what the management government has done? He took in this document, read very well what the electric fleet and diesel fleet needed, read very well what were the difficulties of CP and EMEF, and he might have even doubted this document, finding another plan, with more or less ambition, adapted to the economic circumstances of the country. in that case, I would have even done something, which is what they asked you now. However, what Mr Minister did was totally incompetence: he ignored this or other document for four budgets and now announces, by 2022 - 2023, the acquisition of rolling stock. And, just and alone, for regional service!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u241	Trains can come in 18 months! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u242	What about the long-running trains, Minister? Oh, my God! What about the suburban trains? Oh, my God! [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u243	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u244	Where are the forecasts, as they were identified, for the Cascais Line, for the Sintra Line or for the long course? Or even for railway connections to the ports?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u245	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u246	So when the CDS asks questions, has doubts and demands investments, it does not because it wants it, it does because it looked at the documents, proposals and promises of the government and is simply asking them to execute exactly what they promised. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u247	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet all those who, in today's debate, have in some way contributed to the construction of a better Portugal and, for the most part, allow me not to be able to welcome the CDS and PSD benches,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... who once again showed up in this House without any notion of the subjects that came to discuss. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to elucidate you on the obvious, but, of course, it is difficult to interpret for you: to destroy, as Mrs Catarina Martins said yesterday, is much faster than to recover. [[It's true, it's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u249	In fact, you have been very thin in the destruction and are very slow today to understand the work that the left-wing majority has had to do in this Parliament. But the right parliamentary minority, besides presenting itself angry with the country, is also angry with the success of this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u250	And with each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u251	...and that's what we also wanted to say a few things. We have heard absolutely unbelievable things here today. at the PSD bench, you could say the most amazing things and get out of here with a smile on your face. And, in fact, we just don't smile because the statements made here are serious. They talked about the highway — and they lied! They talked about the railway and accused us of being isolated from the rest of Europe — just imagine, a government that wants to isolate Portugal from the rest of the world! But, moreover, in river connections, those where the PSD and the CDS-PP ordered — because it was the shareholder state that made these decisions — the sale of a ship from the Transtejo / Soflusa — and the Portuguese have to know this and we have to repeat it to exhaustion — that they considered surplus. Excessive, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This was the consideration of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But today they present themselves here saying that the fleet is short. The fleet is short, but you didn't order any boats. And, with regard to that document which Mr Hélder Amaral has presented here, I would like to ask you: how many invitations have your Government launched with that document? How many cars did you get? What was the fleet renewal you made? After all, it's what's in your hand: it's paper! Just like what you came here to do: it was a mere paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u252	It's your role!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u253	The CDS-PP was in love today. We already know the CDS' passion for farming, we know the CDS' passion for taxpayers, we also know the CDS' passion for pensioners—and we know it was all bad love. But, in relation to the CDS passion for strikers, one thing must be said: it was on December 12, 2014 that Paul Portas said the strike was an act of selfishness. So we asked: isn't this the same CDS as Paulo Portas? It is a question that needs to be put for the Portuguese to know exactly the shame of your arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u254	Not to be ashamed is your intervention! It's really a shameless thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u255	Let me tell you more, gentlemen. Members: With regard to rail, it is also important to highlight the investments that are being made, the investments that are being made for the first time in 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u256	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u257	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying the following: this is a government that has managed to put Portugal, in terms of Community funds, first. This is a government that has managed to have the Programme with greater implementation. It is also the government that has 5 of the 10 projects with better implementation. And then you ask yourself, is it not enough to be the first one on the right? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u258	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is quite revealing, but it does not stop being, at the same time, revolting, when we hear Members, who may go to the Cacilhas and to the Sixth of Drivers but who do not know how to catch the boat there, to come here about the state in which river transport is located. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u260	Whoever gets here as a driver is the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u261	It's revolting, too, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, because we heard about transport problems, highlighting the problem yesterday in Sixal, as if the problem was what happened yesterday. The problem isn't yesterday, and much less it's a boat! It is from entire fleets and a policy of decades, of indigent investment in maintenance, which only continues because the PS and PS have not approved, and have not approved again, the proposals that the CFP once again presented in the State budget. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is that when we put forward a proposal for strengthening funds for Transtex and Soflusa, when we proposed that we could unlock, including in the bureaucratic plan, what is planned for the maintenance of fleets either in river transport or in rail transport, what happened was that the proposal of the CFP was rejected, with votes against the PS and the abstention of the PSD. It was this parliamentary majority that prevented the adoption of the necessary measures to ensure that the problems were solved. And the gentlemen. Members only talk about what happened yesterday at Sixl because, yesterday at Sixl, there was a scream of revolt of users and populations! [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u262	For years, workers and users have been struggling to denounce the problem that exists and for which, here, in the House, we have repeatedly been alerting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u263	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u264	I will finish, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be content with this alleged inevitability to choose between those who say they kill and those who say they steal. Another policy is really necessary and urgent! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u265	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : in a style that shocks a little, because it reminds José Socrates, the Minister for three years has come here, provocatively and arrogantly, to clear promises and achievements. It happens that in the last year of mandate, we would like to see achievements and not promises. We'd like to see what you've done! In good rigour, the model of governance that you have adopted was based on two principles: captivate and promise. And when there is no answer, there is a good solution: the guilt of the PSD. Of what? In general, it is the PSD's fault! [[PS laughter.]] It happens that your rhetoric shocks in front of reality. And we asked: Portuguese, Lisbon airport, airports, TAP — to such a public TAP — are they serving them better? to those on the train we ask: Portuguese, trains have better service? Are they arriving in hours? Do you feel that there is improvement today? to those who walk on the highway, except on falling roads, we ask: Portuguese, do you feel there is investment on the highway? This is all that shocks the reality and those who listen to us know that it is not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u267	Portuguese, who do you trust? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u268	Minister, this is the government that invests less! As much as they say otherwise, it is the government that invests less! And it is not worth the CFP to come to pretend that it does not support it, because this is your government and this is your achievement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u269	And that's your problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u270	And the Portuguese know that's true! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u271	You now have a word to close the debate by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of the debate, we will be clear and say that in 2018 we will have the highest tax and tax burden since there is registration and, in the same year, the lowest quality of public services ever. The Portuguese today realize that, after all, austerity has not ended, that the promise of investment in State services was just that, a promise, and that the State — the government and the majority that supports it — has abandoned a part of Portugal to its fate. He left the Portuguese in the 2017 fires, either in Pedrogão or in the Central Country area. He abandoned them in Monchique last year, or on the road, in Borba, a few weeks ago, at the same time hostileing firefighters. He abandoned the transport users in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, particularly in Setúbal, and in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, which, daily, are confronted with the third-worldist dilemma of whether they have or not transport to go to work, who wait and despair for carriages, boats and buses that do not arrive, do not exist or are suppressed, but hostile the workers of Carris, CP, Fertagus, Soflus or Metro, at the same time. He abandoned the users of the National Health Service, delaying the construction of hospitals, which has been entering four consecutive years in the State Budget, delaying surgeries, interventions and consultations, and hostileing doctors and nurses, at the same time. He abandoned students and education officials, delaying the rehabilitation and construction of schools, who have always claimed in opposition and promised in the government, but who do not leave the role, hostileing teachers and educational assistants, at the same time. He abandoned the citizens who resorted to justice, opening up « care centres», where he promised to reopen courts, hostileing judges, judges, judicial officials or prison guards at the same time. He abandoned the security forces and services, not ensuring the necessary renewal of the security forces, teams and barracks that he promised, hostileing PSP (PSC) agents, GNR ( Republican National Guard) and investigators of the Judicial Police and the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service) at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u273	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u274	All this, without any responsibility! If it is not of time, it is of Europe; if it is not of the private ones, it is of the local authorities; if it is not of the international context, it is of the professional classes, which are ungrateful, irresponsible and even protesting. But always, always and always, and in any case, the greater responsibility is that of the previous government, which committed the « evil» of removing the country from the socialist bankruptcy, to which many socialists today, like then rulers, led the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, it is appropriate to say that the farce is over. Four years back, four Budgets after taking the power that the polls have not given you, your responsibility is all yours! [[CDS-PP applause.]] They did not plan, they did not organize, they did not execute, they did not comply, they did not govern and until now they left ideas, such as that of the Lisbon airport, which they announced but they feared to forget, or they arranged compensation in the courts for our citizens who left without any kind of protection. The truth is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a state that is a recordist in taxing the Portuguese. Yeah, raising taxes with both hands on the incomes they say they've returned, but only with one. We have the highest tax burden ever. « They are not direct taxes on income», Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs would say. No, they're not. But they are direct about the consumption of essential and direct goods on the provision of essential public services that affect Portuguese. They are, regardless of their nature, what they are: costs, charges, trials, taxes, taxes, charges on citizens! And the truth, that hurts you, is that never so many have paid so much to receive so little in return. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And they may well, the PCP and the Left Block, come to make the usual ability to pretend that they do not know, do not hear or do not see, or that they are even opposition in free times when they approve State budgets, which, today, by shipwrecking so much heavy consciousness, as it has been seen, it is necessary to say that, almost four years later, four budgets in favor after that, four votes are no longer just complicit in this policy, are material authors of a policy of masked austerity, which questions the security and quality of life of the Portuguese. And you can go there, Mr Bruno Dias, apologize to the users that the truth—and, if they know, they won't like to have been cheated—is that the City Council of the Sixth criticizes the government and you vote here for an Budget that takes boats from the people of the Sixth. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Hypocrisy has limits! And shamelessness too! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, history will judge-CL like this: as the Government of the Left united which, in the best internal and external context of the last 30 years, has provided the worst public service to the Portuguese of these last 30 years. They don't want to know, they don't want to hear, they don't want to see, as it's shown today. It is that, indeed, today you have proved what really matters to you: the power for power and its maintenance. It's the custom, we know the Socialist Party well. We got to know the Left Block today and the PCP. Today, the Portuguese know what they count on you. from the CDS, they will always have one party that does not say one thing and votes another. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Do you know who's laughing, Mr Bruno Dias? Whoever laughs is the one who voted in the PCP at Sixal and today he sees the honourable Member voting in favour of the State budget that cuts money for the ships of Sixal! That laughs, yes, of his hypocrisy! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the Socialist Party at its best: good to promise and bad to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u275	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u276	I conclude, Mr. President. on our part, we will not let the result be the same as again and that the country goes back to bankruptcy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u277	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here, Mr President, is the state of this opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This opposition that, at a time when the country has exceeded the creation of 300 000 jobs in the legislature, at a time when the country has reduced to the lowest level ever since there are statistics on poverty in Portugal, this opposition that, with the increase of family allowances, with the increase of the national minimum wage, with the increase of pensions, has lost the discourse, has lost the north, does not know how to oppose and comes here again, with this pastist speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u279	It's always the same bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u280	... with this speech without a future, and not even of the present if you want to deal with it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is the country, despite what the opposition is saying, which has reduced to the lowest level of our democratic period, of the years in which we have statistics, poverty, which has created more than 300 000 jobs, which has more health professionals, which has a more inclusive public school, and which, yes, also has infrastructure in which you can trust, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD protests.]] After a heated debate, as is the case with this Parliament, let us return to serenity, to debate the infrastructures and to discuss the subject,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...and not to the alarm that CDS and PSD here wanted to discuss the theme of infrastructure. We have a critical infrastructure management system that has taken more than a decade, and if it is not well, you could have changed, but which, of course, by being technically evaluated by LNEC (National Laboratory of Civil Engineering), considered appropriate. This system continues to guide, structuring our priorities for intervention. The Portuguese must know that it was from there that we chose to do and that we did the works at the Albardão Bridge, at Reg goings, at the Belver Bridge, at the Abrantes Metal Bridge, at the Guadiana Bridge, at the IP3, at the April 25 Bridge, at the IC1, at EN361 and at EN362. These are some examples of important works for the safety of traffic, for the safety of the lives of the Portuguese—and, that is, not to mention the many railway bridges that are currently in operation, such as, for example, between Covilhã and Guarda. We also did our housework for two years, doing the projects that did not leave us. Ó Mr. Hélder Amaral, with the PETI PowerPoint (Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) and without any project in the drawer—or, to be more rigorous, with three or four projects in the drawer—, we did not do works on the railway in Portugal! It was necessary to make the projects that you didn't leave there. PETI, for work purposes, did not go beyond a strategic document that needed to be implemented. We had to do the 2020 Railway and we had to do the projects that were not in the infrastructures of Portugal. And it's a shame they hadn't done it for years. We did the housework, he said, and so today we can tell this Parliament that in 2018 doubles the investment of the infrastructure in Portugal and in particular doubles the railway investment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have more investment in road conservation and rail conservation in this legislation — more 22 % on the road and more 14 % on the railway. We have committed more than EUR 100 million of new investment in road conservation and have already launched more than EUR 120 million of conservation in our railway. And we made the investments we said we were doing. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not come here with lack of rigour and propaganda. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u281	Yeah, now they're gonna have to listen to the end! If you want to know where the 300 km of the railway works are, I say, because I don't come here with unsupported conversations. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They can scream, but they'll have to listen! Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests. You're gonna have to listen! You want to hear, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! They can scream, but they'll have to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u282	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Minister conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Do you want to hear it? I say where are the 300 km of the works of the railway: 94 km of works on the Minho Line; 48 km of works on the Beira Baixa Line; 36 km on the North Line, between Alfarelos and Pampilhosa Line; 14 km on the Douro Line; 4 km between Valadares and Gaia Line; 7 km between the Luso and Trezoi Line; and 100 km between Évora and the border. Keep your heads up! Here are the works of Ferrovia 2020, which are there throughout the country! They're going back to the country, they're going to see the works of the 2020 Railway! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They're going to see the works, they're on the ground! Here are the works of the 2020 Railway, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! It's true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And investment must continue to grow, because very significant works are being launched. Only the work between Évora and Elvas, only this one, is nearly 500 million euros of investment in the railway in Portugal. More than 20 % of investment next year in central administration and more than 34 % in my Ministry, Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure. And they must also have news about the airport—don't miss the delay! — you will soon have them, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. But I want to remember here the blackout of reprogramming. last Friday, it was "fill your chest" and they said it was just propaganda. And they also said it was only until Wednesday, that we didn't miss the delay. Today, « they put the rape in the bag » and did not want to discuss here the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 translates into concrete works to improve the lives of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, it is EUR 1 billion for Portuguese qualifications where they are most lacking: in adults and in vocational education. It is EUR 1300 million for territorial cohesion and EUR 5000 million for business investment. Concrete results: 20 000 jobs will be supported by this business investment, 80 business location areas will be supported by reprogramming and 60 more schools will be supported by reprogramming.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u284	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u285	And we bring here, yes, concrete results, concrete investment. We understand that the opposition is already only thinking about talking about the past, because it is not interested in discussing the present of Portugal. The present of Portugal is a more competitive country, it is a country with fewer inequalities, it is a country with less poverty. It is a country that is betting in its future strategically, also with investment in infrastructure, also with investment in rail. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-12.u286	We have reached the end of the appeal to Government No 23 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and thus of our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on an agenda set by the PSD Parliamentary Group on housing — urban lease, in which the following draft laws will be discussed in general: No 864 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the deduction of charges for the property of young people up to 30 years of age with lease contracts; No 1038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal system of income insurance; No 1039 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates a cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease; No 1040 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the lease guarantee fund; No 1041 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the exclusion of the taxation of the amounts of compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of taxable persons with low RABC; No 1042 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August for the redefinition of the terms of operation of the National Housing Commission; No 1043 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The sixth amendment is made to the New Urban Rent Scheme approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 for the improvement of the national lease and allocation of new social solutions; No 1044 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 156 / 2015 of 10 August for the allocation of a subsidy for the lease for numerous and single-parent families; No 1045 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal regime of urban lease for the purposes of qualification, education and training; and No 1046 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income. of point two, there are regular votes. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 34 minutes.]]
