ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We will start our agenda, which has one point, the general assessment of Law Proposals No 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. We're going to try to have a table direction as flexible as possible. To present the two bills on behalf of the Government, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government presents today, before the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, the fourth State Budget of the XIII Legislation. It is the fourth Budget and is presented in 4. the Legislative Session. Yes, sir. Members, one budget per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal has also turned the page of amending budgets. Portugal today has a very different economic, budgetary and financial situation from that which existed in 2015. Today we can say that Portugal is better; so also Portuguese are better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] throughout the Legislature, the country's wealth grew 16%. We produced more. Family income grew by 18%. We distributed more. The job has grown. There are more than 380 000 jobs, 80 % of which are permanent and with better wages. We work more and so we earn more. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese can believe today. The Portuguese today can rely on their country and on the possibility of building their future and that of their children without being forced to emigrate. The Portuguese today can dream of a future for Portugal. Governance involves making choices, choices between alternatives. And there are always alternatives. In April 2015 we presented the document entitled A decade for Portugal. We have presented our ideas, our vision for increasing the growth potential of the economy. It was this vision, reflected in the 21st Government Programme, that served as a driving line for the budgetary policy that we followed without hesitation or reluctance. The successive budgets— 2016, 2017 and 2018—have given shape to this policy, always made choices. We choose the recovery of income, the appreciation of the National Health Service, a fairer and more efficient labour market and a tax system that promotes job creation and investment in human capital. We choose a global education system, the appreciation of the Public Administration and its workers, the investment, the innovation and internationalization of Portuguese companies and the stabilization of the financial system. The budget proposal presented today to Parliament and to the Portuguese continues the process we started at the end of 2015. The 2019 Budget is historic. It is historic not only by the numbers it closes but because, for the first time in the history of our democracy, a government fulfilled what had been proposed to do at the beginning of the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He did it without hesitation and, I say, Mr. and Mrs. Members, without euphoria, without triumphalism or electoralism. It is historic because it is responsible and because it brings revenue and expenditure to a level close to balance. The deficit will be 0, 2 % of GDP in 2019 — 0, 2 %! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State budget which the Government delivered to this Assembly of the Republic last day 15 provides for the more balanced budget balance that is remembered: a deficit of 0, 2 % of GDP between revenue and expenditure. It's an estimate, it's true, but it's our estimate. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u3	This historically low deficit allows Portugal for the first time to have a budgetary position similar to the average of its European partners. Balanced public accounts give Portuguese security that the increase in incomes for the last three years is sustainable, that it will not go back, while freezing and tax increases, and that we can all continue to have confidence in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But will it be easy? Was it easy to get here? The Portuguese know they don't. It's a lot of work to be lucky! Luck isn't a coincidence, nor does it live by making things easier. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The latest data from the Instituto Nacional de Statística show the result of this work. It is 19 consecutive trimesters of economic growth. The country has grown in every trimester of this legislature and this is the first time this happens in this century. We are converging with the euro area and predicting that in 2019 GDP growth is 2, 2 %, supported by productive investment and increased exports, but also supported by increased private consumption, which reflects sustained recovery of family income. Yes, consumption is also part of the growth of economies and it is he who generates well-being in families. Yes, that is the purpose of growth and job creation: to generate income for the Portuguese to live better. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the hope of the Portuguese in your country is also measured by the job opportunities that the country provides. The previous legislation was strongly marked by historically high levels of unemployment. The former Government effectively and actively promoted the emigration of many Portuguese. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Today, we have fewer unemployed and more Portuguese employees. In 2019, by 2015, we will have more 380 000 jobs. The unemployment rate, which in 2015 was 12, 4 %, will be 6, 3 % in 2019. But these figures, which alone reveal the positive development of the labour market, combine with the reduction of precariousness, the increase in the value of wages per worker and the increase in productivity. Not only do we have less unemployment and more employment as we have better jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These numbers are not from the Government, they are from the Portuguese. They are an expression that characterizes the Portuguese economy and society today. The improvement of funding conditions is also not a work of chance. The financing of the Republic improves because the public debt ratio in GDP is reduced. Between 2016 and 2019, the public debt ratio should fall 12 percentage points to 118 %. The sustainability of public debt and the continued reduction of its weight in the wealth created causes all rating agencies today to place the debt of the Republic in terms of investment. along the Legislature, we reduced interest expenditure by 1400 million euros and this value is now invested in health, education, science and culture. This value is invested today in Portugal! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the strategic framework of the National Reform Programme, public investment options seek to overcome structural blockades and promote the sustainable development of the economy. Thus, we expect public investment to reach EUR 4800 million in 2019. For the third consecutive year, we recorded a growth rate of public investment above 10 %. Yes, public investment has grown throughout the legislature. In 2019, we will have an increase of more than 700 million euros in areas such as health, transport, education, science, culture and housing. This investment is of course structural, gives continuity to an ambitious programme of expansion of the country's productive capacity and strengthens the basis for sustainable economic growth. Important part of these projects translates into investment in the transport sector, in international railway corridors, into significant works for expansion of metropolitan lines in Lisbon and Porto, in the purchase of rolling stock for all public transport services, whether buses, metro, trains or boats, but also in the construction of new hospitals or in essential investments to continue the renewal of the school network. The justification of these investments can be found either in the long decades in which there was no investment in these areas or in the economic and social return expected of these projects. We're doing it here, too. Public investment must be responsible and therefore is planned and selective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in tax matters, this budget implements and consolidates the return on income to families and fiscal stability, but also encourages productive investment. I recall again a number that I have been repeating and that it is good that no one forgets: EUR 1000 million. In 2019, Portuguese will pay less EUR 1000 million in IRS than they would pay in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat: minus EUR 1 billion! It is EUR 1 billion that this government has returned to Portuguese families. It's a huge fiscal relief. [[P.S.'s applause.]] throughout the legislature we have adopted several measures that have made the IRS a more progressive and less demanding tax in the fiscal effort of families. A more progressive IRS means a fairer IRS. We replaced the family quotient, highly regressive, by the fixed deduction per dependent; we eliminated the overtax of IRS; we increased the number of steps of the IRS, making the tax more progressive, more fair; we updated the minimum existence, indexing it to the indexer of social support and extending it to the incomes of category B for the first time. along the Legislature, we have preferred the principle that the IRS should be a tax adjusted to the incomes of each individual. In the state budget proposal for 2019, the government opted to act selectively with measures that make the tax even more fair. As already announced, we have a measure dedicated to those who had to leave the country in search of opportunities, a measure that allows to exclude by tax 50 % of the earnings of the work taken by those who have already had a tax residency in Portugal but who have left the country for more than three years and who wish to return by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We well know that it is not just a tax incentive that alone determines the return to Portugal of those who have been forced to leave the country in search of a better life. This is only one of the measures of the Return Programme, the first of a set of measures that will encourage their return. Portugal is today a different country than it was 4 years ago. For the first time, budgetary consolidation is carried out in a framework of reintroduction of income to Portuguese families, with fiscal stability for businesses, with a fiscal policy that enhances the economic growth and competitiveness of our business fabric. Portugal is today a more attractive country for investment and for work and growth, with conditions for welcoming back who left. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Return Programme is a very clear message from the Government for all who have left. Portugal is different, Portugal is today a better country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're talking business now. Portuguese non-financial companies are better. In only 2 years, 2016 and 2017, the turnover increased by 12 % and the gross value-added value of these companies increased by 14 %. And companies are more productive. Labour productivity increased by 11% compared to 2012 and in these two years increased by 6%. Labour productivity increases in Portugal! But Portuguese companies are also financially more resistant than before the economic crisis. Financial autonomy is 13 % higher and solvency is 21 % stronger. We are thus better prepared for the future. The capitalisation effort undertaken since December 2015, when we have commissioned the Mission Unit for Capitalization, is bearing fruit. In 2017, Portuguese companies had the best performance in more than two decades. This government has contributed to these results with predictability and fiscal stability and this is an invaluable value for companies. This budget gives continuity to the fiscal stability that has marked the legislature. A consolidation and growth budget, which ensures the improvement of financing conditions, cannot be more business friendly, offering them an advantageous macroeconomic scenario, stable and investment promoter. The proposal we are discussing today — and allow me to highlight, by its importance and impact — the end of the obligation of the special payment on account (ECP) and of the minimum collection in the IRC (tax on the income of the public) simplified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures allow more EUR 100 million to be restored annually in the liquidity of thousands of enterprises and is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. at the same time, it allows companies to fulfil all their tax obligations with responsibility. This measure is intended to tax companies for their real profit and, therefore, it can also mean tax reduction for many of them. The CFP, as mentioned above, has been qualified by all companies — from the smallest to the largest — for the last 20 years as injustice. Well, in this legislature we have been progressively creating the conditions for what today is a reality: the exemption of the obligation to deliver the CFP to the companies that so claim. Once again, let's do what we promise! [[P.S.'s applause.]] For 2019, we also propose the extension of the maximum limit of retained and reinvested profits for the purposes of deducting the collection of IRC and therefore once again the IRC goes down to the companies that invest. We have created conditions for more investment in Portugal. This is also a Budget with a fiscal policy of strong support within the country. We do not want a divided country, we want a country that grows and develops in a harmonious and balanced way, a country that is socially and territorially cohesive. We have therefore requested legislative authorization to ensure a reduction in the IRC which can reach a zero rate, allowing companies to deduct up to 20 % of the entire wage mass of employment connected with the internal market. More employment, more investment, more territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget is therefore the reaffirmation of the fiscal policy that we started in 2016 and that we consistently continue throughout the entire legislature. A Friendly Budget of Families, because it continues to increase income also available via tax, and a Friendly Budget of Companies, because it gives them a context of sustained economic growth, improved financing conditions, fiscal stability and fiscal incentives for investment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Public Administration deserves the highest attention from the Government as a body responsible for its management. The improvement of the services provided to citizens is not possible without valuing the Public Administration and recognizing the fundamental role of its workers. Here too, we will come to one page: we have valued public employment, we refuse the speech that divides public officials and employees in the private sector. All are workers, all deserve the same respect. It is clear to everyone that the 2016 State Budget broke the way the Public Administration and its workers were treated. After blind cuts, after arbitrary freezes, the current government and the current parliamentary majority that supports it returned dignity to the contribution to the public cause. Reinforcement of income, modernisation of the vocational training system, recovery of working hours which returns time for reconciliation with personal life, renewal of career development prospects, which, in this legislation, resume its normality, are only some of the measures taken. The combination of these measures, which will all agree that it involves enormous budgetary effort, fulfils the commitments made and has even gone beyond the measures laid down in the Government Programme in various dimensions. The Portuguese know that we only promise what we can do. [[PSD laughter.]] We do not embark on vain promises, we do not promote the simulation of the return of an overtax, which then does not pass from an illusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 21st Government Programme, developed in harmony with the joint positions signed between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, puts priority on people, incomes, pensions and other social benefits, improving the quality of life of Portuguese people. The State Budget for 2019 has a special focus on promoting social cohesion, combating poverty. Only in this way can society evolve, assuming as a priority the guarantee of greater solidarity between generations and the construction of a sustainable path of greater equality. That is why, since January 2016, the automatic mechanism for regular pension updating has been restored. 2019 will be the third consecutive year with a general increase in pensions and the second in which this increase is higher than inflation for more than 85 % of pensioners. This is the great novelty of this Parliament, which is confirmed by this Budget: respect for all Portuguese is back and is back to stay! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Legislation has been marked by a strong investment in social protection and 2019 will see the greatest ever increase in the fight against inclusion. More than EUR 153 million is invested in combating poverty and exclusion, by strengthening social benefits for inclusion. But the fight against inequalities still motivates the strengthening of family allowance values for children between 4 and 6 years of age, but also the reference value of social income for insertion, which will return to the value it had in 2011 in 2019. This budget bets, and much, on education because this bet is essential for the future of Portugal and Portuguese. The State Budget for 2019 extends the freeness of school textbooks, with a return focus on reuse, at the same time increasing the appropriations for school social action. The quality of education is also strengthened, with a greater focus on reducing the number of students per class in situations in which this appears to be more pressing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, housing is a priority of the 21st Government. The State Budget for 2019 takes a decisive step towards meeting the objective of giving a response to families living in a situation of severe housing shortage. The goal is to eradicate angry housing situations in our country until 2024. To do so, 1 is released. the Right- Programme to Support Access to Housing, with an initial appropriation of EUR 40 million, which will grow over the coming years with non-refundable shares. Health is another clear priority of this government's budgetary policy. [[PSD protests.]] The National Health Service (SNS ) is a distinguishing mark of the public sector in Portugal and the expression of the success of public policies in democratic Portugal. We are absolutely committed to the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Budget therefore continues to increase investment in SNS, with a growth of 27 % in 2018 and 15 % in 2019. These are the highest values in recent years and we must all bear this in mind. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Thus, for the first time in the last decade, the construction processes of five new hospital units were initiated. As regards Madeira Central Hospital, the State... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u4	Mr. Minister can continue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u5	Thus, for the first time in the last decade, the construction processes of five new hospital units were initiated: Lisboa Oriental, Madeira, Seixal, Sintra and Évora. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] For the Hospital de Lisboa Oriental, the international public contest was launched at the end of last year, with regard to the Central Hospital of Madeira, the State will co-finance its construction and equipment,... [[PSD protests.]] ...in an effort of solidarity with the regional health service. As a priority it is, the SNS will have a historic boost in 2019 in its budget of 585 million euros compared to 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is EUR 1200 million throughout the legislature. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget is not an electoral budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] There can be no voter voter a budget that meets the Government's programme that has been approved in this House for three years. A budget which guarantees the financing of the measures it proposes cannot be elected. It cannot be an electoralist, a budget that gives continuity to which we started in 2016 : to credible economic and budgetary policy in Portugal, reaching the goals we proposed with the Portuguese. Mrs. Members, without sanctions, without corrections, without unconstitutionalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests and laughter.]] Without sanctions, without corrections, without unconstitutionalities, the State Budget for 2019 is an exercise made of choices. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] The most decisive choice underlying it is to pursue the path that we started with the 2016 Budget. A path that is already known, a path that has proved and has yielded results, a secure path and with certain indications that lead to the right direction. The economic and budgetary conditions will certainly allow multiple interpretations, but allow me to finish by affirming the government's determination in the construction of a more sustainable and inclusive Portugal. That's how we started this legislature, that's how we want and we're going to finish this legislature, reaching the goals, exceeding the goals. This allows Portugal to reach and overcome its ambitions. That's how we did it. That's the way, and that's the only way we'll do it. We do not know in any other way, because Portugal and the Portuguese deserve our respect, they deserve everyone's respect. I finish as I began my first intervention in this Chamber three years ago, helping me with Sophia and the most beautiful of her poems. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u6	at that time, we celebrated the'morning morning' we were waiting for. Today, we continue the'substance' of politics and time, which will lead us, as in April, to the future. By placing enormous demands on everything we do, we have no mandate to go back, with responsibility, without resorting to simple solutions—populism is indeed the son of simple solutions— always with the same determination, to return Portugal to the future and to the new generations. These are our choices. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u7	Mr Minister for Finance, 25 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The answers to the first Member of each Parliamentary board will be given individually, as agreed. So, first of all, we will have requests for clarification of seven ladies and gentlemen. Members of the various parliamentary areas and then we will have three rounds of requests for clarification by six Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask the Minister to schedule his answers well, 'financially'. To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u8	Mr President, Minister for Finance, may Mr Minister deny it, but this is a budget with a mark: the mark of electoralism. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u9	Electionism of the Government, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and also the PCP. Everyone to the cinnamon sometimes to the clear, sometimes to the table. They all think about their election profits in October 2019. They all forget the essential role that must have any strict, dignified and transparent budget: to be an instrument for building the future of Portugal and all Portuguese. But no! This is just a Budget of Electoralism, in company of limited responsibility. The word of order of this Budget is: delude! To deceive the Portuguese, as far as possible, because after October the illusions end and whoever comes closes the door. After October 2019, the bill of the illusions with which the geriatrics are based will arrive. [[PS protests.]] Everything on the best socialist strain. Everything like that happened in the 1999 Election Year Budget, with Antonio Guterres. Everything, and something else, as happened in the 2009 Budget, with José Socrates. The Socialist Party is a user and a worker in promising worlds and funds, on the eve of the elections, to then put Portugal in the bottom, in the hole, above all to make the Portuguese pay austerity. [[PSD applause.]] If, in the past, everything ended in tragedy in 2019, everything would end up in a farce, quoting your friend Karl Marx.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u10	His friendship with Marx was the missing anecdotal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u11	And we, the Social Democratic Party, do not want the Portuguese to fall back into the trappings of the socialist electoral budgets and in the myopic interests of their government partners. We therefore denounce that this budget is purely electorally negotiated. What about the future of the Portuguese? — we ask ourselves. That doesn't matter in this budget. Let it be clear: in these geriatric negotiations, Portuguese cannot be a bargain, a currency of exchange. We, the Social Democratic Party, are sure that the Portuguese have learned from the mistakes of the socialist governments of the past and will not fall into this box of undiscovered illusions that is the 2019 Budget. We are sure that the Portuguese do not accept this policy of « winning plate, spending plate », where the future is postponed. We are sure that the Portuguese abhor your adrabies... [[PS protests.]] ... around the real value of deficit, early pensions, fuel tax or, even, teacher career! Now say something there now! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Moreover, we are also sure that the Portuguese are surprised that this budget says little or nothing about the creation of employment that is slowing down, Mr Minister ( go, as you know! ) , the stimulus to savings, which is the basis of growth, and the support for businesses, which you have earned so much. Have you talked to the companies, Minister? It is that they say they have no support and we realize that they are not, because they are hated by the Left Block and by the PCP, but they are the place where Portugal's employment, wealth and prosperity are born. We are also sure that the Portuguese do not tolerate any more: degradation in public transport; the indignity of working conditions in courts and security forces; the indignities in education, Mr. Minister of Education, in particular in alleged inclusive education; the delay of months to receive old-age pension, Mr. Minister of Social Security; the increasing waiting lists in consultation and surgery in the National Health Service, because, after all, this is not a priority in this Budget (and may well be said by the Minister that this priority is not clear, since you like absolute synthetic superlatives, but a very clear priority is what we do not see in this State Budget for the National Health Service ); or the continued and modest increase in indirect taxes, which all pay in an unfair way. Dr. Centeno, we are sure that Portuguese and public services no longer tolerate the guillotine of their captivitys, which are the supreme and refined policy of illusions of this government. Mr. Minister, not this time! this time, this does not go there with the budgetary "paps and cakes" of the custom, because the Portuguese know how much they have cost them the illusory songs of the socialist cigarettes of the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u12	So to conclude, I ask you this question: with this election budget for 2019, will you again, as happened in the past, deceive and deceive the Portuguese, up to the legislative elections, betting immediately, in the present, and forgetting Portugal of the future? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u13	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u14	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I would like to begin by saying that, after the book published last week, we are talking about cinnamon, because cinnamon is very well portrayed in this book. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The negotiation that is taken seriously around this budget is made, Mr President, within the Assembly of the Republic, to which you belong. Perhaps a little more respect about these negotiations would not hurt him. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then I would like to tell you, Mr, that the word « illusion » does not rhyme with the word « compliance ». And what this government has done is comply with. We have met from the first budget to the last... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the trajectory of debt reduction and the trajectory of deficit reduction with which we had been committed at the beginning of the Legislature. He spoke of the State budgets for 1999 and 2009, but he failed to speak of the State budget for 1994. He also spoke about the State budget for 2020. But on the State Budget for 2019, I have heard very little, Mr, because this is what we are discussing today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A budget that reduces the debt, which bets on innovation, that bets on the inside and that bets on human resources is surely a budget that bets on the future, is surely a budget that bets on Portugal better for the next generations. There is no budget that can have the designation that you assign to it when we have a primary balance planned for the next year over 3 %. This is an enormous budget of responsibility for the future—and that is our commitment—and also our commitment to employment, because creating 380 000 jobs in a legislature is something that you certainly did not anticipate at first, and you have to go back in time to find a legislature like this with regard to employment, wages and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am talking about companies to remember two figures I mentioned in my initial speech. in this legislature, productivity is growing, yes! The figures released by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) last week show that in Portuguese companies productivity in 2016 and 2017 grew 6 % and is 12 % above that which existed in 2012. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u15	Yes! This is a job with better wages, because it is more productive. This was the challenge we have put to this Parliament and we are fulfilling. Finally, in companies, we — of course, the honourable Member has forgotten — from Community funds, EUR 4 billion for companies in this Parliament. These are the numbers we bring to companies, those are the numbers of our commitment. All that is entered in the State Budget for 2019 is entered in the Government Programme. We're doing it. That is what is expected of a government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u16	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u17	Mr President, Minister for Finance, we heard the PSD. The PSD brings to this debate, generally from the State budget, the discourse of « The devil comes there — part II ». The PSD is lost in the debate on this budget. In the same speech, the PSD says something and its opposite. It defends, on the one hand, that this budget is electoralist and expenditureist and that it should go further in reducing the deficit and says, on the other hand, that the budget should meet the more demands of rising expenditure and falling revenue, which would lead to aggravation of the deficit. The PSD has to make a clear choice: if the Budget is spending, then the PSD must say that measures for the return of income and the replacement of rights must fall from this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if for the PSD this Budget should meet further demands, then the PSD should say that taxes is that it intends to increase to accommodate the rise of expenditure and the fall in taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u18	It's not serious, nor responsible, being in the best of both worlds. The PSD calls for more seriousness and greater responsibility in the budgetary debate. This budget continues a government strategy that rescued the country from the excessive deficit procedure, which rescued the country from economic degradation, which rescued the country from the trend towards poverty and rescued the country from massive unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget follows three budgets that did not need corrections, which met their goals without plans B, without extraordinary measures and without hiding serious problems, such as the General Deposit Box and Banif, as did the previous Government in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Finance Minister, an economy develops not only when it grows but when, alongside growth, it can create jobs, reduce social inequalities and combat the country's strategic deficits, such as energy deficit and environmental deficit. Therefore, the policy of return of income and replacement of rights has brought confidence to our economy. The recovery of confidence has strengthened investment and investment has generated growth and employment. It was the confidence that allowed the government to reform the financial system against the will of the right that did not support the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. It was also the confidence that allowed the Government to reform the labour market. By the end of 2019, 380 000 net jobs will be created ; the average wage increased in 2017 ; collective bargaining has dropped ; work insecurity decreases ; minimum wages rise each year, against the will of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u20	Between 2011 and 2015, public services have suffered the greatest attack since 25 April, were 4 years of cuts and de-investment. Between 2011 and 2015, the National Health Service suffered a cut of EUR 1000 million. The National Health Service had fewer doctors, fewer nurses, less technicians and also increased moderate rates to reduce the demand for this service. [[PSD protests.]] Since 2016 the Government has strengthened the National Health Service, which today has more doctors, nurses, more diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and more assistants. [[PSD protests.]] the court of EUR 1000 million, made by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS, this government, in 3 years, has already restored EUR 700 million in the National Health Service. And the Budget for 2019 guarantees more than 500 million euros for the National Health Service, continuing the commitment to strengthen investment in health. In transport, it was 4 years of aggravation of public companies and public transport service obligations, where they cut personnel, cut and cut careers, cut maintenance, frozen investments in infrastructure and rolling stock and increased tariffs. All this done in the name of privatizations that have only been prevented because a new parliamentary majority has stopped this attack on public transport. It has been since 2016 that the Government has relaunched the investment in the transport sector. Just look at the works that are in progress on the railway and at the enlargement of the 4 /NP 18 and sub23 passes. But it is also enough to look at this budget, Mr Minister, to confirm the large measure, the revolutionary measure of the single pass at reduced prices that will transform the public transport culture and which is also a measure with a very positive impact on environmental sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is sufficient to look at the increase in compensatory compensation for transport undertakings and those which guarantee the public transport service to provide better service and to increase investment in rolling stock, increase investment in rail and expansion of the metropolitan networks of Lisbon and Porto. I shall end with a question, Minister : do you confirm that this budget is again bringing about a growth in public investment, particularly in public school, in the National Health Service and in transport? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u21	In reply, Mr Minister for Finance has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u22	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, economic growth is made through predictability, through structural reforms that increase the country's growth potential, through increased internal and external confidence in the Portuguese economy and society. When we arrived here, we had two sanctions cases raised by the European Commission for failure to meet previous government targets, we had levels of confidence for all economic actors — consumers and businesses — very low and sharp down throughout 2015. When we arrived here, we had a financial system in which three quarters of the assets were in institutions that were either in resolution or on the edge of it, subcapitalized or with very serious problems in its shareholder structure. That is, when we arrived here, the financial system did not play the very important role it has in an economy such as the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u23	And now do it! Is that what you're talking about? Giving credit to consumption! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u24	When we arrived here, the internal search was the devil's transfiguration. Internal demand and private consumption represented the evil of the entire Portuguese economy. All this has changed! All this changed throughout 2016, surely with the success we had in the process of recapitalizing the General Deposit Box and with the success we had with the approval, implementation and execution of the 2016 and 2017 Budgets. When you arrived in 2017, everything changed! When we arrived in 2017, we had the highest economic growth of this century, when we arrived in 2017, employment grows robustly and all economic sectors in Portugal grow. I would also like to say — to answer the question that you put to me — that we have designed and have been implementing public investment projects throughout the legislature, accompanying the implementation of Portugal 2020, which have been increasing public investment throughout the legislature. During the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, public investment will grow, or has already grown, more than 10 %. This recovery process is the reason why today we have investment in the SNS growing above 20 % and investment in the already materialized railway and, hopefully, in 2019 with a very strong growth in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u25	In projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u26	It is this trajectory for public investment that we designed at the beginning of the Legislature. We will certainly meet, we will continue to achieve our goals because only then will the country have credibility, because that is the only way the country will have a future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u27	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u28	Mr President, Minister of Finance, in the years preceding this legislation, pensioners did not know the future of their pension ; workers had no other perspective but the increases of the IRS and the false promises of return of the over-tax, well in time of the elections; the precariouss did not see any sign of protection; thousands of unemployed, as well as children and the poorest elderly, were unable to count on the minimum that was guaranteed to them by social support. Insecurity! The insecurity was the brand that the PSD and CDS left in so many people in Portugal, an insecurity always imposed on the basis of fear, the fear of a worse future, the fear that there was no alternative. Three years back, what does this right have to present to the country? What program do you defend for this Budget? What alternative do you have today to present to those who have always said that there is no alternative to austerity? No one knows, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing we know: PSD and CDS Members can no longer count on fear to help them. The speech of the fear, the speech of the pope, the discourse of the Devil died, failed and there is no fear that, at this moment, support the project on the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Over the past three years, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, in the last three budgets to which this Budget for 2019 joins, who live in Portugal has seen and felt advances that so far were given as impossible. People live more safely because there is a social tariff that guarantees them access to energy; they live more safely because they know that they will pay less for transport; they live more safely because they saw their pension increase throughout the legislature; they live more safely because there were finally those who looked at the precarious in public and in private,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u30	... there were those who cared about their social protection and there were those who cared about their linkage. People live with greater security by recovering social support that was their right and that they needed so much. Those who earn the national minimum wage live more safely because in January 2019 they will gain at least 20 % of what they earned in 2015. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Minister, the recovery of the economy has been given because we give guarantees to people. The right is convinced, and has already said several times, that the economy only grows when wages and labour rights are sacrificed, when privatized and precarious and, therefore, it is condemned to sacrifice wages and labour rights, it is condemned to precaution and privatize. But these years have proved that the redistribution of income is not only socially fair, the distribution of income is a powerful economic policy tool that protects growth and guarantees more employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u32	But, Minister, if we are able to do and defend our accounts for the good that has been done in this country, we are also sure that it could have been more and more better. in these three years, the government presented and defended before Parliament the spending limits it considered relevant to the targets of the deficit it had committed to. This expenditure has always been authorised by Parliament. Nevertheless, Mr President, he insists on returning to Parliament accounts showing that some of these authorized funds have been spent without any justification, since the deficit targets have been met and even exceeded these years. This responsibility rests solely with the Government and it is up to you in particular as Minister of Finance. It is up to the Minister of Finance to explain why he continues to postpone investments which are so important to the country and why he continues to postpone expenditure which is essential for public services, which Parliament has validated and envisaged in the last State budget. I know that the Minister places all his cards on the zero deficit policy and, of course, on his own external credibility. But when the next crisis comes, and we both know that it will come,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u33	The Devil? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u34	Have you ever heard of it? Oh, my God! Have you ever heard of crises? Oh, my God! Is that something new? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u35	I'm asking the ladies. Members to allow Mrs Mariana Mortágua to continue with her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u36	Looks like they're phantoms out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u37	Mr Minister, when the next crisis arrives, what will make the difference and what will protect the country is not whether the deficit is 0, 1 %, is 0, 15 % or 0, 25 % in a context of negative interest in the short term. What will make the difference is whether the country has been able to invest in preparing its social state. What will make the difference is whether we have a social state capable, efficient, capitalized, equipped and modern, capable of protecting people from what is coming. One of the central elements of this social state is its workers, most of them with very low wages: there are 200 000 public service workers with wages less than €835 per month and which have been frozen for a decade. But Mr. Minister is secret to the proposed increase in public service. Now, the Budget is not a secret envelope, it is a social policy instrument that must be discussed in all its details and therefore I ask you very specifically: how much and when will public service workers receive their salary increase? The Government has an obligation to clarify the budget proposal and not to play in hiding, much less with Parliament. Finally, Mr Minister, the Bloc has not yet received the reply on an important warning we made to the Government. As designed by the Government, the extension of the extraordinary contribution to the renewable sector companies is at risk of being a flop. Even though the EESC ( Extraordinary Energy Contribution ) of renewables does not go beyond EUR 30 million, according to the forecast of the State budget report. But it happens that the government has forgotten to withdraw the exemption from the law for power stations awarded by invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u38	Really? Oh, my God! ...Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u39	thus, the revenue charged to renewable production risks being insignificant — a flop! Last year, we lost the opportunity to introduce a courageous measure to contain the incomes of the energy sector and lower the electricity bill in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u40	This has been the case since the beginning of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u41	This year, in the face of a much more modest proposal from the Government than we stand for last year, the question I put to you is whether this measure will even produce some result in 2019. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u42	In reply, Mr Minister for Finance has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u43	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, economic growth is a long-term phenomenon. One possible analogy, in athletic terms, is that economic growth is a marathon. And Portugal is even very good running marathons! In our history, we have several marathon champions. We just have to apply exactly the same principles of distribution to the growth process, because running a marathon to accelerate does not usually lead to good results. I fully agree with you and with your reading on the conditions for the recovery of the Portuguese economy, conditions that allowed companies in Portugal today to have a higher volume of production. Only in 2016 and 2017, there was a 12 % growth. It is this ability to produce, it is this ability to create that then allows to make distribution. And the truth is that this distribution, which is made through the State budget, which is an absolutely essential economic policy instrument, has been able to ensure that in the four years of this legislation we had no cut. There was no cut in any sector of activity, in no budget program, in this legislature. This is how we defined the allocation of funds to different areas and, as you know, we had very clear priorities. From now on in health, with the budgetary health programme growing EUR 1200 million in the legislature. This cancels the whole cut — yes, cut! — which was registered throughout the previous Parliament. The credibility we are debating here is certainly the credibility of the country. It is the most important reversal throughout this legislature, because in 2016, as I recently reminded Mr. João Paulo Correia, the country did not have that credibility. Without credibility we have no freedom to make choices and the choices we have made, throughout this legislature, are only possible because we have gained this credibility. If and when we do not have it, I assure you, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we will also lose the ability to make these choices. One of the choices we made was that of recovering the income of the employees of the Public Administration. In 2019, expenditure on staff in the Public Administration will increase EUR 800 million. It is EUR 800 million that are mainly associated with the process of defrosting careers, progressions and promotions, but it is EUR 800 million that covers many other decisions we have made — in health, transport, education — of valuing careers, of all careers of the Public Administration. This process has been conducted in negotiations with the unions, in parliamentary negotiations, and it is precisely in this framework that we will take all decisions to the end. We will respect all these negotiating processes but I assure you that in this State budget there are EUR 800 million for increased staff, salaries and salaries of the Public Administration in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u44	In order to make requests for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Assunção Cristos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u45	Mr President, before we go to budget questions, of the missed opportunity of a budget that gives with one hand what takes away with the other,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ...there's a previous note that has to be made. This year, as was the case in 2016, Prime Minister repeats the unpublished fact of not giving the face in presenting and defending his State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u46	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u47	I criticized him hard at the time and criticised him today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u49	It is contempt for Parliament, it is a sign of political cowardice, it is proof that it is not up to its position. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u50	A Prime Minister who misses the most important debate of the entire parliamentary year is a Prime Minister who fails at the centre of his action. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If you are not able to present and discuss the State budget, then you are not up to Prime Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] A Prime Minister who does not consider it important to explain his budget to all Portuguese Members of Parliament, who is the centre of representative democracy, is a Prime Minister who does not respect our political system. [[PS protests.]] A Prime Minister who steals from the debate is a weak Prime Minister, who can live from the skill and the scheme, but will always be weak in height. A Prime Minister who hides behind his Minister for Finance confirms a standard: he does not face when something goes wrong. [[PS protests.]] But what's going to go wrong right now, Prime Minister? Will this be a deceptive budget? Oh, my God! A budget that frustrates expectations created with so many groups, from teachers to police, from nurses to pensioners? Oh, my God! Is the budget of the rule « 60 years old/ 40 years of discounts», which no one can explain after all? Oh, my God! Is this what Mr. Prime Minister wants to answer? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Or will it be to the enormous tax burden hidden in this Budget, which gives with one hand and pulls with the other, deceiving all Portuguese, loaded with indirect taxes? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Or are the episodes successively uncomfortable, with Tanks to the head, passing through the PS officer who, after all, the result of parliamentary pressure, is not going to the energy regulator anymore? Oh, my God! [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Don't you want Mr. Prime Minister to ask you, after all, whether or not he knew about the cover of Tanks? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Two years ago, Mr. Prime Minister hid himself to avoid uncomfortable questions about the circumstances of the then administration of the General Deposit Box. We all remember this unfortunate episode. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Today, I can try a set of explanations, but they will all hit on the same point: the State Budget is the document produced by the government and approved in this Parliament that has the greatest influence on our collective life. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u51	And still, don't talk about him!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u52	It is wrong for you, Mr Prime Minister, to be in such a disparate and arrogant attitude that you think everything can, that you think it is so comfortable in your place that you are not worthy of subjecting yourself to debate, criticism and scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u54	I'm ashamed of you! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u55	I feel the same way every time you talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u56	You have already heard me say that this government has only one Prime Minister and one Minister of Finance, all the other members are State Secretaries. It looks like you've also been without Prime Minister now! Mr Prime Minister said, a few weeks ago, that the budget proposals are not from the Ministers, they are from the Government, showing well that, for you, ministers little or nothing are worth, which are disposable after they are actively participating in the negotiations of the Budget, without knowing that they will no longer execute it. This was the case with Adalberto Fernandes, Manuel Caldeira Cabral and Luís Filipe de Castro Mendes. [[PS protests.]] Now, he preferred to pass the chair to his only minister, the Minister of Finance, who today has the clothes of Prime Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u57	But, as happened two years ago, the position of the CDS, our attitude, my attitude, does not let itself be conditioned by yours, Prime Minister. If you don't want to argue with me, if you feel very uncomfortable with my questions,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u58	...it's all wrong with you. If you do not agree with the questions I ask you about how you will approve the CDS proposals and if that bothers you very much, because you like to be now Prime Minister, now Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, on my part, there is only the discomfort of the shame of others. I will therefore ask the Minister for Finance the same questions as those concerning the budget which he would put to you, Prime Minister. Others will certainly have their own space. Mr Finance Minister, this budget is once again a missed opportunity for us. Portugal has the worst growth in Europe and continues to have very low investment levels. Moreover, I remember the plan that led him to the government, where he indicated growths above 3%, which he never did — but never! — have come true in this Parliament. We still have to pedal more than others. The left-wing budget fails at this point. On the one hand, the Government has not made much public investments and, on the other hand, does not guarantee with prompt and effective availability of the means for private investment, either in vocational training—and I know well, Mr Minister, of the shameful skill it has done last year—,... [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] ... whether in transport, whether in agriculture, where the investment support programme is completely stopped and the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has a cut of 8 %! [[PS protests.]] On the other hand, the government tightens the tax cap with the gas and petrol tax to penalise families and businesses, with autonomous taxes to be charged to small and medium-sized enterprises, with the second highest IRC in Europe. Mr. Minister, I go all over the country, I talk to all sectors and hear them. The opinion is unanimous: this budget forgets economic growth, disregards companies as central actors relevant to economic growth and job creation, the good jobs we all want. This Budget, once again, deceives everything and all for the fourth consecutive year! Every year there is news in the line of austerity. A covert austerity, as hidden, is the government, which implores the end of austerity and charges indirect taxes. [[Protests of PS Members.]] In 2018, it will beat the record of the tax burden and in 2019 to keep the standard this year, prepare to hit another record. [[PS protests.]] Headquartered austerity, as headquartered is the action of the government, when it then approves to then captivate, when it makes a party in the Budget and then closes in the drawer during execution. For some, Mr Minister, your action will be skillful, for us, it is simply obscure, misleading and cowardly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u60	Austerity hidden in the systematic degradation of public services, from health to education, from transport to safety. This Budget gives with one hand and pulls with the other. All the new taxes created in the previous budgets remain, including those charged in several of them, such as gas oil, and even more fees are added. In the field of public services, it is urgent to ask: will or will there be no unaccustomed and readily available money for the Hospital de São João, in Porto? What about Gaia's hospital? What about the Guard? What about the Queen's Caldas? And for all those, from north to south, from the coast to the interior of the country, who are full—very full! — to hear promises without being fulfilled? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u61	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u62	Will there be or will there be no money for the family health units ( USF ), promised and missing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u64	Will there be or will there be no investments in degraded schools, where many students have classes in containers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u66	Whether or not there is money for railway and infrastructure investments more than planned and announced, we are all aware that, for example, in the railway, until now, only 5 % — I repeat, 5 %! — planned investment? Oh, my God! Will there be money or will there be no money to unlock the execution of funds in agriculture and in the forest? Will or will not there be total deactivation — I repeat, total! — money for vocational training? Will there be any money to pay the thousands of extraordinary hours in debt to health professionals? Oh, my God! And to hire school assistants? Will there be any money to pay the galloping health debt? Oh, my God! Will you or will there not be agreement with the teachers? What about the specialist nurses? And with the cops, clearly desperate, in the face of the unfulfilled promises? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Will there be any money to hire inspectors for criminal investigation, essential to combat corruption? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u68	Are you going to be ready to sign the programme contracts with the national artistic structures, waiting a year and a half ago? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, these questions are only the confrontation with your Government's promises and I hope that during this debate you can answer clearly. To these I add the great "elephant" in the Chamber : please explain to us, if possible, rule 60 / 40 for early pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u70	Finally, Mr Minister, as always and in all budgets, the CDS presents an alternative view to that given to us by the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u71	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u72	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. in this alternative view, I ask you three central questions: is it available, or is it not, for a true status of tax benefit to the interior, essential for territorial cohesion? Oh, my God! Is it available, or not, for a real package for demography and birth, which is the most structural problem in the country? Oh, my God! Is it available for a real economic growth programme that actually places us in other sustainability standards? Oh, my God! Finally, Mr Minister, a year ago, the CDS presented 91 proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u74	This way! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u75	They were all plunged by the Socialist Party, certainly articulated with Mr. Minister of Finance. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u77	My question is whether this year will also give global lead orders. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u78	In reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u79	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, the State Budget for 2019 is a balanced, responsible, rigorous and sound budget. It is certainly not the electoral script with which the honourable Member has just presented this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the honourable Member wanted to finance this electoralist script, which would certainly be the CDS-PP budget, she would have to tell us if external debt increased, if taxes increased. It is a responsibility that remains with you...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u80	It's your promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u81	... and with the 91 proposals which cost EUR 1400 million and which were therefore not adopted in the State budget for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u82	Promise but don't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u83	More than that is the deep adjective with which the honourable Member would, of course, present all her interventions in this House, and this was not enough, with large adjectives, large quantities. [[Earrings from the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] The budgetary significance of these adjectives cannot be fully understood, but there they exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But as adjectives are not made budgetary policy, Member of Parliament, I would like to remind you of the following: we have a huge tax relief, throughout the Parliament, in the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u84	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u85	It is less EUR 1000 million, I repeat, less EUR 1000 million, in comparative terms, if we apply the rules prevailing in 2015 to 2019 incomes. It's a huge fiscal relief! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u86	You pay for gas and gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u87	We now have more than 200 million euros of investment in the SNS, based in the DGO ( Directorate-General for Budget) and being implemented. in these 200 million euros account for 16 million from Gaia hospital, 10 million from Hospital de São João, in Porto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u88	Only 10 million? Oh, my God! So it wasn't 20 million? Oh, my God! He's gone down to half!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u89	... and many, many other tens of millions of euros of many investments currently under way in the SNS. With regard to growth, Mrs Deputies certainly did not review the figures because nowadays — unlike the time we met here in 2017, when most of the 2017 growth estimates were 1, 2 % — compared to the 2017 growth, the last number disclosed by the INE in a huge review was 2, 8 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u90	Its number was 3, 2 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u91	And I will not be afraid that when we meet here in one year, the number of growth for 2017 is very close, I repeat, very close to that which corresponds to the information that the honourable Member brings from our Government Programme, which is 3, 1 %. Madam Member, the State budget is a liability exercise, a debt reduction exercise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u92	You couldn't! You failed to grow!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u93	... an exercise of budgetary consolidation and expenditure growth in all budgetary programmes. It is this growth of expenditure that sustains the policies that we have presented, that increase of expenditure that has materialized, year after year, in all budgetary executions. There were no cuts as there will be no accelerated executions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u94	There was an increase in taxes! The biggest tax burden ever!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u95	...that they may, unlike the past, put the country at risk, because we have no mandate to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u96	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance : It has already been noted that this proposal for State Budget is not a proposal for cuts in rights and incomes, aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, such as those submitted by previous governments, including the former PSD/CDS government, but it is also not a proposal for Budget that corresponds entirely to the wishes of the workers and the people or that it responds to the structural problems of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u99	Despite incorporating positive measures resulting from the struggle of workers, from the action and initiative of the CFP, and which we naturally value, this is a proposal for Budget marked by the options of the PS Government, which interfered with and limit progress and which continue to place as a wrong priority the fulfilment of the European Union's criteria and impositions, secondaryizing and leaving unanswered the main national problems. None of this is new. We know from the beginning of this political solution that the PS options limit what is possible to achieve and we also know that it does not depend only on the will of the CFP to realize the alternative policy that workers, the people and the country need. By not ignoring any of the limitations of the current correlation of forces, we will continue, however, determined not to waste any opportunity to achieve new progress and positive measures for workers and the people, but we do not fail to stress that the central issue, which continues to be put, is that of the struggle for an alternative policy that truly corresponds to the interests of the workers and the people and that responds to the structural problems of the country. Mr Minister, this is, as I have already said, the fourth budget of this Parliament. The evolution of the economic and social situation in recent years confirms that the return of rights and incomes has led to economic growth, reduction of unemployment and poverty, improvement of living conditions, outlook for the future for many who have already lost it. I brought even, contrary to what PSD and CDS say, what was most important for thousands of small and medium-sized companies: customers! The recovery of purchasing power was the most positive measure that could have been taken for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, as much as the PSD and CDS want to cancel that. [[PCP applause.]] This development of the national reality, Mr Minister, demonstrates the falsity of the speech of previous governments, which justified the attack on the rights of workers and the people, saying that this was the price to be paid to solve the problems of the country; it proves that the rights of workers are not a problem or an obstacle, they are, indeed, an indispensable element for the development of the country; and proves that the solution of national problems is in the valuing of the rights of workers and the people and that this is the way to be pursued and deepened. I therefore ask you, Minister : in view of this reality, how does the Government justify that the deficit targets and other European Union taxes continue to be placed in front of workers' rights and the response to the country's problems? Oh, my God! How does the Government justify that positive measures for workers and the people are limited and conditional but at the same time there seems to be no stop to spending public money with the private bank, with PPPs (public-private partnerships), with the unbearable burden of debt interest and other benefits and privileges of the large economic groups? Oh, my God! For the country to develop, Mr Minister, these options need to be reversed. Mr Minister, the CFP naturally appreciates the fact that the proposal for a State Budget for 2019 consolidates and develops measures for the replacement of rights and incomes, such as the progress achieved in recent years, but is not satisfied with what is proposed. We want, in the specialty, to go beyond the limitations of some of the positive measures and to go further in response to problems that have not yet been taken into account in the advances contained in the proposal, which, moreover, are the result of the decisive fight and intervention of the CFP, such as that of pensions, with a new extraordinary increase in 2019 and, this time, entirely, from January onwards, as we defended. For the third consecutive year, pensioners will have, in their pensions, minimum increases of €10 and €6 — an advance with the PCP brand! There is also an advance in the freeness of school textbooks in the 12 years of compulsory education. For years, the CFP fought for this measure and its universality, so that it would walk in the direction of equality in access to education for all children and young people attending public school and in 2019 this goal will be achieved — an advance, too, with the mark of the CFP! There is also progress in strengthening the family allowance for children between the ages of 3 and 6 years, in extinction of the special payment as a minimum collection scheme, in the possibility of reducing costs with electricity and natural gas, in valuing long-term careers, in access to and support for culture, in extraordinary support for long-term unemployed, in reducing the value of propines, in reducing the costs of public transport, through the social pass. The discussion on the speciality must be carried out in order to overcome the limitations of some of these positive measures, as, moreover, it has already been clearly identified in relation to the possibility of reducing energy costs; it must also be done in order to prevent the positive sense with which these measures were discussed from now on being turned into backward, a danger which, moreover, was demonstrated in the example of long-contributory careers. This is the last question I would like to ask you: what is the Government's willingness to do this work in the field of expertise in order to expand the positive measures contained in the budget proposal? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u100	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u101	Mr. President, Mr. João Oliveira, the goals of the deficit are certainly as important as all the other goals we have in the State Budget, as all the goals we set for the contracts in the Public Administration, for the measures that fit and inform our fiscal policy, for the investment measures in the National Health Service, education, culture and science. All these goals are defined in the framework of a balance in the State budget. What we have done throughout this Parliament has allowed a huge reduction in the costs of financing the Portuguese, not only of the State, but of businesses and families. This is the biggest reduction between all the countries of Europe in this period of time. Only within the framework of the State is less than EUR 1400 million in interest expenditure. It was the achievement of the targets, but it was not only the achievement of the deficit targets, it was the achievement of the objectives we set in the Budget that brought credibility to the budget policy in Portugal and it was this credibility that made the budgetary process in Portugal more sustainable, our debt more sustainable and thus improving the financing conditions. This reduction in interest expenditure is reflected in the State budget in more investment in health and in more investment in education. What we have established, year after year, translates into a phrase that we have used several times: we cannot "take greater steps than the leg". We cannot put at risk what we have already achieved and what we have already built for the future. In fact, as I said in my initial speech, it is about building a more just, more cohesive and more integrated society. But in order to achieve this, we must do so responsibly, with this balance which obviously results from the discussions we have, of the debate we have for the preparation of the State budget. It is clear that, both in this and in all other State budgets, so far, it is expected that the debate in the specialty is very rich, very alive. What the Government wants, what the Minister of Finance certainly wants, is that this debate is balanced, that it does not question this trajectory, because, if we question it, Mr. João Oliveira, we will make all the other achievements that we have already achieved can also be called into question. This is certainly something that we do not want, whether in pensions or in any area of the State budget. Speciality is a debate period. Let us hope—and we are sure that this will happen—that this debate will be guided by the sense of responsibility that has passed through everything, but even throughout the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u102	You have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, allow me to comment on the unrespecting way in which Mr Adam Silva referred to the joint positions that the PS held with the parties on his left and, in particular, with the Greens Ecological Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u104	I would like to tell you two things: these negotiations, or joint positions, deserve respect because they were built to think about the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you know something else, Mr. Adam Silva? That I know — and here is Mr Prime Minister, who can confirm it — there was neither during these negotiations nor after any party leader to the left of the PS who has arrived at the foot of Mr Prime Minister, who has made an absolutely irrevocable beer and who has required Mr Prime Minister to amend the Organic Law of the Government to create the post of Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u105	Well remembered! [[Rises and applause from the PS and from members of the BE and PCP.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u106	So, more respect, Mr. Deputies! Mr Minister for Finance, we agree with you that this budget actually follows the essential lines of the last three budgets of this Parliament, i.e. this budget makes an effort to at least put things on the ground, after the disruption that the right-hand passage through the country's destinations has ended up causing, in particular, the rights and income of families, but also the quality of public services. But Mr Minister, there is a fact that you have to be present in this discussion: just like the last three budgets, this budget cannot be compared with those of the PSD and the CDS for a very simple reason. It is in this Budget that we discussed the value of returns, if it is too much or if it is little; in the PSD and CDS budgets, what was discussed was the size of cuts, if they were many or if they were few, if they were fair or if they were unfair.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u107	Good, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u108	Therefore, this cannot be the term of comparison. The comparison must be made between what this Budget proposes and what is socially fair, between what this Budget proposes and what people and families are entitled to. Mr Minister, this is the last budget of this Parliament, the general feeling which you know is that, after all, the government has done minimal services to the level of social justice and development of the country, and in some respects it has not done the minimum services. Accounts are easy to do: if the economy is having a good performance, it is fair that good performance has positive effects on people's lives, exactly in the same proportion. And when we talk about positive reflections, we talk not only about people's rights and incomes but also about the quality of public services, because if they do not value wages and if they do not improve public services, when the economy is having a good performance, then when will it be time to return income and wages and strengthen the quality of public services? Oh, my God! When will it be time to make decisions that meet people's fair and legitimate aspirations unless the economy gives positive signs? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, for the Greens, what is expected, as regards the increase in wages of employees of the Public Administration, appears to be insufficient at all levels and in all dimensions. It is insufficient when we compare our country's average wages with those of other European countries, it is unfair when we compare the value of this increase with that of the funds that are planned to finance the bank — I remember that it is more than EUR 850 million just to recapitalize the New Bank — and it is absolutely unfair when compared with the amounts that are planned for the cost of public-private partnerships, which, I remember, amount to EUR 1692 million. Mr Minister, I do not ask you whether you think this is fair or unfair, but I ask you, from now on, if you think that this increase in the salaries of the employees of the Public Administration is in line with the performance of our economy. And your answer, Minister, will have to bear in mind two elements: the return of rights and income to families has been decisive for the performance of the economy and the wages of employees of the Public Administration are frozen 10 years ago. So, Minister, my question is whether you think this increase in wages will follow the growth of the economy. In addition, Mr Minister, public services require a strong and high-quality investment, until, as we know, the former Government has left them in an absolutely fragile situation at all levels and in all sectors. in this regard, the Greens stress the need to look at public transport, particularly for rail, with eyes to see. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know what the Government is opening up and available for discussion in the field of expertise to receive some of the Green proposals, particularly regarding the acquisition of rolling stock and also the strengthening of workers, both in the CP ( Portugal trains, EPE ) and in the EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA ). Of course, the Greens will not give up and will insist on these and other proposals, particularly on the need to continue to strengthen the means of conservation of nature and also to create incentives for forest producers who want to invest in production of indigenous species. Finally, Mr Minister for Finance, we recognize that this State budget carries positive elements, particularly with regard to increases in retirement pensions, the freeness of school textbooks and the reduction of costs in access to public transport. But, Mr Minister, if it were not the way the Government looks at external taxes, particularly the budgetary treaty and the deficit, we have no doubt that 'another branch would sing'. The poem could even be the same but, of course, "another branch would sing" and people and our natural resources would be more important in this Budget. If it were not the way the government looks at public-private partnerships and aid to the bank, Mr Minister, the poem could be the same but certainly « another branch would sing». The question I am asking you, Minister, is precisely whether you follow this reading, that if it were not the Government's strategic options for the budget treaty, deficit, public-private partnerships and bank aid, this budget could think more about people and natural resources. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u109	In reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u110	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the appreciation of the joint positions is obviously an act of democracy and certainly an act of respect for this House. As you know, on the Government's side, this has always been the way we have dealt with them, it has always been in this spirit of dialogue and negotiation that we have dealt with all the budgets and all the legislative decisions taken together. I note some nostalgia in the speech of the honourable Member, but I would like to tell you that, finally, being of the nature of life, there is certainly more life beyond the State Budget for 2019. We will not make the final decisions of our lives over these weeks until the end of November.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u111	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u112	So naturally, with a lot of responsibility, as we have done so far, we will continue to frame returns and progress, rather than regressions and cuts, as you said, and well. Expenditure on social benefits is increasing in this legislature over EUR 3000 million and spending in the National Health Service is rising EUR 1200 million. Only staff spending in the National Health Service grows, in the legislature, more than 20%, which means that at present we devote more than 700 million euros to human resources in such an important area, where they are as crucial as that of health. Decisions on human resources, particularly civil servants, have a major impact on the 2019 Budget. The EUR 800 million I mentioned recently represent an increase of 3, 7 % in staff expenditure. Only the processes of progressions and promotions have an impact on the average public administration salary of €68, which is a very significant progression. It is in this context that the recovery of rights and mechanisms for the recovery of public administration should be the subject of all discussions and debates around these matters. Transport issues are essential, as you know. at this time, there are competitive processes for the acquisition of buses in the Port of Lisbon and in several cities of the country, and ships in Transtejo and Soflusa ; we have recently launched the largest competition for the acquisition of rolling stock for the regional network of CP, a competition over 160 million euros ; we have the largest investment of the last 100 years on the railway, which will devote to it in the next five years more than 2000 million euros ; and in 2018 the budget of the CP, which is running, grows 14 % and that of the IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal ) increases by 10 %. So this has been the trajectory and this has been the evolution. What I can assure you is that, in implementing the 2019 Budget, these dynamics and this evolution will not be questioned, rather, in some of these dimensions will, yes, accelerate. I can assure you that this will certainly be the case with the investment on the railway. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u113	To conclude this first round of requests for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u114	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Government publicly on the important and fundamental decision to eliminate the use of disposable plastics and of single use in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u116	This measure was long awaited, now published in the Journal of the Republic, because it immediately promotes the reduction of the production of these wastes, but also because it has a relevant pedagogical role with all public servants and their families, leading to such a necessary change in consciousness. It is indeed with great satisfaction that we see the Government converge with the NAP, accept and implement some of the measures we have brought to debate in this legislature. We now hope that the Government and the Socialist Party will continue this healthy fight against plastic, accompanying another proposal from the NAP: the extension of the end of the use of disposable plastic dishes to the restoration sector. In the face of the extreme ecological crisis we are living in, Mr Minister, continuing to use plastic solely used in restoration is not only profoundly irresponsible as a huge futility. Speaking on environmental impacts, Mr Minister, in an area where the government has not been exactly well, I would like to address some of the measures of the proposed Energy Budget, asking for a comment. Last year, on a proposal from the NAP, we approved in the State budget the end of the exemption of oil tax on products such as coal that is burned for electricity production at the thermal power plants, the largest emissions of pollutant gases in the country. Also last year, there has already been a progressive carbon rate for these producer centres, corresponding to the addition of the planned CO2 emissions. However, Mr Minister, in this budget proposal, the price is clearly low — €5 / tCO2 — as we can see from Article 224. o. But worse than being clearly low is the fact that the price of carbon has suffered a reduction compared to the current value of 2018, which is €6, €25/ tCO2. This proposed value will represent a very small penalty in view of the cost of emission allowances that companies have to pay and its reduction will give a wrong signal, in fact, contrary to the reality of European countries. The value of carbon emissions licences in Europe has been increasing, Minister, currently rounding the €18, a very far value from the €5 that the Government now enters into the 2019 Budget. Within the framework of green taxation in Portugal, the spirit of gradually taxing carbon in coal plants must be respected, so the increase in the percentage in each year cannot be mitigated by a national price which is decreasing. The values of national carbon rates in European countries have not fallen, quite the contrary, because they are, in many cases, indexed at the price of emission licences, as in Portugal, and have therefore increased. Mr. Minister of Finance, another measure on the energy sector that presents itself to us as little understandable and that we cannot fail to comment is the end of the exemption from the extraordinary contribution payment on the energy sector ( EESC ) in the production of electricity from electro-producers using renewable energy sources. The end of this exemption occurs, while several cogeneration electro-producers centres, which use fossil fuels, will remain free. We therefore call for the enormous inconsistency with regard to policies in the field of energy and climate, when on the one hand the Government claims to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, but on the other hand it takes measures that penalise renewables and exclude from the extraordinary contribution the electricity produced by fossil fuels. Mr Minister for Finance, we will take this booklet for the discussion in the field of expertise, waiting for the Government to open up to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u117	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u118	Mr President, Mr André Silva, as you know, the Government has implemented a set of measures not only at the rate or tax level but also at the level of decarbonisation of the economy, improving mobility and betting on public transport. These measures certainly contribute to the objective which has just been stated, which is not entirely foreign to the political, economic and budgetary priorities of the Government. With regard to the issue raised by me of the carbon rate, which, as you know, is based on the CELE (European Trade in Emission Licences), it has increased from €6, €5 / t to €20/ t, which seems to us to be quite significant evolution of the carbon penalty. What we have to find, as in the budgetary area, is a balance that enables the sustained, inclusive development of our economy—and this is also a long-term design—but that will signal those who are the important incentives to rationalise the use of plastic and all that is fossil energy. That is the aim of the Government, so we will continue and it is clear that as I said recently to Mr. João Oliveira, we are open and we will certainly debate, at the level of the speciality, the proposals which he has put forward in this area, which is, as you know, central to the Government programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u119	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second phase of the requests for clarification. We now have six requests, to which Mr Finance Minister will answer together. First of all, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u120	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, you have brought us here a song of success and great self-satisfaction. Let us then look at these results and see how they have taken advantage of or wasted a unique opportunity of the international environment, of the ECB's policy, of the normality recovered in the country and of the reforms that the Portuguese have made with effort in a recent past. You call it success, we call it an unforgivable missed opportunity, an unrepeatable waste, an unforgivable waste. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u121	Explain to me, Minister for Finance, how can you claim success, when 20 countries in Europe grow more than we do, when in 2017 we have the second worst deficit and Europe's third largest debt,
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u122	It's a success, it's a success! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u123	... when productivity has fallen since 2015, Minister — says the Budget Report, pages 50 and 61 — when the budgetary consolidation they make is less than one third of the previous legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u125	... when up to 10 years of public debt interest is today higher than in March 2015. How can you claim success when the income available from families — page 51 of the Budget Report — has never grown as much as in 2015 in this legislature? Oh, my God! How does it claim success with the tax burden at most of the time and public investment at least always? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u126	Mr. Minister of Finance, explain to me how this is a success. How does it show so much self-satisfaction when they are unforgivable to waste a unique and unrepeatable opportunity in the country? Oh, my God! How is that successful, Minister for Finance? Let me explain perhaps the most regrettable and, more importantly, almost incomprehensible choice of this majority, and surely Mr Prime Minister: how did you decide and succeed in making the tax burden the maximum of time and the public services are at least always? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u128	Mr Minister, the Portuguese have made a portion of the income generated — greater than they have ever delivered to the State — and at the same time have made the greatest cuts and seizures of public investments. This is a socialist historical brand! This, yes, is historical: maximum tax burden for minimum public services! [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Mr. Minister Centeno, yes, are your numbers of your Report: the year 2018 records the record of always tax burden, which in 2019 will be above any of the previous years! In 2019 — your numbers, Minister! — households and businesses will pay more than 7 billion euros of taxes than they paid in 2015. Only next year is EUR 1400 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u130	I know, come with the talk of illusion: « We did nothing about it! It's not our fault! » Mr Minister, the taxes that the Portuguese pay, the maximum tax burden they pay is their responsibility, and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u131	When the economy grows, taxes are expected to fall! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u132	Yes, for the omissions of certain taxes and for the aggravations of so many others! Yes, again, as they did in the three previous budgets, they again increase 11 taxes! from fuel to autonomous taxes on IRC and IRS, to non-renewal of steps in IRS, e.g. to seal tax, tobacco tax, single circulation tax ( IUC ), vehicle tax ( ISV ) ; from contributions on forest resources to the municipal civil protection rate—great inheritance of the current Prime Minister, former President of the City Council of Lisbon, who wants to create a civil protection fee, to be paid by all Portuguese, even when the Constitutional Court says there is no service! », because this is good with António Costa, pay but does not receive service back. That's right! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Minister Centeno, you know that more shocking than this option to make Portuguese pay more taxes than ever before, is to charge more taxes to give them worse services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u133	Yes, that's what you've done! These are the unfortunate news of delays, suppressions, delays in public services — consultations on surgeries, train to classes, border defence of persons, air resources that have not been activated on equipment and materials that have not been renewed — from waiting times for people who are desperate for the failures of the State. It's not just the resignations and strikes that hit records, it's the cuts in public investment and the seizures you get, Mr. Prime Minister, with you, hit records.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u134	Is the PSD now concerned about public services? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u135	It was enough that in this legislature they kept a public investment equal to 2015 and in these four years they had invested more EUR 1500 million! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u136	It was enough to keep the public investment equal to 2015! What would not be done with EUR 1500 million in hospitals, schools, health centres, police stations, defence equipment and security forces? Oh, my God! With your maximum seizures for minimum services, we have already started with EUR 500 million of final children, so far, and we have learned that with this 'trick' artist that UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has revealed, we have already started with EUR 590 million of captives, which are planned in this Budget that those on the left will certainly approve. They talk, they talk, they talk, but captivating is also with them! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u137	Are you worried about the lack of money for lawyers' offices? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u138	Mr. Minister of Finance, the weight of GDP taxes rises, but the weight of GDP education falls!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u139	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u140	Health is supposed to be a priority, but the state's spending on health increases less than the state's total expenditure. Great priority! Open... Mr Centeno and, above all, Mr Prime Minister, this is your choice, made at a missed opportunity: to put the Portuguese to pay the maximum tax burden of always to receive minimum public services. Sadden your choice! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[PS protests.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u141	To request clarification, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u142	Mr President, Mr Minister of Finance, laterally, I wanted to begin by saying that this idea that Mr. António Leitão Amaro has just introduced, that municipal civil protection does not provide services to the populations, is an idea of him, the Constitutional Court has not written any of this,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u143	... and it is appropriate to read carefully the judgments of the Constitutional Court, before throwing this type of irresponsible statements above the civil protection of this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u144	And we pay taxes for what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u145	But, Mr Minister for Finance, the debate has so far had the great advantage of fully clarifying the issue of electoralism. Otherwise, let's see. The PSD opens the debate saying that this budget is electoralist. Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro soon comes and says « attention, because this budget charges the Portuguese and does not spend enough on public services», which I would say is the antithesis of voters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, indeed, all this is overcome by the intervention of the President of the CDS, who, under that adjective strain, has basically succeeded in promising everyone that has recently claimed something. And he did this, adding billions to the expense, when, on Friday, they had proposals here to withdraw billions to revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Truly, the Budget for CDS is not a revenue and expense thing, it is a pantomime of commedia dell’ art... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that is why we maintain our commitment to reject all the CDS proposals that our sense of responsibility compels us to reject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u146	They don't even know what they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u147	However, Mr Minister for Finance, I would also like to refer to the question of this budget, whether or not to the future, or to be, in an expression which has been used here, « sheet wins, sheet spends». It should be noted that'successful sheet, waste sheet' would already be a progress, because, in previous budgets, what we had was that'success sheet' did not reach the'spent sheet' and it was necessary to ask'success sheet' borrowed. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] And always more "plate" than the one that was originally planned! Open... Therefore, Minister for Finance, the first sign of commitment from this Budget to the future is the fact that it is another budget that reduces public debt, and this is the charge that each of our financial decisions leaves for future generations. This and the previous Budget, because they have the lowest deficits in democracy, are the main sign of our commitment to the future. But they're not alone! It is that tax revenue which Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro refuses to understand, which is tax revenue and tax revenue and which is mainly growing because unemployment goes down much more than we had anticipated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u148	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u149	...is not all spent on the expense of the present. It is because of the decisions taken in previous budgets and in this Budget, of the allocation of part of this tax revenue to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security that this Fund for Financial Stabilisation, by today's projections, will be able to sustain a possible imbalance of accounts for more than 19 years than when this legislation began. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That, Mr Minister for Finance, is that it is a budget that alerts the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u150	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u151	Mr President, Minister for Finance, the reduction in the energy costs of families was a joint work which the Left Block and the Government have carried out throughout this legislature — not always with agreement, not always with correctness, but, in fact, with an important result. We already know that this year we have managed to avoid, by rising energy prices, an increase in the order of 8 % on account of measures which have not penalized consumers but, on the contrary, have focused on the interests of large electricity. On the other hand, we are looking at the possibility of further reducing the electric invoice by about 5 %, with the injection to be made by the EESC's revenue (extraordinary contribution to the energy sector) to lower the tariff. This is a concordance we have with the government. As for us, there are three important errors on the table in this budget — mistakes in the EESC, VAT and incomes — and one of them has been decidedly corrected by the government, which directed the EESC's revenue to reduce the tariff deficit. It is a good measure and has the support of the Block. It should have always been that way. The EESC's revenue should have been used to prevent the energy costs of families from reaching today's unbearable levels. Therefore, it is healthy that this recipe is finally applied where it should be applied. But there are two other errors in the past which are being dealt with by the government, for us, in a very insufficient way. The first has to do with VAT. Keeps the VAT rate the troika introduced. I recall that it was the current Secretary of State for Energy who, on behalf of the Socialist Party, condemned this increase and defended the return to the intermediate rate of 13%. The Government felt that it was unable to make such a reversal and opted for a measure which, in our view, is weak and very insufficient: a VAT discount limited to the share of the power contracted in the invoice. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And worse than that: even in the portion of the power contracted, not all consumers are covered, only those who have a lower contracted power are able to manage. So there are about two million total contracts, of the six million, which are out of this reduction in the VAT rate compared to the contracted power. I ask the Minister of Finance whether, in relation to the measure so modest that the Government has designed, it is available to extend the reduction of VAT to all power up to 6, 9 kVA, which is the power that the generality of consumers uses. For example, it is the standard of 6, 9 kVA which is practised for the social energy tariff. It is not an exorbitant level of consumption, quite the contrary. The third issue that is being answered insufficiently by the Government is precisely the one concerning the contribution of renewable energy producers within the EESC. Mrs Mortágua has already raised the issue and the Minister has not had an opportunity to answer it, but I ask you to answer it now. now, with the EESC as it is configured, we will have a very complicated scenario to reach the EUR 30 million that the government has planned with its contribution proposal, which is different from what the Block presented last year, both in the model and in scope.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u152	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u153	Why? Because it is still excluded from the EESC's payment that power stations are allocated through public tenders. Now, when we look at renewable production, we see that the oldest power stations have not been awarded by competition. These are very much amortised and will pay very little for the EESC. As for the most recent ones, they were awarded by invitation to tender and will therefore be exempt from this payment. It will be difficult to achieve at least half of the 30 million that the government has foreseen. I ask you, Minister, whether the Government is available to correct this measure by raising the exemption for power stations awarded by invitation to tender and enabling the EESC to achieve the Government's objective, which is a contribution to the level of EUR 30 million. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u154	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr Minister for Finance, I would like to start by telling you that I was very shocked when I heard you characterizing this Budget as the Budget wearing Prada, a luxury brand. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u156	For a Portuguese person who is unemployed, or for a Portuguese person who has been waiting for months for a consultation or an operation in the SNS, for a worker who has to use public transport every day, whether late or deleted, or for a mother or father who has a child in a school who is waiting for intervention for months, but who systematically says that there is no money, to hear the Minister of Finance say that this State Budget wears a luxury mark is a deeply unfortunate statement. Almost as unhappy, Mr Minister, as that statement I said here today, that this budget brings enormous fiscal relief. Minister, let's see if we understand each other. Between this budget and the one of four years ago, the Portuguese are paying more EUR 7 billion of taxes — it is the sum of this budget that "wears Prada" and that has Mr. Minister's responsibility and chance. [[PS protests.]] In 2018, we have had the biggest tax burden ever—see the UTAO framework—and in 2019, very likely if we fail the forecast as it failed for 2018, we will have a tax burden similar to 2018. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u157	That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you four questions on this subject. The first one has to do with the gas and gas tax. Mr Minister talks a lot about keeping promises, but it was Mr Minister who, when he created the overtax of 0, 06 €, made the promise that this overtax would be neutral, that he would come down. If you have any doubts about this, you can look at Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, who was with you at the time in the government and who really likes to speak in pantominics — the pantomino is someone who says something and who is disarguing himself exactly at the next moment — who said several times that this rate was neutral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u158	Your entire government has been a pantominist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u159	Where's neutrality? He's gone! They failed in your word!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u161	Mr Minister, we also remember that when the CDS brought to the House the proposal to eliminate this overtax, you said, as well as the Communist Party and the Left Block, that they admitted to discussing this matter in the debate of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u162	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u163	The truth is, Mr Minister, that we look at the Budget and we see that, once again, you have failed your word, since there is nothing there regarding the ISP (tax on oil and energy products). I would like to remember that today a Portuguese who goes to a gas pump is paying more 0, 40 € / l, 25 € per tank, if you have a gas oil car, or 0, 29 € / l, 18 € per tank, if you have a gasoline car, than you paid before this surcharge that was created by VV. Ex. We are talking, Mr Minister, of a difference between 2015 and 2019, of more than 1400 million euros only in this tax. So I ask you: will you or will you not fulfill the word of eliminating this overtax in the Budget? Moreover, Minister : How can you create a carbon rate by changing the calculation formula, which at the end of the day will result in the rise of the ISP of 0, 01 € / l? Explain this to me, Minister, because I sincerely liked to understand. Second question: for 2019, an inflation of 1, 3 % is expected. The fact is that the government will not update the IRS tables in this regard, withdrawing income from Portuguese and increasing tax revenue. Mr Minister, are you or are you not available to accept the CDS proposal to update the IRS tables to the value of inflation? Third question : on overtime, the CDS has already proposed, in last year's State Budget, the exclusion of the extra hours taxed by many workers in Portugal. What happens, right now, is that a person who works more, often receives more, but has to pay much more taxes, making his effort and merit completely useless. in this sense, we proposed the elimination of overtime taxation and you said it was impossible. Already in this State budget they have withdrawn from the envelope, which will give the following: a person who works now will pay a lot later and, in the meantime, goes to the voting booth. Is it available or not to withdraw the extra hours tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u165	For what purpose? What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u166	Fourth question : continuing to talk about pantominics or achievements, it has already been said here that the reduction in electricity VAT is a achievement, which will be applied to very few people, such as an achievement of the reduction of VAT to the area of culture, proposed by the CDS. It is because you have reduced VAT for culture only in relation to fixed premises, not allowing, for example, the outdoor show to have a reduced VAT rate. An achievement! Just as it is a achievement of tax and civil protection rates. Let me tell you, Minister, that these two taxes and the taxes I'm talking about will only be so if the Communist Party and the Left Block want,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u167	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u168	...because the CDS will propose the elimination of them. Mr. Minister, if these taxes go ahead, they will not dress Prada, they will dress Pravda, because they depend on these two benches, which will have to be confronted with many of the things they have been saying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u169	You guys just want the money in your pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u170	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I think it is time, when he intervenes in this House, to stop making jokes and talk specifically about what he has presented to the Portuguese and to Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u172	You're asking for a remodeling! It's just that this government can't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u173	It's simple and you'll understand why I'm saying this, Minister. It is because I loved to know what the President of the Eurogroup thinks of the position of the Minister of Finance of Portugal. It is quite simply because the Minister knows — at least he has a duty to know! — what Members now have to vote on is a budget proposal which has a deficit of about 0, 5 % of GDP. Mr. Minister knows that as well as any of us. I would therefore like to know the opinion of the President of the Eurogroup on this matter. Secondly, either the Minister put the expenditure above what he intends to do to satisfy certain groups, including the political groups of this House, but he does not intend to implement any of these measures — and then say in particular that he is not going to implement measures — or then he is clearly trying to deceive the Portuguese. On this point, Minister, I have only one word: lack of political seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u174	That's four words! Words can't even count!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u175	This is not good for the Minister of Finance of Portugal. I hope that the President of the Eurogroup will be better! [[PSD applause.]] And worse than that, Minister : in fact, you are champions doing a lot of jokes and propaganda — that you like to do — but then the reality, as has already been demonstrated here by several parties, unfortunately, is not the one they were propagandaising. They announce: « It will lower the VAT of electricity. The Portuguese will pay less». Then you realize that you will only lower the VAT of the counters, those of lower power, that people have at home. It's a mistake! It's throwing sand into the eyes of the Portuguese! They say: « Extraordinary hours will not be taxed ». No, they will not be at the moment they are received, but by 2020, then there will be the bill to pay after the elections. They also say: «The early retirement regime will be facilitated for those who are 60 years of age and 40 years of service ». Soon thereafter, confusion settles and realizes that it was another lie that had been thrown over the Portuguese. Mr Minister, democracy has rules and the rule means that we can disagree with each other. However, we must speak seriously about what we propose to the Portuguese people and to Parliament and, unfortunately, that is not its characteristic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u176	For my part only, I did not give the floor when I owed Mr Paulo Sá to the CFP. You have the floor, Mr President, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, with the decisive contribution of the CFP over the past three years, have reverted to some of the most serious tax measures of the former PSD / CDS government and have made some progress that have contributed to a fairer and more appropriate taxation to the development needs of our country. The IRS has been reduced, the special payment on behalf of micro and small enterprises has been reduced, the VAT on restoration has been reduced, the maximum rate of the IMI (municipal property tax) has been reduced, the VAT on musical instruments has been reduced, the new tax on high value real estate has been introduced, some rules that facilitated aggressive tax planning by the economic groups and large companies have increased the state spill for companies with high profits, among other measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u179	The State Budget for 2019 continues, although very limitedly, the tax relief at the head of IRS of workers, pensioners and families through a further increase in the minimum of existence. However, Mr Minister for Finance, it will still be necessary to update the limits of the IRS steps with regard to inflation in particular. Among the tax measures already incorporated in the State budget proposal is the elimination of the special payment on account, a measure aimed at micro and small enterprises. This is a proposal for which the CFP has been fighting for a long time and which will finally be implemented now. In 2016, in the first State budget of the new phase of national political life this measure was not accepted. But the CFP did not give up, did not resign and persisted in its fight, achieving in the State Budget for 2017 the reduction of the CFP and the registration of a standard establishing its extinction in 2019. The persistence of the CFP has borne fruit: in the coming year, more than 100 000 micro and small businesses will no longer have to make the special payment on their own. Also important for micro and small enterprises, such as, in fact, for the general population, is the reduction of the ISP, as the PCP has been proposing. So, Minister for Finance, I would like to ask you when this reduction will be realized. I repeat: when will the reduction in ISP be achieved? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, tax relief measures for workers, pensioners and pensioners, families and micro and small entrepreneurs must be accompanied by measures which guarantee more adequate taxation of large incomes, large estates and large profits. The CFP has proposals in this regard. One is the mandatory coverage, within IRS, of all incomes, including real estate and capital, for taxpayers with very high incomes, i.e. over €100,000 per year. The implementation of this measure will contribute to correcting distortions to the principle of progressive IRS, ensuring greater fiscal equity. Another proposal is the creation of a new step in the additional IMI for real estate over one and a half million euros. This is a measure that will ensure the fairest and most appropriate taxation of the approximately 400 people who, as a whole, have real estate worth more than EUR 1000 million. The creation of a new state-wide spillover step for companies with annual profits between EUR 20 and EUR 35 million will also represent, for each of the 100 companies covered, an additional tax of around €300,000 per year, a small contribution for companies with annual profits of tens or hundreds of millions of euros. These are just and necessary proposals, which the CFP will present in the debate of the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u180	You now have the floor to respond to this round of requests for clarification, Mr Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u181	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, let me tell you that you have missed another opportunity. You missed another opportunity to recognize the country's success! But it's an option! It is an option that has been making since 2016 in the discussion of the 2017 State Budget. I advise you to go back to the wise words that you then said about the non-growth of the economy in 2017, the non-increase in exports, the non-increase in income.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u182	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u183	Mr. Deputy, you've all failed. All of them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] There was not a single forecast of what the honourable Member had made from GDP to exports, income and public debt. Mr Deputy, Portugal today has a unemployment rate far below the euro area average. The Portuguese economy has been the economy where employment has grown the most in the last two years. The income of Portuguese families increases 18% in this legislation and the production of the country increases 16%. Yes, we have a deficit of 0, 2 % in 2019, and we have a debt to fall 12 percentage points against the maximum reached in 2016. All these indicators are not the indicators of the success of the government, but of the success of the country! The honourable Member's stubborn recognition of these numbers is not a heist in the face of the government, they are a heist in the face of the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But anyone who wants to live from back to back in the country has an option: follow what the honourable Member has said here. Speaking in electoralism, I associate myself with your expression « maximal electoralism », which in the version of the honourable Member is in fact what defines the 2015 State Budget, because that is what your government did at the time to prepare the 2015 elections. All the indicators of public expenditure that you have mentioned here are 2015. It won't be by chance, of course! It won't be by chance! [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]] Mr. Member, the weight of the IRS charged to Portuguese households in GDP fell from 7, 3 % in 2015 to 6, 3 % in 2019. It is less than 1 percentage point, which represents EUR 2000 million of the 2019 GDP, because in 2015 it was smaller. In 2019, it is EUR 2000 million—this is the size of the tax relief I am talking about. Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, any comment you make on your speech can only make it worse. [[PS rice and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u184	It's hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u185	I therefore fully associate myself with the honourable Member, in his translation that debt reduction is the best investment in the future, that the sustainability indicators we have in social security are the best bet in the future for Portugal. It is precisely in this sense that we work, that is the effort we make, so I subscribe to all of your statements. Mr Jorge Costa, it is now public and well known that the issue of the cost of electricity and the VAT of electricity was one of the major issues in preparing this State budget. in this context, we proposed and agreed on a set of measures not only with the Left Block, but also with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Green Party. I would also like to take advantage of an issue which Mr Sá has put here, saying that in this set of measures we had a reduction in VAT in one of the components of electricity bill that do not reach very few people: there are more than 3 million family accountants who will benefit from this reduction. But this measure must be understood in a broader set. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u186	There was the CDS on purpose down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u187	On the issues that Mr Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Mortágua have raised about the EESC, I would say that we are examining them and we will certainly address them in the field. in this set of measures, it is also planned — and I also respond to Mr Mota Soares — a reduction in the ISP of petrol. This reduction will be by door and, therefore, is not in the articulation of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u188	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u189	This measure replaces the ISP of gasoline at levels before the increase and not the overtax. Mr Mota Soares very much likes the words he creates in the governments where he participates. Overtax is not an overtax! There was an ISP update and this update, currently in the case of gasoline, is completely reversed with this reduction. Mr. Paulo Sá, this answer is also for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u190	Are the PCP gonna keep the word or come back with the word back? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u191	Mr Mota Soares, confused the sentence and I think we should like to be well quoted. I have never, in my speech, associated this mark which referred to the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u192	I said it so many times!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u193	I never associated her with the State budget, and you did not do anything to quote my words accurately!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u194	He associated her with unemployment, which is much worse! This shows insensitivity! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u195	Mr. Minister of Finance, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u196	I will remain calm, because your anger, Mr, is only because you have misquoted my sentence. When we are wrong, we must not exalt ourselves, we must be calm, we must listen to what they are telling us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] And what I am telling you is that at the end of this sentence all the indicators mentioned here are associated with the « Portugal» brand. The decrease in unemployment, the increase in employment, the increase in exports, and the increase in GDP are, Mr Deputy, in that sentence he quoted, associated with the « Portugal » brand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u197	Are you apologizing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u198	At least I quote the Minister of Finance from this country with the phrase that Mr Finance said and that it was exactly what I am telling you. As far as gas is concerned, it has already been answered. As for the issue of IRS reform, we implemented an IRS reform in 2018 which involved a very significant change in the steps. at that time, we said that these steps would take effect throughout the implementation of the reform and that it would have an impact in two years—2018 and 2019. Nothing more coherent! That is exactly what you are proposing this year. Once again, Mr, the manner in which the tax on overtime and on previous years'income is referred to is not so defined by the Government's proposal. The proposal makes it clear that these forms of income apply to the same retention rate in the source that is already applied to the Christmas allowance and to the holiday allowance. It is not a matter of paying taxes, but rather of affecting these forms of income at the same rate of tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u199	Pay for later!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u200	Mr Duarte Pacheco, fulfilling is delivering Budgets, running them and achieving the goals set. That is exactly what we did in 2016, in 2017, is going to be so in 2018 and will be so in 2019 — 0, 2% is the deficit the government estimates for 2019. There is no other number to discuss other than 0, 2 % corresponding to this deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u201	What's the expense you won't show up, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u202	Mr. Paulo Sá, the questions raised about AIMI (additional to municipal property tax) and the spillover are excellent incentives for debate for the specialty. We will talk about these matters at that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u203	A new round of six requests for clarification follows. I remember that there will then be another round of requests for clarification. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please regulate your time properly, according to existing availability. Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u204	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other government members, Mr Minister for Finance, "An imperative need" — that is how this Government has defined its relationship with autonomous regions in its Programme. An imperative need to reconcile the country with the autonomous regions, an imperative need to mobilize the Azores and Madeira for a new relationship. And if it is true that, after years of forgetting, there was a mistrust that this change would take place, the reality is that it happened. There is a positive change in the relationship with regional autonomy that has been deepened every year in this legislature; there is a positive change when we eliminate limitations to its constitutional and statutory competences; above all, there is a change, because this government considers our strategic active regions for the development of the country! Therefore, and I repeat again, since the first day, this government has entered into this new vision of the whole national. A new vision that has had translation in the various Budgets presented, not being this exception. This budget persists in investing in the Azores and Madeira, when it fully and strictly fulfils regional transfers, when it transfers to regional health services the revenues obtained with non-alcoholic beverages tax or when it returns to autonomous regions the revenues obtained with social games, something that did not happen with the previous PSD / CDS-PP government. But this government also persists in investing in the Azorians and Maderians when it secures investments in State services, when it strengthens the connectivity and proximity of the Azorians and Maderians with the rest of the national territory, increasing the social mobility allowance above 100 %, or when it strengthens inter-linkivity and proximity, sharing public service obligations, something that did not happen with the former PSD/CDS Government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government is aware of the need to continue to bet and to reduce, above all, to correct, these inequalities that still persist in the autonomous regions; it is aware of the potential we represent for the country's external projection; it is aware that investing in the Azores and Madeira is investing in the national future. In view of this awareness, this budget continues to invest in regional companies, by promoting the replacement of sub-continental cable interconnections between the continent and autonomous regions, as well as by reducing the costs of its use by more than 70 %; it places on clean maritime transport, by strategically promoting the use of liquefied natural gas; and considers strategicly the defence of regional interests at international level, supporting emigrants in Venezuela, as well as those who have returned and bet on strategic projects such as the AIR Centre, the Atlantic International Research Centre, the Observatory of the Atlantic, the Horta airport or the negotiation of the Lajes Base dossier. There is an obvious effort by this government to bet on, invest and comply with autonomous regions, looking at their distinct problems, giving responses adapted to their specificities. And, despite the persistence of many challenges that we will continue to face, the reality is that we are building a new model. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a positive and systematic attitude of this government to assume its responsibilities and responsibilities, and I am glad, at last, that is so. in this sense, Mr Minister of Finance, we ask you to develop to what extent this budget implements this bet in the Azores and Madeira, which is intended to be involved, positive and systematic in the national context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u205	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u206	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, first of all, I ask for two clarifications on matters that have already been discussed. Mr Minister, the first request for clarification concerns a matter in which the CDS, since the first hour, has been fighting the neutrality of the ISP, announced and subsequently breached by this Government. With regard to this tax, three years after this government, not complying with this neutrality, having been drawing revenue from the economy, revenue from taxpayers, revenue from families, to fail, the Minister now says that he is going to lower the ISP. Let us be clear—and the question I ask is to clarify: if you want, at the end of three years, to comply with what the CDS required you three years ago, then tell us in what terms it will do. How much is the ISP going to get out of gasoline? How much is the ISP going to get off the gas oil? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u207	The question has a justification. The Minister spoke about the door office, which has a formal reason, and I am telling you about the budget, which is a material one. The Budget notes that the revenue with the ISP increases EUR 200 million. What I want to ask is how the EUR 200 million, which you say has an increase in ISP revenue, are matched by the reduction that the CDS has claimed three years ago and which now Mr Minister seems to want to comply with. Second necessary clarification: the question of early pensions and 60 / 40. During the discussion in the specialty, it can't happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u208	Cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u209	... with early pensions what happened in the past budget with the updating of teachers' salaries, which is that there is a letter and several interpretations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u211	The government specializes in this and, as the people say, «the devil is in the details», given what to wear. Therefore, the Government bets in detail to deceive all those who, justice is done, if they allow themselves to be easily deluded, as is the case with those who, on the left, approve the Budgets without worrying about these same details.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u213	Mr Minister for Finance, what is being said to pensioners about the anticipation of their pensions this year is more or less what was said to teachers in the Budget last year? I mean, what are you going to have rights that then don't materialize? Or what are you going to recognize that it will not then be effective? Or will they, in practice, have conditions that they will never be able to achieve? Once and for all, clarify, on these early pensions, which is, indeed, at stake. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u214	Finally, Mr Minister, a matter which appeared very much in Mr Minister's speeches at the beginning of this Parliament and which disappeared: the question of the financial sector. Mr Minister, in the first budgetary debates and others, always said that he had solved all the problems of the financial sector. The previous government had left numerous financial sector problems and the Minister had solved all the problems of that sector. First question: where is the banking supervision reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u216	at the end of three years, where is the reform of banking supervision, which is announced from the outset? What government takes three years to deliver something as fundamental to Parliament as banking supervision? Oh, my God! And what is lacking is this revised and reformed banking supervision, at a time when, as the Minister knows, the way in which consumer credit and housing credit is being granted is being discussed without us being prudently careful about what at other times has not been taken care of and caused the problems it has caused. Minister, three years' delay in the supervisory reform may cost the country what could be avoided. On solving the problems in the financial sector, I hoped I would not have to ask this question because it would probably be a question that the Left Block or CFP boards would ask.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u217	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u218	But the Left Block and the PCP have forgotten that it still exists in the BANIF and BPN Budget. They forgot! There's no more BANIF or BPN! I can tell you, Mr Minister, that there is not only BANIF and BPN in this Budget, such as the weight of transfers to the vehicles of BANIF and BPN, as I said today, a specialized social communication body, is greater than the updating of public officials' careers. So the clear question I ask you is: how did the Minister of Finance, who had solved all the problems of the financial sector, in the last budget of the Parliament transfer to the vehicles of BPN, nationalized by a socialist government, and for the vehicles of BANIF, resolved and handed over to Santander by this socialist government, EUR 885 million more than what it spends on the careers of civil servants? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u219	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, it is a profound political demagogy to hear the PSD and the CDS speak of workers' rights. This is because when they were able to guarantee workers' rights, they did nothing but cut wages, cut pensions, increase working hours, destroy careers and — stop! — redeploy public servants. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They had a proposal on the table. Mr Mota Soares had the responsibility to fire 700 people on social security and today he is on the rise, to the deep political hypocrisy of asking what measures this budget has in relation to careers. Mrs. Members, this budget establishes proposals for career development, because the CFP has fought a lot for this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u221	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u222	... against the will of PSD and CDS. [[PCP applause.]] It is, Mr Minister, what is crucial today is to realize that all those who wanted, forever, because the PSD and the CDS wanted forever! , cuts in wages and pensions and the increase in working hours for 40 hours—against the clock of history— do not conform to a path of replacement of rights. And they use the rights of workers and public administration workers to politicize. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo.]] This we do not accept, Mr Minister, because in fact the public administration workers deserve respect and must be valued in their rights! So, here we say very clearly: the valuation of wages, the general increase of wages for all public administration workers, restating the purchasing power that has been lost, is to establish justice. It is not possible to speak in valuing workers without ensuring wage valuations. We do not forget a very important thing and which, moreover, always counted on the vote against the PSD and CDS: the increase of the minimum wage to 650 €. A very significant part of the public administration's workers, about 200 000, takes little more than the minimum wage. So when the PCP, weeks ago, here presented the proposal to increase the minimum wage to 650 € also for the public sector, how did PSD and CDS vote? Against, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u224	That is why political demagogy has limits, but public administration workers demand answers. Regarding the accounting of the full time of service of teachers and other careers of the Public Administration, it is not a favor that is done to the workers, it is a right that is recognized to them and it is to establish justice that is so!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u226	One more word about precariousness. Zero tolerance to precariousness is a daily battle. Each permanent job must correspond to an effective link. For more than six State budgets, the PCP brought here the proposal for a survey, for a diagnosis of precariousness. How did they vote PSD, CDS and PS as well? Against! It was on the proposal of the PCP that PREVPAP was established ( Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u227	And with the help of the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u228	But PREVPAP is not the only instrument to combat precariousness, the government has other instruments. Combating precariousness should be daily. Whether traineeships, or research fellows, are IEFP trainers, or false green receipts, if they respond to permanent needs, they must have an effective link. This is a basic commitment to employment with rights: the hiring of professionals in need. Mr Minister, we remember the bleeding of civil servants in the time of the PSD government and the CDS. In fact, working conditions were unacceptable and therefore public services today have a structural shortage of civil servants. We therefore want to guarantee the hiring of all those who need it, against the will of those — no matter what! — that all the time they said that we had more public officials, that it was too much, that the country did not bear so many privileges and so many civil servants and that today they use public officials, in their primary demagogy, to prevent a path of progress and rights. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is why, Minister, what we know is that more and better wages generate more and better public services and better public services generate better conditions of life and development in the country. This is the contribution of the CFP because we know that those who have practised the backward will never support progress, but those who defend progress and, intransigently, right-wing employment will always be in line with this battle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u229	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Margarida Mano, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u230	Mr President, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Dear Members, I particularly welcome Minister Mário Centeno for the opportunity to question and hear answers which, as a matter of course, Mr Minister of Education — he is not currently — could not give us, since he who directs us in the education budget is Mr Minister of Finance. The budget presented by this Government is another missed opportunity. It is true that there are several differences between us, ideological differences and attitude. And the main difference in attitude between us is ambition. PSD represents a country with ambition, a country that looks to the future and wants to be better in a better world. This ambition does not cast the importance of the zero deficit, but would now aspire to a structural surplus. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u231	This ambition does not accept that investment in education, in relation to total investment, is at present 2, 2 % in 2019 when in 2015 it was 4, 8 %, does not accept that the budget of PO11, of education, is in 2019 at the same level as 2011. Ideological differences translate into choices that waste the opportunity. They are choices in a path of illusion, of irresponsibility of the parties that support the government. And these are the wrong choices, the reduction of public investment in generation formation for the future, the use of exceptional revenue to pay structural expenditure, territorial injustice for citizens of low-density territories and populist measures that create social injustice. It is a budget of « elective» measures, as a former Member of Parliament and former Socialist Member of Parliament points out, I do not know whether it is the set of « electoral» and « traitor », that I do not know! Is that what you're talking about? In education and higher education, measures are introduced that will benefit those who need the least at the expense of those who need it most,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u232	It's the bookstore industry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u233	...of those who lack more help. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u234	There is a reduction in the value of the maximum tip.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u235	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u236	It is a measure that does not facilitate the life of the most deprived, who already receive the scholarship, and which, perversely, by lowering the income limit, removes about 1500 pockets from the system. Social justice would mean using these EUR 50 million in social action, for example by extending the stock market and increasing the complement of housing and housing. Mr Minister, when more than 100 000 senior students are displaced, without residence, it is a social shame that this budget does not have a commitment in this area. Another example is the allocation of free school textbooks to all students in public schools, regardless of whether they are rich, remedied or poor. To be socially fair would mean investing this EUR 100 million in children and young people who are deprived, in textbooks and school materials, in schools, in the renovation of school equipment, in computers, on the Internet, etc. [[PS protests.]] This is so that the inequalities in the family socioeconomic environment are mitigated. These would be the options of a Social-Democrat Budget. The Minister recently stated, and I quote: "Education was a bet of this legislation as seen by the allocation of financial resources to the sector. » Minister, education has not been, nor is it a bet on this government. Intentions are not enough! Therefore, I would like to ask firstly about the expenditure on education that was in 2015, 9, 6 % of the total and in 2019 it is lower, it will be 9, 5 %. This is accompanied by a dramatic decrease in public investment and a lower acquisition of capital goods in 2019 by 18 % compared to 2015. The only items that increase in the education budget by 2015 are staff spending, which are cross-cutting to the entire public service, and financial liabilities. After all, is this the view of this government for education, Minister? Second point: science, technology and higher education. The Government shall submit a public investment of 17 % less than 2015. The investment ratio fell from 7 % in 2015 to 4, 7 % in 2019. The government does not strengthen the initial appropriations of universities and politicians with the values of thawing, regularizing precarious links, hiring money from pockets, or reducing propines. Mr Minister, what are these appropriations? How much is that? Where's the government's bet in this sector? The schools are suffocated. We are told by the directors that not even in the time of the troika had such a situation. It has increased absenteeism, there are delays to suppliers, the professional has not been paid for another year — I repeat, Prime Minister, the professional has not been paid for another year! — there are problems with obsolete infrastructure and equipment. When it will invest in this sector in order to meet the needs and challenges of the future. Finally, and as expected, it is important to note that this Budget, designed by all the parties supporting the Government, presents no solutions to the demands of the teachers' time of service. Question : Is this really the case? Or are there budgeted money? If yes, what value, regarding how long and where are they entered? If not, does this mean that the matter does not even deserve budgetary relief? Mr Minister, for the data this Budget reveals and also for those who do not reveal, how is it possible to say that education was a bet of this Legislation, when it presents us a Budget that is not rigorous and not transparent and, above all, with investment levels below 2015? Minister, bet on education? Only if it's a little bit! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u237	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr António Sales, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u238	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other Ministers, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, the proposals for the State budget are moments of truth, I repeat, are times of truth. It is true about the choices that are made; it is true about the priorities that are established and about the value and social purpose of the policies that are adopted. We all have memory, even though some try to make themselves forgotten, and the naked and raw truth is that between 2011 and 2015, the previous PSD/CDS government chose to limit and restrict social policies, as was the case with health, drastically diminish public funding for health and the National Health Service, impose blind cuts that substantially affected the capacity and functioning of services and the access of Portuguese to health care. They reduced the number of health professionals, frozen investment, increased moderate rates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the bare and raw truth of the choices made by the previous PSD/CDS government. On the contrary, Mr. Minister, the current government has since the original 2016 budget, re-emphasized health and the National Health Service as a priority, increasing the total expenditure and the amount of transfers to the National Health Service each year. Mr Minister, this is the last fiscal year of this Parliament, and this is also the appropriate time to make a balance sheet of the budgetary choices since 2015 and the course of the current government, compared with the record of options and the course of the previous Government. The current 2019 budget proposal foresees as total health expenditure 10, 922 billion euros, i.e. more EUR 1860 million than in 2015, representing an increase of 20, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Transfers to the National Health Service, in the 2019 proposal, reach EUR 9, 01 billion, i.e. more EUR 1140 million than in 2015, which means an increase of 14, 5 %. In short, there are more 20, 6 % total expenditure compared to 2015, plus 14, 5 % transfers to SNS compared to 2015 and more 500 million euros for health compared to 2018, which means more 7, 1 %. Minister, this is the bare and raw truth. In the rigor of numbers and in the exercise of mathematics, what is true is true, what is not right is wrong. [[PSD protests.]] And the worst blind is the one who, in fact, does not want to see, taking refuge in the foam of the days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth of the fiscal policy followed by this government is that of the recovery of the deep degradation in which we found the National Health Service. We recovered from a cut of EUR 1000 million and introduced EUR 1200 million into the SNS; we recovered from a court of 7,000 health professionals now introducing more 9000; we recovered from a freeze of therapeutic innovation and introduced 111 new innovative drugs; we recovered from 1,300 000 users without a family doctor and medical services to over 700 000 new users. Minister, we have spent three years correcting factors of a heavy inheritance of blind cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore ask you, Minister, with the consciousness and humility of recognizing that we still need to do so, if, according to the path taken over the past three years, in the rigor of accounts and in the health of public finances, we are now in a position at this new stage of the budget cycle to develop a strategy of recovery for a more ambitious approach to the budgetary health programme through the definition of a strategy for the development of the National Health Service that enables us to stabilize the present and enhance appropriate responses to the challenges of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u239	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, in his speech, Mr Minister spoke a lot — very much — about health. But you may well come here, and, indeed, the socialist bench also, make inflamed proclamations that health is a priority of your government that neither your policy nor your budgets demonstrate it. You come to tell us that now it is, now it is! You come to tell us that this time it will not be like the last three years in which the announcement is not executed. We are told that austerity has not in itself been imposed on public services. In health, the Portuguese know that their words and promises do not correspond to reality and feel deeply disappointed. His Government, his Budget does not solve the financial burden imposed by the National Health Service, does not solve the underfinancing of the National Health Service. What your budget brings—and it is clear, Mr Minister, even when you laugh—is only, I repeat, a 2% increase in the funds transferred to the National Health Service. And you boast about it! A government remodeling has been made. Minister Adalberto was expelled, perhaps to launch a smoke curtain in this area. But the remodeling is over, but the problems continue, Minister. So what I want to tell you is that the dissatisfaction of health professionals has increased; strikes, like today's ones, are at a level that we have never had; they increase the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, and that you cannot deny. The administrations of the hospitals are captive of their captivity and have no autonomy to make timely decisions, to replace obsolete material, to hire early professionals, who continue to be in insufficient number. Mr Minister, after your speech and what Mr. António Sales has said now, I cannot but ask you for clarifications on gracious announcements and intentions in which this State budget is fertile, because on the financing for these promises we do not see. If not, see: I would like to ask about the implementation of the caregiver's status. Mr Minister, this is an area to which the CDS has been very dedicated since 2016 and on which in the State budget we have numerous announcements. Where are the funds allocated to implement this measure? They are vain promises or will indeed change to help thousands of Portuguese who have trusted in the words of their government and who are once again cheated. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the five hospitals, the five on which you come to make an announcement as if it were a huge thing, I must say that, from Budget to Budget, we are going to watch this caricature, Minister. For example, for the new hospital in Évora, even the president of ARS says he does not know whether he can commit to the launch of the work for the next year. It's the fourth budget, Minister! It is the fourth budget in which you come to make promises and play with the Portuguese and this Parliament! [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the reform of primary health care, Mr Minister, I must say that you are stopped, repeat, you are stopped, with USF engaged and not created. At the last hearing, in committee, that Minister Adalberto Fernandes had here in September, said that we would be surprised with an order on 1 October for 30 new USF model A and 20 model B. Minister, are we on October 29th, where is this office? Where are these ads that, once again, I repeat, once again, have not been fulfilled? Moreover, Minister : I would like to ask you about the National Network of Continued Care, another area where there are kind announcements in this State budget. What's the money you're going to get when you say you're going to increase your investment and there's huge debt? There are promises that have been signed by your government and that have not been fulfilled and therefore there are debts to this sector that are extreme. What's going to be, after all, cabimentated into the continuing care network? What I wanted to say, in conclusion, is that this State budget makes vague promises and benevolent health announcements, but does not discriminate against investments, does not prioritize them, nor does it schedule them. We are not here to believe in your promises, which you have already shown you fail. This is an opaque budget and the Minister can well say that now it is that, look, neither the Portuguese nor, see there, the benches that support your Government believe, because they are thus committed and tired of contortionism in order to be able to justify that they want to denounce problems, but then they will approve the budgets that accentuate and increase these problems. Mr Minister, make it clear whether or not you are actually going to commit yourself to money, run them and give priority to health or whether you will continue to disregard what this area represents for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u241	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lara Martinho, as you have said, this government's relationship with the autonomous regions has been intensifying the priorities that each one of us identifies. With regard to the areas which you have mentioned, I would like to stress that, for example, in the social mobility allowance, the State budget for 2019 provides for a duplication of funds from EUR 35 million to EUR 70 million. Also in inter-State public service obligations, as exists in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in the Autonomous Region of the Azores the amount allocated to it in the State budget of EUR 5, 6 million will be increased in 2019 to EUR 9, 8 million. These are the financial signals, but it is clear that behind these numbers are policies, measures with objectives. But in the financial dimension these are the commitments that are made in the State budget. We also have in the State budget an allocation for the launch of the public air cargo tender. This appropriation is in the State Budget and will be used for that purpose. It is clear that not only the financial dimension strengthens relations between the Government of the Republic and the governments of the autonomous regions. I chose here to make a note of this dimension because it seems to me that they have in relation to the year 2019. Mr. João Almeida, the ISP issue is to be addressed, and it is dealt with in the context of a package of energy measures, as the Government has committed itself to the debate that took place here in July. The reduction of 3 cents in the ISP on petrol represents an effort by the Government in the context of other measures, such as electricity VAT and the reduction of the tariff deficit, to allow a reduction in the cost of the different forms of energy for Portuguese in 2019. With this reduction of 3 cents in gasoline, the ISP is exactly at the level of the European average. As far as gas oil is concerned, we are already below the European average. That is why, together with professional gas oil — you have forgotten to mention that in 2016 it was extended to carry goods in a very significant way — these measures make up all the measures that the Government is going to propose. And that is how they should be understood. As far as pensions are concerned, I will mention only one number, and surely the debate will take place from here on: 16 000 Portuguese have already been reformed under the measures taken by this Government on long careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u243	What now? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u244	This is a very significant number of Portuguese, and these measures will, of course, always be continued in a dimension of responsibility, which is what this government has adopted. The honourable Member also spoke about the financial sector. I want to tell you that the reform of supervision in the financial sector is important for this government, it has not lost any importance. It was announced in a very broad context of measures on the financial sector, but no sector reform is done without the financial system being stabilized. We have taken many measures in this regard and today we have a new perspective on the financial system in Portugal. During this time, changes have also been implemented in Europe, so it was important that this reform should drink of these changes. However, in the coming weeks, very soon, we will also introduce this debate here in Parliament. The questions you ask about BPN and BANIF are different. In the case of BPN, the amount that is entered in the State Budget is to make an amortization of old BPN loans or, better, of BPN successors when it was nationalized. It has no impact on the deficit from that point of view. The same is true of BANIF : the Revenues of the Resident cover the funds that will be made available in the State Budget for operations relating to BANIF. Mrs Rita Rato, on matters of precariousness, as you know, we have a great deal of agreement on the importance of reducing precariousness. The implementation of PREVPAP is a matter of greatest importance to the Government. You also know, because I have mentioned it several times, the importance that PREVPAP does not manage, by itself, a disturbance at the workplace in the Public Administration. This is the care we have placed in the implementation of PREVPAP. The commitments are all made, we will take them to the end, and we will bring them to the end successfully. On the question of teachers, it is clear that the government has adopted the solution following negotiations with the unions, and we will implement that solution. Mrs Margarida Mano, I did not understand where the honourable Member would withdraw money for all the measures she has launched here, because in something she would have to give up. The honourable Member could have been generous with this House and stated what she would stop doing in order to do everything she said. In this State budget, there is a significant strengthening of social action in school; in this budget, there are funds for a housing programme of EUR 15 million, 2000 beds, up to 2021. This government makes a very clear commitment to education, which is seen through three aspects: the decrease in the number of students per class, the more than 7,000 teachers linked during this legislature and the more than 10,000 workers who joined in this legislature on employment in education. With regard to science, the budget of higher education institutions increases by 2 % in this budget. The budget of the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) is growing by more than 15 % as a result of the scientific employment programme. In this budget, we have an additional EUR 37 million in the science budget programme and an additional EUR 221 million in the education programme. Mr António Sales, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, health is a priority for this government. In 2019 we will introduce a new model of funding for hospitals. This new financing model emerges in the context of a drastic reduction in SNS debt. At the end of the year, this debt will run around EUR 350 million, one of the lowest values that there is memory in the National Health Service, which will enable hospitals to achieve efficiency, to implement management models that improve service delivery in the SNS, which is ultimately what we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u245	We moved on to a final round of questions to Mr. Minister for Finance. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, even though the Government has come to point out the increase in funding in higher education and science, as you have done right now, of course there are problems that will hardly find a solution without further measures in the State budget, and many of them are included precisely in the section on the replacement of rights and income as well as in the fight against precariousness. On the one hand, the underfinancing of higher education institutions remains visible. If this is not only resolved by the State budget and obliges amendments to the Finance Act itself, the truth is that it is also necessary to decisively contradict the downward trajectory, which has been going on for years, of right-wing policy. The weight of higher education as a whole in public expenditure has fallen sharply, especially since the 2000s, and has pushed us to be the first of the latter in a group of 35 countries, far from the European average, so many times mentioned. in this scenario, the strengthening of about 22 million to higher education institutions is insufficient to respond to investment needs. Strengthening funding is essential to ensure respect for the rights of both workers and students. The precarious nature of higher education and science is unacceptable: cases of unremunerated teaching activity provided by research fellows; pressures for the signing of unfair and illegal clauses in the contracts of invited teachers; readers of public universities to be taught for decades without linkage; the need for the fair application of the programme of regularization of precarious links, so that they are not precisely budgetary considerations to prevent effective recruitment in all careers, including special ones; inequality that is created at the level of wage progressions of teachers and researchers in relation to other public administration workers. Mr Minister, it's time to put the old body of precariousness in the trash that gives life to so many fellows and researchers, away from access to the career of scientific research, which was where they should have been for years. What is the government going to do? It is that the strengthening of both the institutions and the FCT does not reach such an undertaking. As regards student rights, Mr Minister, the costs of frequency should be reduced in a large way. Yes, with the end of the tips, but it is also necessary to strengthen school social action and an urgent response to resolve the drama of the lack of accommodation of higher education students. Mr Minister, EUR 15 million to be ready for 2000 new beds by 2021 is an advance, it is true, for which the CFP has contributed with its legislative initiative, but it is little and it is not enough time for those who are living the problem now! An immediate initiative is needed for students to see their constitutional right of access and frequency to the highest grades of fully completed education. We therefore want to know what will be done in this budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u247	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Domingos from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, this Budget is the confirmation that the quality of the growth of the Portuguese economy with this Government has been eradicated. [[PS laughter.]] Not only do we have one of Europe's lowest growths as we have Europe's third worst productivity performance between 2015 and 2018. Mr. Minister, be serious! Contrary to what you have said here today, the figures of your government in the report of your State budget show the reality. The productivity of the whole economy, and without the illusory effect of prices, decreased by 0, 4 % between 2015 and 2018. This is at least an alarming sign on the quality of the growth of the Portuguese economy with this government. Mr. Minister will say it's because the job has grown. But in the years of this government there were six countries that had employment increases higher than Portugal and in four of these countries productivity growth was much higher: in Ireland, Slovenia, Cyprus and Malta. What measures does the Government submit to businesses to improve productivity? As always, with this government, there is nothing. Mr Minister says that, after all, the greatest good for companies is fiscal stability. Mr. Minister, will you? Does it believe that it is really good for companies to have the OECD's second maximum IRC ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), which is overcome only by the situation in France? The situation is even worse than it seems, Mr Minister, because it presents measures within and for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) which are so little that they do not appear in the plan that the Government sent to the European Union. Is she ashamed of what she showed for being so minimal? On the other hand, it is again charging taxes on companies: on autonomous vehicle taxation, on oil products tax, on the extension of the extraordinary contribution on energy to renewable energy companies, on new contributions on forest resources and on civil protection. And it's not just this budget, Minister, it's been a long time ago. The above were highly penalizing companies and private initiative. They increased taxes on local housing, state spill, ISP, taxes on many self-employed workers. With this government, the focus of economic policy is almost exclusively on consumption, nothing for investment, nothing for exporting companies. It is a path that we have already followed in the past and with results that are tragically known. Minister, this government does not seem to know that who creates jobs, who creates wealth are the companies. Portugal has benefited in recent years from a unique opportunity to structurally strengthen the economy. The good winds from the outside would have allowed us to continue the reform programme of the former Government to make our economy stronger in the face of weather, strengthening the productivity of companies. Minister, when will this government stop wasting its opportunities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u249	You also have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u250	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Finance, we may wish to deceive everyone for some time, we may even be able to deceive some all the time, but we cannot fool everyone all the time. And the Madeirans have already realized that they have been deceived and that the State Budget is also a farce for Madeira. As is said in my land, «A dirty well does not remove clean water». After three years of many promises, it was now as clear as the water aldrabice and the ambush around the financing of the new Madeira hospital. The government has repeatedly promised to pay 50 % of the new hospital and now it only pays 13 %. I repeat, 13%! [[It's true, it's true!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u251	You announced, ladies and gentlemen. Members, funding over EUR 132 million, but later published a resolution of the Council of Ministers with only EUR 96.5 million. As if it's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government does not accept the payment of VAT and still accounts for the alien heritage, in particular the heritage of Dr. Nelio Mendonça Hospital and Marmeleiros Hospital. The Minister has come here to say — and he may continue to say that it is no use — that the government does not want a divided country, but what this government does is the first to treat differently a part of the country with electoral intent, suffocating the Madeirans. Let us look at another example: the Government has repeatedly promised to reduce the interest rate of the Region's loan, but instead it penalises families and Madeiran companies twice. He double punishes Madeira, because he does not lower the interest rate to 2, 5 %, does not eliminate the rate charged by the Republic and introduces the early payment of the debt. And it is not worth laughing, Minister, because that would allow Madeira a saving of EUR 140, EUR 5 million. As we have seen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not do anything at least: it punishes the Madeirans twice as much and wins twice as much with Madeira. First, with the rate of payment and, second, with the additional condition of early payment of the loan. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt at this time that the government's lack of speech towards Madeira is a national shame. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, it was three years of lies, three years of cheating, three years of cheating, tricks, manipulations, mere skills, vain words to deceive and play with the Maderians. At this point, is it necessary to ask the Government what it will do next: will it continue to set up schemes, new arguments and other justifications to fail to comply with even 13% of the funding of the new hospital? Will the government find new files to delay the work? Will the government continue to postpone the revision of the loan interest rate to Madeira or not? Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, are these the last scandals of the government, or should we still expect new surprises? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u252	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr António Ventura, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u253	Mr President, Minister, the bill states that the Government ensures the effective decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Praia da Vitoria. In order not to be fooled again, as far as it is said and as far as it is done, it is necessary for the government to say today, here, what it means by effective decontamination and what amount it is destined for this decontamination. This is what the Azorians want to know today. This has much to do with the relationship between the autonomous regions. Otherwise, this is more a budget than a mind that sells smoke to the Azorians. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u254	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, we recognize that there are many nice measures and many popular measures in this proposal for a State Budget. And it is not worth saying that these measures and these proposals have a very clear and very precise objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u256	Improving people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u257	It's the goal of winning votes! We know it is! Mr Minister for Finance alone and individually, no one will certainly disagree with these same measures, although many of them are manipulated and — allow me to say it — politically frowned upon. The question, therefore, is simply this: what is the price? What's the bill? What is the counterpart to be paid for this real budget orgy? [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u258	As you know, "there are no free lunches"! And the Government's options, of course, imply that we have given up a budget balance that could be 0 % and that was perfectly within reach of the Portuguese State. The Government's options imply an increase in gross public debt by more than EUR 3000 million in 2019. Over EUR 3000 million! The options of the Government, Mr Minister, necessarily imply an increase in tax revenue. After last year the tax burden hit the record of democracy with 34, 7 %, the government in 2019 will keep the tax burden at the same historical peaks. Next year, as a tax revenue, the Portuguese will deliver more EUR 7000 million to the state's coffers compared with 2015. After all, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't pay any more taxes because we're under the troika's financial cap, we pay more taxes because the government wants the Portuguese to pay more taxes. It's as simple as that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u259	The options of the Government, Mr Minister, involve continuing to cut public investments in 2019 with a view to the functioning of a State that wants to serve the people, particularly in health and education. I give just one example, Mr Minister of Finance: transfers to the National Health Service increase EUR 200 million—is it not true, Mr António Sales? — 2, 3 %, but the State's primary expenditure amounts to 3, 1 %! Therefore, in the cake, health will be worth even less than it was worth in 2019. As Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party said, the worst blind is the one he doesn't want to see! [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] Mr Minister for Finance, in his initial speech, said that governance involves making choices. The question that remains is this, Minister : do these choices, perhaps, legitimize the Portuguese future? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u260	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Berta Cabral, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, in his initial speech, the Minister asked to win and emphasize that the Government has fulfilled what he has promised. But no, Minister, you didn't. The government did not fulfill what it promised the Azores. We are discussing the last budget of this Parliament and nothing has been achieved with regard to public investment in state services in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Nothing, Minister! Nothing! I understand that the PS may be happy and satisfied with little, but we don't, we have more ambition. We are not content with having nothing concrete, we want and demand the fulfillment of all the promises that were made to the Azores : from the prison establishment of Ponta Delgada to the Horta Airport, from the Observatory of the Atlantic to the Ribeira Grande team, from the meteorological radars to the submarine cables, from the PREIT(Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan) to the decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Victorian Beach. This budget, Mr Minister, only has acts of faith, it does not have a single number, except the number of articles referring to these investments. And a year ago, that's how it was. A year ago, we denounced this situation, an identical reality, in which investments were not quantified and we presented quantified amendments, which were rejected with the argument that the money was there and that we did not find it. But, Mr. Minister, last year, the money wasn't there, the projects didn't move forward and we continued on the zero stake, exactly as in 2016. The story repeats itself, as seen. They'll certainly say again that the money was there, but it wasn't. What is happening with the urgent problem of building the new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada is a disgrace, since already the admitted Minister of Justice will not be built during her term of office. The same is true of the expansion of Horta Airport. Article 59. it has an extraordinary writing, being almost needed a translator to realize what is written there. I therefore ask you clearly, Minister : will the Government or not comply with what has been decided in resolution in this House, i.e. extend the Horta Airport track to a minimum of 2050 meters long and build the safety areas required by international standards? This is the answer we want to have, black and white, because that wording is very unhappy. And we also want to know how, when and by what means investments will be implemented, because we demand that what has been promised be fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u262	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, the issues of science, technology and higher education are one of the key priorities of the Government, which takes on a special prominence in 2019. As I mentioned earlier in 2019, the science budget programme has a boost of EUR 37 million. The strengthening of higher education institutions, taking into account the average of the reinforcements of the other budget programmes, is superior. From the beginning of the legislature, we have defined a very clear commitment to scientific employment, with the creation of 5000 scientific jobs. This bet has a large budget translation in 2019, but it is clear that we must continue to work in this and other areas on issues that identify, in the areas of precariousness, job stability and the creation of new opportunities. The truth is that university and science create wealth. contrary to what Mrs Inês Domingos considers, who only sees wealth created in the private sector, universities, schools, hospitals are sources of national wealth creation, and it is clear that, for this reason, otherwise, they have to be supported and will continue to be strengthened in the State Budget for 2019. It is true, Mrs Inês Domingos, that the productivity of non-financial companies in Portugal, according to data disclosed by the INE last week, grew 6 %. I assume and I understand that the honourable Member uses the numbers that give him the most appropriate reason for his argument. But the truth is that the productivity of Portuguese companies in 2016 and 2017 grew 6 %. It is also true that in 2017 investment increased by more than 9 % in Portugal — 9 %! It's not a small thing, Your Honor! We have to go back many years to find a dynamic of total public and private investment in Portugal over 9 %. It is also true, Mrs Deputy, that Portuguese exporting companies again had an exceptional year in 2017 when exports in Portugal grew far above the growth of international trade. In other words, exporting companies in 2017 created wealth and created a business volume far more than the one that had occurred in the past. It is also true, Mrs Deputy, that the COMPETE (Operational Competitiveness and Internationalisation Programme) programme has raised 9 billion euros of private investment — 9 billion euros! These are government measures that have an impact on the economy. Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa states that support for Madeira's hospital has only EUR 96 million in the Budget as if EUR 96 million was not a very significant value in solidarity with Madeira's regional health service. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] And in the question of interest rate, Mrs Deputy, it is very simple : the Government of the Republic proposed that the regional government should apply a rate exactly equal to the average cost of financing of the Republic, and that rate was rejected by the Regional Government of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u264	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u265	I told the honourable Member, and very well, that we can fool some for a while, but not all for a long time. Now, this can apply exactly to Madeira PSD and the accounts you have made about Madeira PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, I had the opportunity, in my reply to Mrs Lara Martinho, to explain some of the financial dimensions of these relations and will now end, saying that we have a kind of schism here. In fact, we have a new version of that row that Ivone Silva did so well with « olivia couture » and « Olivia patrona », but now within the PSD bench. We have the PSD you want to spend and we have the PSD you want to save. We have the PSD that wants to increase expenditure—and has a very long list of measures for expenditure—... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and we have the PSD that wants to reduce taxes. But everyone, like 'Olivia Patroa' and 'Olivia Costureira', wanted the structural deficit to be lower. Now, we have a month ahead of you to explain how this alchemy is done, and perhaps at the end of this process we can come to a clearer view of the true intentions and the analysis that you make of the State budget. I confess to you that, from the questions you have asked me today, I have not been able to draw any conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u266	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u267	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we begin the discussion of the State Budget for the year 2019. A Budget that has a history, but presents itself with little future. If we return to the Prime Minister's 2015 tenure speech, the word, which claimed to be honored, presented as main guidelines « the relief of the middle class fiscal asphyxiation », « the public investment bet » and « the guarantee of public goods and services ». We know today that, with regard to the relief of fiscal suffocation, the government is proposing the greatest tax burden ever. Today we know that the public investment bet has not yet reached the 2015 levels. And today we know that, as regards the guarantee of better public services, any contact with reality exposes this intention. [[PSD applause.]] That is to say, today we know how valuable the political word of the Government and of Antonio Costa is: it is little, it is very little. But, Mr President, we recognize that this is a coherent and predictable budget. It is consistent, because it maintains the policy of governance in view, at the coast, of the lack of ambition and of the concessions to the extreme left that turn it into a blanket of flaps. And it is predictable, because it does not alter the way in which the government has used us: it favours the narrative of illusionism to the detriment of the commitment to the real. It creates new taxes, increases existing taxes (about 11 taxes), increases structural expenditure and does not advocate a single structural reform capable of transporting Portugal to the levels of development that we all want. But yes, yes, it is a budgetary instrument loaded with words of order to use in an election year. Mr President, let us start with the macroeconomic scenario and we can say, in a word, that it is a State budget without ambition and without consolidation. A State budget without ambition because, if we look at growth, it reveals all its lack of ambition. The government gave up growing when it ran to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, when it resigned to rule for the country and chose to rule for political subsistence, when it gave up gambling in competitiveness. A lack of ambition for a government that announces to grow less in the coming year than it has grown in 2018. The geriatrics remain in trusted conversation what is lacking in ambition. [[PSD applause.]] There is a lack of ambition for a government that settles in the line of Europe and the euro area. If we compare ourselves with countries that have had rescue programmes equal to or similar to ours, this is the result of the four-year 2016 to 2019: Ireland grows, in accumulated, 22, 5 %; Spain grows by about 12 %; Cyprus grows by about 15 %; and Portugal grows by about 8 %. Words for what? ...This is the ambition of the socialist government. It is a State budget without consolidation. As far as the deficit is concerned, the country has not yet realized whether to rely on the words of the Government or on government accounts. If we pay attention to the accounts, then the deficit increases; if we trust the words, we have a deficit without any effective budgetary consolidation. It gives the feeling that we have a finance minister who is President of the Eurogroup, and in the accounts that is what is interesting and that Parliament will vote, we have a finance minister who is also Minister of the Left Block and the Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] More than 500 million euros separate the President of the Eurogroup from the Minister of Finance of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. The fact is that in any case the government fails to consolidate the budget. But when we should be taking advantage of the economic cycle, taking advantage of the low price of oil for many years, the low interest rate policy of the European Central Bank and the growth of our partners, what does the government do? The government is taking no advantage of the opportunity and making a faggot cigarette. It is famous the phrase that says « the roof does not look in winter». It's a real wasted opportunity. It can therefore be said that, in this budget, the lack of ambition echoes even the lack of consolidation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget for 2019, because it does not bring growth, nor does it take care of as due to public accounts, is also ephemeral. It is ephemeral because it does not encourage saving; it is ephemeral because it does not generate wealth; and it is ephemeral because it does not promote saving. It is a kind of « Budget elastic pill», to use, spend and throw away. It has zero savings stimulus, zero fiscal breakdown, zero business support and entrepreneurship promotion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get out of the numbers, let's go up to date with the Portuguese and see how the State Budget responds to 2019. This budget is from the Government of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u268	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u269	... but it is also the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. But I want to make it clear: this is the choice of the Socialist Party, which has abandoned the political centre and joined the roots of the Portuguese Parliament. [[PCP protests.]] Yeah, yeah! The radicals and the Socialist Party, who do not stop from leaving public services at risk, who abandon the National Health Service, who degrade the public school, who degrade the areas of sovereignty, who play in the culture and early reforms, which they do, but the truth is that they do not. And to all this, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block close their eyes, letting themselves be deceived. Some, because they thus saw a handful of unions saved; others, because they share the crumbs of power. The Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party make inconsequential indignation of the old maxim of «beguilty me that I like». [[PSD applause.]] Where is the well-known indignation of the Left Block, when Antonio Costa constantly postpones the recovery of the pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João? Oh, my God! Where is the power of the Portuguese Communist Party, when Antonio Costa does not comply with what he committed to the teachers? Oh, my God! Where is the outrage of the Left Block when the government abandons the investment on the railway? Oh, my God! Where is the power of the Portuguese Communist Party, when Antonio Costa does not fulfill the promised in relation to the financing of the new hospital in the Autonomous Region of Madeira? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Left Block and Communist Party English pretends to be opposition,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u270	What do you want me to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u271	... but tomorrow, with all the Members standing—we need to know whether this time it is with or without applause—you will also approve the State budget for 2019. [[PSD applause.]] It is that this government exists by choice of the Socialist Party. It is that this government exists for the political survival of Dr. António Costa, but it has the convivent complicity of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, you hypothesize the future and exchange it for budgetary electoralism.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u272	Montenegro to take care of!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u273	In fact, they exchange the future for your political and party leadership. This State Budget is a sort of last letter to António Costa trying to win the elections he has never won. [[PSD applause.]] In short, you prefer the electoral state to the social state. [[PSD applause.]] Never, as today, has so much been invested in public school, but school books are offered to the rich. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] Never, like today, have the areas of sovereignty been left to the mine and the security of the Portuguese concerned, but they are changed by ministers and we solve the problem. Never, as ever, was so hypothesized by the National Health Service, but they chose 35 hours. Mr. Prime Minister, there is a real country and there is your political country. There is the country that, in the political discourse, turned the page of austerity and there is the Real Country that, in three years, already has as many strikes as those that the Country has witnessed in four years, in an emergency period.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u274	With the fight, the country is advancing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u275	There is the political country that announces changes to the ages of early reforms and its methodology—no one has yet understood how or why—and there are Portuguese, some without any other income, who wait more than six months for their old-age pension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u276	There is the political country that swears to lower taxes and the Portuguese that pay the opposite when they go to the gas bombs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u277	So, where are we staying?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u278	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This State budget does not see the page of austerity, mask it and do not prepare the future, postpone it. If there is an obsession in the State Budget for 2019, it is to try to get Antonio Costa to win, for the first time, legislative elections, or to put the country at risk again. It was not Dr. António Costa's obsession with himself, today we could have less tax burden, more and better economic growth, more and better public services, a fairer and more balanced territory. The Portuguese were the obsession of Dr. António Costa and today we were not talking again about the risks this Budget brings to the future of Portugal. Portugal was your concern and the State budget was not this. This, Mr. Prime Minister, is very little! This is a maximum tax burden for public services at least! This is a total lack of strategy for sustained growth! This is a real wasted opportunity without consolidation and without ambition! This is electoralism with no vision of the future! This is political ‘umbiguism’! For all this, because of this and because it is the opposite of this that we want, the country can count on the PSD, but not the government! [[Greetings from the PSD, with Members standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u279	Two Members have signed up to request clarification from Mr Hugo Soares. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u280	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Soares, what is little is the intervention that brings us here today,... [[PSD laughter and protests.]] ... because, at the height of the inconsistencies that the PSD has used us, it can also say that there is no consolidation of the public accounts, but that the consolidation of the public accounts is made to the account of the public services and the mine of the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u281	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u282	In fact, he mentioned and cited the same inconsistency on other occasions as, on a very recent occasion, he said, in conclusion of this reflection, that Portugal stopped in time. And we ask ourselves: Portugal is equal to what was in the time of Passos Coelho, in the time when his party governed? in this case, it means that this government does the same as its party did when it was in government, i.e. to consolidate public accounts on behalf of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u283	The wages... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u284	... wages, pensions, labour rights. in this case, we would expect the PSD to vote in favour. Or, then, the honourable Member has allowed himself to be disturbed by the shortcomings that he has of the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u285	He's stopped in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u286	...and the misses you have of the troika. It is that, in fact, the country has moved forward, the country has made a great deal of progress in relation to the times when Steps Coelho governed with the PSD program, the CDS program and the troika program. The country has moved so far that the PSD has become disoriented. It's just that the PSD, yes, is stopped in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u287	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u288	Because you're disoriented, you don't know what to say. You cannot say that the Budget is wasteful because the PSD dreams of the zero deficit, with which Mr. Minister for Finance also dreams,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u290	... but he cannot say that he is austere because he well knows what an austerity budget is—he passed four against the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u291	No, twelve budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u292	You know what budgets are that cut salaries and pensions and, therefore, you know how to distinguish them from the budget we have here today. The PSD knows that none of these versions are true—neither the Budget is costly, nor the Budget is austerity—but it alternates the lies to see if any of them glue, because it knows perfectly that it is disorientated. In view of this budget, there are only two possible criticisms: that of those who think that the Budget can go further in investment and in rights and that of those who think that the Budget has been far too far in the recovery of rights and investment. The PSD is not at a crossroads in this regard, the PSD is in a alley! It is that everything they said was impossible happened, a majority who said it was impossible happened to do what the PSD said would be the Devil and that improved the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese without creating a financial warehouseddon. So, in front of the alley you are in, the only way the PSD finds is to walk back.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u293	We're waiting for the pass vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u294	Going back would mean recognizing that the PSD always wanted to go beyond the troika, it was beyond the troika and, even without the troika, it still wants to cut wages, pensions, it still wants precariousness to be the rule at work, it still wants privatization and private concessions to be the rule of public services. The PSD wants to walk back to finish, to finish what started and that couldn't finish when this parliamentary majority was formed. [[PSD protests.]] I ask you, honourable Member: looking today at the country with what has already been possible to reverse cuts and income recovery, increase in pensions, everything this budget guarantees, what does it have no future? It is a resounding recipe of austerity — what the PSD wants, but it does not have the courage to present because it knows that the country already knows that another way is possible — or is it what this Budget represents, a sign of the future? This budget is not yet the one we would like to have, but at least it is a sign of defeat of the right and defeat of the troika ideas, which are those that the PSD defends but does not have the courage to present to the country. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u295	Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u296	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, listen to Mr Hugo Soares always asks us whether this speech will no longer move the PSD, in particular the PSD bench,... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] ...of what, exactly, to whom I intended to attack, which was the government and the PS. when listening to this speech by Mr Hugo Soares, we doubt whether it's RA TV or RTP Memory! Is that what you're talking about? In fact, what you said here was an attempt to return and go back, which is, in fact, not possible. Neither the Portuguese would ever forgive, nor the PS, nor anyone else in the Executive, who would turn back at the times when Mr Hugo Soares tried to say that they were good. The Portuguese don't forget and don't want to go back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u297	I want to know who votes for the Steps!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u298	Moreover, we speak of a deficit of 0, 2 % and, when we discuss 0, 2 %, we have a total lack of awareness about what we are talking about. So, isn't this absolutely marginal? When we were discussing the first budget of this government, in 2016, didn't they say that the Devil would take all companies out of Portugal, that they would run away, that there would be no investment, that there would be no economic growth? Now, Portugal has grown consecutively for 19 quarters and in convergence with the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A growth that represented a 16 % recovery of the wealth produced in Portugal, an increase in the available income of families of 18 %, a tax relief that allows Portuguese today to have less than 1000 million tax charges. All of this with certain accounts, with less than 7500 million deficits than in 2015, all made responsibly, with correct accounts. These are facts! This is so seen of any prism! But listening today, and having spent all these years, the PSD, as well as some of the proposals that have been ventilated today, here, and that at the start will arise in the specialty, it is urgent to ask what they want. Which sectors would sacrifice in the name of obsession by such a strategy of austerity and impoverishment that, as you have seen, do not give up? Who wouldn't pay the salaries? How far would they have led the blockade to growth, to the increase in the minimum wage? How many more thousands of Portuguese would they send to emigrate? Who would stand back in the name of the recognizedly expired strategy of the PSD Government and the right-wing CDS which the Portuguese rejected? What we know today, and that we also knew in 2015 and when this path was designed, is that, yes, there is an alternative to the right. There is an alternative that is based on everything this government has done: to return income, to stimulate the economy, to support the weakest, to raise the minimum wage, to raise pensions, to raise the family allowance and to extend the scope of social inclusion benefit. There is a path that gives hope and encouragement to the country and which mobilizes for a better future, to continue to grow. For two and a half years — and until the INE came to say that this was not true — it was impossible to prove it, but it is now possible to demonstrate that in 2016 the economy grew more than in 2015, i.e. 1, 9 %, and grew more in 2017, i.e. 2, 8 %. And it has always been in line with the euro zone. In fact, in that period it was still possible for all rating agencies to withdraw Portugal from the rating of waste. Still today, electoralism and fiscal burden continue to be praised. Electoralism, because the PSD wants to escape its political options and, as a wolf dressed as a lamb, does not say where, how and what choices it would make, just says that it wants everything for everyone. On the one hand, either the zero deficit, on the other hand, or all the investments and some more, but at the same time, you do not know very well how you would reconcile all this. At the same time, he tries to cast confusion on Portuguese when he claims an excessive tax burden. Now, in this framework, the tax burden represents what the Portuguese know: they know that they are no longer taxes and taxes but rather more income, more wages, more and better jobs and their contributions and, with this, the fulfilment of the PS's electoral commitment to the Portuguese by returning the cuts in wages that you have implemented during your governance. Yes, the Portuguese are better, they live better, and they want to keep living better. The Government and the Portuguese do so in partnership, without electoralism, with a conservative, prudent budget, as did the previous ones and, therefore, it was possible to make four budgets and not twelve. We have always been aware of the difficulties, but seeking to give our country a better future, investing in people and in people's quality of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u299	We want to know who votes for the Steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u300	the PSD now has to be sincere and transparent and, for once, tell the Portuguese where they want to cut. In health, withdrawing the 1000 million that the PS government has restored from the court they had previously made? Or in the more than 500 million euros that SNS will receive in 2019? Or are they trying to cut into the sustainability of social security? Or in the family allowance, which benefits about 130,000 children per year who, on the first three steps only, benefited from annual increases between € 850 and € 1300? Or, now, in the solidarity supplement for the elderly or in the freeness of school textbooks, what did you ask about the rostrum? For all this, here lies the challenge: be honest with the Portuguese, take your choices. Say what you think! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u301	To reply, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u302	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions and comments you made in my speech. I wanted to start by responding to the Socialist Party Member, Jamila Madeira. She said — and well — that « Portugal has grown 19 consecutive quarters». If the honourable Member makes the accounts, being 19 consecutive quarters, now see when economic growth has begun! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] I know you usually don't do well in the accounts, but the honourable Member knows that 19 consecutive quarters throw us back there, for the national rescue government, for national salvation, for the government led by the PSD. He ran away from her mouth to the truth! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It's just that you got the pack of a growing country and 2016 was a lost year. Mrs. Deputy, trying to please, said that when she listened to me from that rostrum, she did not know if she was watching RTP Memory or ARTV. Mrs. Member, I was actually watching ARTV. In fact, I was just watching and listening to me, but there is one thing I want to say to you: if you ask the Portuguese, I am sure that what they don't want to see in RTP Memory is the government that the honourable Member has supported and that has led Portugal to bankruptcy. With this episode of RTP Memory, the Portuguese want to end at once. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Joana Mortágua — basically, the question is the same as those of the two Members — asked what is the official narrative of the Socialist Party in the budgetary debate, which was tried yesterday, moreover, by the Prime Minister. In other words, how can the PSD, on the one hand, say that the budget is electoralist and then say that it does not make budgetary consolidation? Oh, my God! Now, then, are we spending and we should save more, but at the same time, do you think that the deficit should be smaller? Oh, my God! Yes, Mr. Prime Minister! It is all a problem of strategy that Mr. Prime Minister does not have, that his government does not have, because he is imprisoned on his own option to the Bloc and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u303	It is called a strategy for growth, called structural reforms, it is called avoiding the reversals that led to 2016 being a lost year from the point of view of investment and growth. [[It's not like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u304	That's right, that's right! Our options were all contrary to what you have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u305	I'm glad they say it, until it's all over! ...Your options were all the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u306	You have doubts... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u307	Your options were all the opposite! We need to get to 19 hours and 5 minutes to hear that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u308	All these parts are music to my ears. It's not worth it! You would understand, by any chance, that someone on this bench or some Portuguese did not agree with the far-reaching measures for the recovery of income that you are presenting — that we have already been doing! — increase in social benefits? Oh, my God! Clearly, there is no Portuguese who disagrees, nor do we on this bench! The problem is not that, the problem is the whole strategy behind it. The problem is there is no strategy that puts us with the ambition to grow what we should be growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u309	Your options were all the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u310	This is your last State budget. It is the last budget of the State of a three-party legislature, which the Socialist Party's leaders felt should be that way. There's a challenge I wanted to make you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u311	Take a good look at what's going on! Look the Rabbit Steps will end up voting on us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u312	Be as true as presenting your electoral proposals as we were in 2015 and, if that happens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u313	You're going to vote on us! Is that what you're talking about? We've won votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u314	... may happen the same as in 2015 and you lose the elections again. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u315	The following is the speech by Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u316	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the proposals for the last fiscal year of this Parliament. at this time, it is fair to stress that one of the main vertices of the good results of this governance is the performance of the economy and, in particular, the decisive contribution of companies and entrepreneurs in Portugal. Today it is very clear that there is a line that separates this government from the previous one. While the right has ignored the role of economic policies in changing market conditionalities, placing almost blindly on its functioning and balance, leaving businesses to economic cycles, the Socialist Party's Government has introduced new options that have provided companies with the right conditions to produce more and create more jobs. Mr President, we are already going with two new leaders on the Portuguese right, but little or nothing has changed and nothing has been brought back to the political debate. Facts and reality deny systematic accusations, but PSD and CDS persist in putting their heads in the sand and searching for the black swan that gives them an impressive reason for their old and tired speech. Indeed, without the implementation of an economic policy aimed at promoting the productivity and competitiveness of companies, as well as the application of anticyclical measures, very difficult macroeconomic results — whether of product growth or of deficit control, or of job creation — would have had the expression we know today and which is completely irrefutable. Mr President, it was the growth of the product that allowed gains in the deficit, the huge reduction in unemployment, but also a better and fairer income distribution policy. But it is essential not to forget that, without the positive and determined response of Portuguese entrepreneurs to the shock of new policies, the results could not be so expressive. In fact, the growth of GDP, which has beaten records and even exceeded the boldest forecasts, stems from the economic growth of companies. In turn, this economic growth of companies depends, I repeat, on its productivity and competitiveness, and, of course, on the establishment of a stable and consistent economic climate to generate positive expectations that attract good results. The Government of the Socialist Party learned from the first moment that it had to intervene to introduce policies for companies and did so without hesitation, launching on the ground a wide range of solutions that allowed to counter the enormous difficulties that still persisted by the end of 2015. at that time, in 2015, the Government of the Socialist Party raised the sleeves, showing that companies need the state to contribute to a favorable, stable and reliable environment, where it is possible to generate credibility to continue with innovation and investment. It was necessary to combat the decapitalisation of companies in order to ensure their survival. Although many of them had a difficult financial situation, they had products and services capable of competing on the market and ensuring jobs. Capitalizing companies today is one of the aspects that most mobilizes the efforts of this government, in order to halt the bleeding of the productive tissue generated between 2011 and 2015. It was also essential to strengthen innovation as a critical element for increasing productivity. Among several measures, the technological centers spread across the country were used in order to transfer knowledge, generating economic gains. at the same time, the government promoted the importance of industry, especially in its role for exports, introducing the digitisation of the economy and replacing the Portuguese industry in the front line of this revolution 4.0. The government also knew that the ideas of thousands of entrepreneurs who needed a push to create jobs and wealth needed to be taken advantage of. Entrepreneurship does not emerge without the creation of the right environment and support, and that is what is being done. The investment, as a determining variable to sustain product growth, needed decisive support and the government had no doubt to accelerate the delivery of financial resources to companies, which were available but stopped at PT 2020 and which needed to be injected into the business fabric. In addition, it was also necessary to push for the simplification of the Public Administration, declaring a war without quartel to the costs of context to help business productivity. It was also necessary to support internationalization, a critical factor for market expansion and to dynamize exports. That is why the Government has concentrated its efforts on this issue so that the contribution of exports will ensure the sustainability of GDP growth. These solutions today have a concrete and quantifiable expression in various programmes that are under way, showing absolutely decisive results for the macroeconomic context and for the lives of Portuguese people. The Capitalisation Programme, the Interface Programme, the Startup Programme Portugal, the Internationalisation Programme, introduced dozens of measures to support the performance of companies in the various competitiveness factors. These measures must also be combined with the contractual investment regime, the Simple, the reduction of VAT in restoration, the tax benefits, among many other initiatives aimed at creating the right context for Portuguese business fabric to obtain the results of which we all pride ourselves. If in 2015 we found a depressed country, these 3 years have brought us results that give us hope for the future. along this legislature we obtained the largest GDP growth, the lowest deficit in modern Portuguese history, the largest private investment growth, the highest value of exports and, no less important, significant and significant increases in employment. at the same time, consumer confidence and economic climate, indices that have shown improvements that have not been seen for many years, reflect the effectiveness of policies and the ability to achieve objectives. It is in this context that we reach the State Budget for 2019, with the assurance that public policies must be maintained to ensure a business environment that enables the maintenance of economic growth and employment growth and that contributes to the reduction of the deficit without jeopardizing the fair distribution of income and the social policy that is being implemented. This is what we are proposing again in the 2019 Budget: continuity in the effort to create the positive expectations that we need for companies to produce and create jobs. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The last budget of the Parliament is not an end in itself, it is a path that must be pursued to avoid losing the gains and achievements that the Portuguese have achieved in the last three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To return to the past is to return to the time of fear, hopelessness and obscurantism. It may even be that which is right whether it is, but you can be sure that this is not what we want and that is against which we will always fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u317	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u318	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Carlos Pereira. I look very much at having him with us in this parliamentary debate on the next State budget. After listening to the intervention he has now given — for the time being there seemed to be a sort of mini-commitment of his party — a few words came to my mind last week regarding the capacity for independence and impartiality, but this became clear in his statement. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, surely the last thing I would like to talk about in this parliamentary debate would be about Madeira, but that is precisely what I wanted to ask you about, even because the Madeirans also demand a response from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on a number of issues. Mr. Carlos Pereira, we see in the outside world what the consequences of traditional parties are for ignoring entire parts of their citizens, we know what the consequences are when the struggle for power is an end in itself and not a means to rule better, unlike what Mr. Carlos Pereira referred to there from that rostrum. This responsibility in Portugal is first of all yours, Mr. Retreat about who rules, about the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. rather than what the responsibility and sense of state would dictate, your government is setting up, conceals and, in parallel with the budgetary captivating it does in the whole country, in this Budget, for purely electoralist reasons, captivates approximately 120 million euros in transfers due to and promised to Madeira. Let us see how this whole public scene is set up, which is supposed to contribute to the construction of the new Madeira hospital, but then in practice it is radically below 50 % promised and, at the end of the accounts, what we have is 13 % of the total value of the work. But the PSD will provide an opportunity to rectify these values in the Budget. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Carlos Pereira, is your party willing to support something that has nothing to do with party ideology, something much more elementary: to keep the word not yet honored by the Prime Minister as compared to 50%? Mr. Carlos Pereira, are you still a figure of this farce? The Government claims that it decreases the interest rate of the loan to the region, but then we have the perverseness of your proposal, a true "bear embrace" for Madeira taxpayers, forcing us to channel savings for the capital itself more quickly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good to have some memory. What happened when the troika, in 2013, lowered the interest rate of the loan to Portugal! Is that what you're talking about? Did the international creditors impose a similar criterion! Is that what you're talking about? No, no, no. Not even the troika was as far away as the socialists! Those who go beyond the troika, in fact, are the socialist rulers. Mr. Carlos Pereira, are you still a figure of this farce? It says the saying that "to Caesar's wife it is not enough to be, it must seem"... [[PS Protests and PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] ...and, with this Budget, we have precisely the opposite. It is not enough to say it, Mr President, it has to be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u319	Mr. Carlos Pereira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u320	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, thank you for your question. I just wanted to take one of the expressions you used : « you need to have memory». I think so too. We are perfectly in agreement and I believe that none of the Members here present, or no one at home, remember any promise that was fulfilled, or even made, to the Madeirans by the Coelho Pass Government, for four years, in which the only thing he did was an economic and financial adjustment plan that massacred the Madeirans, who massacred Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in view of my intervention, I believe that what you would have asked me is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brought to Parliament in the debate on the Budget a presentation and an intervention on a tribute to companies. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I think that was the question that you would like to have asked me, given what you have heard here today in this Parliament, and given what your fellow Members have said so much about companies and their importance. Well, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it absolutely essential that it has been the contribution of companies over the past three years to ensure that the objectives set by the Government have been those objectives. Companies have been able to respond in a very positive way to the incentives to the economic policies that the government has implemented to counter the agony that had been imposed over four years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u322	... between 2011 and 2015, to Portuguese companies. It was with the stimuli that this Government has implemented, whether in innovation or in investment, whether in support of exports, that it was possible to achieve extraordinary results from the point of view of economic growth but also from the point of view of the deficit and from the point of view of employment. This is the fundamental reason why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group pays this sincere tribute, which I believe must be associated by the PSD with Portuguese entrepreneurs and companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u323	We are moving on to a new intervention, this time by Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u324	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Perosel said to us that stonelayer in Penafiel: «The age of reform that exists, the 66 years, for us, is the age of death certificate, is not the age of reform». Men who started working at the age of 11, first with pickets and then with compressors, who destroyed their muscles, and breathing the silica that destroyed their lungs. For those men who extract the stones from the stones of Penafiel, this Budget brought good news: they become integrated into the miners regime, which ensures them a year in anticipation of the reform for every two years in the extraction of stone. It was worth the fight of them. It was worth our fight to give them an answer in this budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Lost in its painful self-destruction and without any proposal for the country, the right called this "electoralism". For the PSD and its television oracles, the integration of Penafiel's stones into the miners' regime is part of an electoral orgy. For the CDS and its dedicated commentators, the Penafiel stonemen were not justiceed, an election bonus was given. For Penafiel stoneworkers, as for public service workers, for poor pensioners, as for workers who earn the minimum wage, the arrogance of the PSD and the CDS is an offense. The right feels that, when any sector of society sympathizes with a measure of the Budget, it is a bad sign, because to the right, good budget is a budget that cuts social expenditure, it is a budget that cuts social rights, it is a budget that puts work. It was much more by conviction than by necessity that the right approved budgets like this. It was by conviction and not by distraction that the right ensured that the recovery of income would bring about the economic disaster or that the rise of the minimum wage would trigger unemployment. All wrong, all preconceived, no sense, always and only strategy of impoverishment. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] The left was right. We were right when we rejected the continuation of the policy of internal devaluation as a way out of the crisis. We were right when we were able to anticipate the elimination of austerity measures. We were right when we made an agreement to increase the national minimum wage. We were therefore certain when, in order to respond to a right that was always beyond the troika, we went beyond what was the commitment of the Socialist Party and added new achievements of rights, so that those who worked or worked could live better in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u326	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block did, in the negotiation of this Budget, what we demanded from those of us: we are fighting with the political force that has been given to us and with the rigour and work that has been stopped in the preparation of our proposals, for concrete measures that allow the vast majority of Portuguese to live better. Until the end of this document, we have worked, proposed, argued, negotiated. It was this determination that, in this Budget, cut in energy costs up to 5 % in 2019 and again in 2020 ; the decrease in the value of higher education tips ; the change in the limit of indebtedness of housing investment authorities ; the reduction of VAT in cultural events to 6 %; the reduction in the price of transport passes; the extraordinary increase in lower pensions, ensuring minimum increases of €6 and €10 in January ; the end in 2019 of the cut-off imposed by the sustainability factor in pensions of all people with 40 years of discount at the age of 60; the extension of the social unemployment allowance or the commitment to, for the first time, recognize the condition of informal caregiver. All electoralism, says the right. All economic reasonableness and social justice, we say. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This is therefore a budget that returns income and gains rights. This solemnly irritates the right that, without saying, cries out, for the last time, that what the Budget gives with one hand withdraws with two. It's fake and it's enough to do the bills. The set of new measures negotiated on the left for the recovery of people's income in 2019 amounts to EUR 465 million. They add the effects in 2019 of the measures we negotiated before, such as the updating of pensions, which combined an extraordinary increase in order to make justice to lower pensions, the elimination of the overtax of the IRS or the change of steps. Total: a little over EUR 1000 million. In order to balance, in terms of taxes, there is the duplication of the consumer credit seal tax, the increase of the excise duty and of the various excise duty rates. Total: EUR 125 million. That is to say, on the side of the increase in people's incomes, 1000 million; on the side of the increase in the tax burden, 125 million. The mantra on the right, which is going to be looked for with "taxes and taxis" which is being returned to people, is a lie. One more! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on our way here, we learned that the recovery of income and the extension of rights are not just a compensatory appendix to the sacralization of the zero deficit. What the road ahead shows us is that the recovery of income from work, wages and pensions is itself an economic strategy, which makes the economy grow, which is condition and does not add to the consolidation of public accounts and which makes our society and our economy more cohesive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u328	If the country is better because those who worked or worked have more income at the end of the month, it is not because Mário Centeno or António Costa exhibit Brussels less deficit at the end of the year. That is why insisting on the fiction that it is possible to meet the absurd European requirement of primary surpluses for 20 years will lead us to wrong economic and social strategies. The structural problem of debt remains a grip on the right choices of economic and socially sustainable growth. To avoid the equation in the front is to choose the emptying of the growth and cohesion policies that we have gone on for the last three years. The challenge we face is to follow up and strengthen these policies and to reject the invitations that we are interested in here in front of us, because it is enough. Budgeting and not executing can give rise to smiles in the Eurogroup, but each of the EUR 2200 million that were budgeted and not executed in 2018 was a euro that was essential to replace obsolete equipment in the National Health Service, and it was not used ; it was a euro that was indispensable to advance with the unsuited works, to give a minimum of dignity to prison establishments, and it was not used ; it was a euro that was indispensable to invest in a railway that deteriorates in structure and in service every day that passes, and it was not used. For the Left Block, budgetary implementation must achieve all that cohesion and growth is enshrined in this document and cannot be a technique for freezing these policies. The choice of the vain glory of the zero deficit undermines the right choices of social cohesion and the robustness of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we make choices and answer for them. We have been firmly on the side of policies that make social justice the main support of growth. in this budget, we have been able to take new steps in this direction. With all the limitations he exhibits, it was worth it. The Penafiel Stones know that this is the case, as workers who see the increase in minimum wage or relief in the IRS know; as students who will for the first time have a reduction in propines know; as families who will for the first time have a reduction in the bill of light; as informal caregivers who have jointly devoted their whole life to someone know; as pensioners who have seen these years updating their pension that, far from what is necessary, is a little more fair. They're our people. To every extent that we negotiate in this Budget, as in every day of this Parliament, it is for them that we respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u329	Mr President, you have a request for clarification from Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u330	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought the Left Block was here today to apologize to the Portuguese. [[BE's protests.]] Otherwise, let's see: the parties that, in the past, torn their clothes, marched against the degradation of public services, despite the troika conditioning the country's options, are the same instruments of public investment, which have always been against the rules of the Stability Pact and — let's stop! — they now accept painful and gross cuts in the 2019 State budget, which will undoubtedly cause economic backlogs and delays in social progress. I'm asking the ladies. Left Block Members How will this 2019 State Budget be voted on. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this short budget in public investment is the lowest ever. in this Parliament, there is EUR 1500 million below that executed in 2015. It has record captivating—to date more than 500 million more than in the previous legislation. UTAO, including, has already shown that this State budget conceals a definitive captivating of EUR 590 million. This is the budget of the State that puts the tax burden on ever, increasing indirect taxes, real excessive incomes of Mário Centeno, which cost the most unprotected. This is the State budget that injects EUR 850 million on banks' vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to see that the Left Block is blocked, accepting the garrots that are imposed every day by the captives of Mário Centeno in areas such as health, education and transport, which today work worse than during the time of the troika. You swallowed all the red lines you traced, from budget treaties to deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u332	... from the increase in public investment to the reduction of taxes, from « not more than € 1 for the bank» to cuts in the excessive revenues of EDP — after all, they still gave it more than 180 million tax bills — from the end of the captives to the reduction of indirect taxes. The gentlemen. Members of the Left Block are enjoined on the political solution they are making possible. This is no more than a budget for the facade of management, because the real budget is that of the captives that suffocate the social state and the economy. Thus, we have hospitals in rupture, paralysed public transport and collapse, barracks and looting countries, and you are responsible for all this. The Budget was discussed in a sort of auction, « potatoes to me, potatoes to you », and even the NAP was entitled to some migalhas. They promised a lot about the reduction of energy VAT, but after all « the mountain has waged a rat ». [[PCP protests.]] The left prolongs austerity, making it perpetual and infinite, now in the form of captive austerity, as there is no memory. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The Budget of Costa and Centeno cannot give any more answers than the salary sheet that sustains the socialist electorate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u333	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u334	The Left Block was bought by a "leaf dish", pretending to be concerned about the poorest Portuguese, but glued to the Coast, abandoning nurses, teachers and police. [[Congrats from PSD Mr Rui Silva.]] The Left Block changed its convictions of the past by means of power and obeys, in the name of political survival. He protested, but then voted on the budget of the maximum tax burden for minimum public services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u335	You've already noticed that it's the Yellow Lion that's giving orientation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u336	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u337	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, I would like to express with great sympathy the concern that it shows with the firmness of our convictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u338	This looked like a sword duel!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u339	In fact, I am aware that, of course, you are very interested in our convictions and our firmness. So there is no falsehood in your remarks—you can only — and I want to congratulate you for that. [[BE's laughs.]] I also want to reassure you that, because you are right about something, at least when you say that we are, to some extent, responsible for some of the contents of this budget. It is true, and we are proud of it. In fact, much of the issues I mentioned in the gallery, and I did not make an exhaustive list, is indeed the result of stopped work, a very difficult but very persistent work on our part, honoring our convictions, honoring those and those who gave us their political confidence and exactly doing what we were supposed to do, which was to bring to this Budget something more than what the Socialist Party's own program involved. I understand that the Member and the PSD Parliamentary Group feel uncomfortable, but this is a job that has some success on our part, not everything we wanted, but some success. That certainly bothers you and me, I must tell you, I am very happy with your discomfort. [[Laughs and applause from BE and the Member of the PS Santinho Pacheco.]] I would like to add a small point: Mr President, we have said that we have swallowed a number of toads, but this has come from those who over time have created so many toads, it is certainly a cause for some humor. [[EB's laughter and applause and PS's colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u340	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u341	Mr Telmo Correia, we want to know whether there is austerity or electoralism in this budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u342	The part of Mr. Deputy's speech on the ISP has already come to life!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u343	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the last budget of this Parliament and, therefore, the last budget of the Government of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u344	If it were in the previous government, it wouldn't be the last!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u345	The Minister of Finance, in his initial speech, faced with the ironic silence — or almost always ironic — of the Prime Minister, has classified this historical budget, but the history of this budget is that in fact it is a huge missed opportunity and a achievement, as we have rarely seen in this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u346	The budget, which in fact has the highest tax burden, is curiously also facing the greatest and highest level of discontent that we have ever seen in relation to a State budget. This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't help but be seen as very curious! It's funny, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, that the teachers are unhappy, that the doctors are unhappy, that the nurses are unhappy, that the police are unhappy, and - see, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — that this budget and this government are facing more protests and more strikes than the government that has had to deal with the troika and has managed to get out of this same situation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u347	That's a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u348	It's for the fight that the country is advancing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u349	And this, even with the leftmost parties within the government and the majority, Mr João Oliveira! I would like to talk now, essentially, about the area of sovereignty, that is, the area that has to do with what we could call'safety budget' or'security budget'. Four years after the troika, three and a half years after the Government of Rest, Balances, etc. , what would be expected, at the start, for the security forces, for the PSP (PSC) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard )? I say what was expected: it was expected that the replacement would, in fact, be made up to the last consequences;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u350	Against your will!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u351	... it was expected that the government would fulfill its promises and pay what it had to pay;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u352	Against your will!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u353	...it was expected that the government of this worthy facility; it was expected more justice; and above all, it was expected more consideration. But that is not what happens and, in this area, Budget is a disappointment, it is an achievement and it is a missed opportunity! Just a short time ago, the Minister of Finance said he wanted — I am quoting in color, but this was more or less — to return the dignity to those who contribute to the cause or to public functions. That is what Mr. Minister for Finance told us. I ask, Minister : have you returned that dignity? Have they returned the dignity and prestige of the functions to the security forces? But they came back, why didn't they? Oh, my God! If they returned, why did the doctors, nurses, teachers and police say they didn't give it? Oh, my God! Why do they say they're revolted? Oh, my God! Why do some of them say they have never been like that, nor at the height of the time of the troika? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u354	If they returned, why is this situation three and a half years after the troika? Oh, my God! Three and a half years later, we saw another two days ago a police protest, repeating what happened at the most difficult time and at the height of that reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u355	After all, it always happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u356	Obviously, the question to ask is very natural: who is right? Where's the truth? Who's talking about reality? Are they the government and the role of the Budget or are they those who are on the ground every day?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u357	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u358	Who's right? Is it the government or are the security forces, who tell us that they have a chaotic car park, a car park that is not renewed and that is the worst of the last 20 years, and that they have divisions and teams where there are no vehicles? Oh, my God! I give you the example of Sintra — and they say so, I am not — one of the largest municipalities in the country, which has 10 teams. You know the ladies and gentlemen. How many cars are there for these 10 teams? Two!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u359	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u360	Two cars for the entire municipality of Sintra! The whole bass of Lisbon, with the dynamics it has today, has a single car! They say: « We have 1000 vehicles stopped! We have facilities, such as the one where the Special Police Unit ( UEP) is, in the Help, or like the fateful staff of Bella Vista, in the Port, which are degraded and falling! » This is what they tell us, every day! Who's right? Is it them or is it the government? Clearly, who is right is they and who is missing the truth is the government! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But they say more: "We have bulletproof vests whose validity period has passed long ago, we have dissatisfaction with promotions, we have dissatisfaction with career progressions, we have supplements that the government did not want to pay, nor after a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court — nor did the government want to pay the supplements that were fair to be paid! » Is this the government that defends the law, defends the order and defends the security forces? Oh, my God! Obviously not! Everyone says the same thing: there are no effects, there are no means, there are no cars, computers are old or old-fashioned, they don't serve today. All say it: the prison guards, who talk about careers; the GNR, who says there is no progress; the SEF inspectors ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), who say they have no means and no effect; the investigators of the PJ ( Judicial Police ), who say the means do not arrive. Everyone says the same thing! The reality is this: the average age in the security forces—because the new entries are always in the middle of what should be left—is 46 years in the PSP and 48 years in the PJ, when it should be 35 or 36 years. This is the reality! In view of this, before these complaints and before what the government says, we ask again: are you all wrong? Are they all wrong? Are all these people wrong? Don't! The government is fooling them all! [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the truth and this is the reality! They are not the ones who are wrong, the government is fooling them all! Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can even admit that often this is not just a budgetary issue. We know that the Socialist Party and the parties on the left—maybe, in particular, the Left Block—have always dealt badly with the issues of security and authority. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is in some way a classic and, on the other hand, they never consider Portuguese security issues to be a priority. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we know the reasons why they deal badly with authority and security, which in some cases are very old. They deal badly with security, they deal badly with the problems of the authority and, often, Mrs Deputy, between the police and the « song of the bandit », they like more of the « song of the bandit» than of the protection of the police. This is the reality: always prefer the bandit, romantic or not! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] We remember, therefore, that they deal badly with this reality and with the protection of the citizens. And we've seen that many times! We saw this, for example, in the country's greatest tragedy, the fires of 2017. Therefore, when the government tells us this year was a success, because nobody died—as if the death of someone was normal or acceptable— having occurred in Monchique the largest forest fire in Europe, and every time it demonstrates that it has retired, altered or improved something, it is only demonstrating the extreme incompetence it had in 2017. Therefore, often the question is not only about the Budget, it is a matter of behaviour, choice and political attitude. This was the case in the largest political case that the country has faced most recently and that was, eventually, one of the most serious political cases we know in Portuguese democracy. I am obviously referring to the theft of Tanks, which could still add to the disappearance of the 57 Glock PSP. And if we're going to know a lot about Tanks, we still know very little about PSP Glocks, except they'll probably be in criminal hands. I am talking about the tank case to tell you only that it is of enormous gravity and that, contrary to what the whiteners of the situation want, it is not, strictly or essentially, a budgetary issue. As far as Tankos is concerned, the more we know, the more we realize what everyone knows at every moment in history, the more we see how far it has come and how far it may have reached the cover and the attempt to lower it first and de-responsibility afterwards, the more we feel that the CDS has, in good time, called for resignation and forced the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the more we know about Tanks we have the idea that, in most of the advanced democracies, Tanks would not justify the departure of a CEME ( Chief of the Army's Senior State), Tanks would not justify the resignation of the Minister, Tanks would justify that the government, all of it, was running, because it is unacceptable, it is a shame and it is absolutely unacceptable what we know about Tanks. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In conclusion, they may even say that Tanks started with a crime and that the crime would always exist, the crime would be indisputable — they may even tell me that — but then everything else, the stagnation, the operation, who knew, as it was done, this is another matter, that there is no crime anymore, that is political. You can say that the crime would be incontrovertible, however, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u361	This is to replace that part of the ISP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u362	No, Mr.António Filipe, it's not the ISP I'm talking about, it's the PSP. It is different and you should be concerned about the PSP situation because you know it well. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Rice from the PCP and BE.]] Mr. Antonio Filipe, leaving the PSP, when we talk about Tanks, when we talk about the crime... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u363	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, when we talk about Tankos, when we talk about the crime, when we talk about the one who is probably the biggest scandal of Portuguese democracy, when the numbers are unequivocal, when the judicial police, their inspectors and their researchers tell us that, in view of current circumstances,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... never as today there was a lack of effective, never as today there was a lack of means of investigation in the judicial police, I ask: Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? It is that in this area, what is happening is even more serious. What is happening in this area is extremely serious! When the number of officers in the judicial police is reduced, when the number of inspectors is clearly insufficient, when the means are clearly insufficient, when the equipment is obsolete and not useful, what are we suffocating? Is that the Judicial Police? Don't! What we are deliberately suffocating is the ability to fight crime, what we are suffocating is the capacity of the democratic rule of law to protect itself from crime and corruption, and this, regardless of people, is of enormous gravity, which, from our point of view, is absolutely unacceptable. I shall finish, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Members, saying that, for us, areas of sovereignty are essential, Portuguese security is fundamental. We do not accept, as this State Budget does, that it weakens the protection of Portuguese, that it weakens the security of Portuguese, that it does not give absolute priority to the areas of sovereignty and the security of Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u365	Mr Telmo Correia, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification from Mrs Isabel Santos. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u366	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, after we have attended here a performance by Mrs Assunção Cristos to spread purpurines by the Portuguese head, in an act of completely disproportionately electoralist, perfectly populist and perfectly demagogic promises,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... I see that Mr Telmo Correia, wanting to leave this path, ended up as the « general locked in his maze ». Mr President, when we talk about the situation of the PSP and the GNR, I remind you of the breakdown of resources during the PSD/CDS government and I remind you of the increase in resources and the increase in effectiveness during this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u367	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u368	And I remind you more: in this Parliament, 200 million euros of investment in equipment for PSP and GNR have been added! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This truth is harsh, Mr President, but it is the truth. Mr President, I am sorry that I have not heard you talk about the Portuguese, which also includes the effect of PSP and GNR. When they cut their salaries, when they cut their career prospects, when they cut their prospects for the future, where was it, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u369	Where was Mr. Deputy at the time of the cuts? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Besides everything else, sir, I'm sorry, because this isn't your style.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u370	Not supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u371	Today, the honourable Member has made a double escape: an escape on the way to the CDS, during this debate, and an escape to the debate, ending up in a deeply demagogic speech, populist and, in what has nothing to do with it, deeply alarmist. I'm sorry, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u372	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u373	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Santos, first of all, I thank you for the questions you have addressed to me and, with all sympathy and kindness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u374	No kindness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u375	...I will try to correspond more to what you might eventually think is my style. As far as possible, I will try to do so. However, I would like to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that I have not spoken about anything other than the Portuguese, the problems of the Portuguese and the question of the safety of the Portuguese. And, honourable Member, I would like to stress again this fundamental idea: if everything is as good, how can the government be confronted with this degree of discontent and this degree of protest? All I brought here was not only what I understand, I quoted, almost always Portuguese, I did not quote anonymous citizens, I quoted Portuguese in particular. I mentioned, for example, the Portuguese who presides over the largest Portuguese police union, the ASPP (Union Association of Police Professionals ), which is unsuspecting—is only the largest Portuguese police union— and says so alone...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u376	It's true! It is not there like the 'union' you create.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u377	Mr António Filipe, do you remember the interview the president of ASPP gave to the Sun newspaper?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u378	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u379	The police dog receives more than the paid agent; « The dog receives more than a paid agent! We're treated under the dog! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[The Minister for Finance's laughter.]] Don't laugh, Minister of Finance! You know why? Because these people who feel and say this — and this is true, because the leader of the ASPP is talking about gratified and if, in a gratified way, he makes himself accompany one dog receives more, and not because of the influence of Mr André Silva, who had nothing to do with it — are men and women who, unlike us, who are sitting here inside, risk their lives every day to defend the Portuguese, and risk their lives in the worst conditions. Therefore, they do not deserve our laughter, they deserve our respect, they deserve our support and they deserve our consideration. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But they're not the only ones who say it! Mrs Isabel Santos, does not think it relevant that, two days ago—and it was not even a union—that was not even the inspectors, because they said that the democratic rule of law might be involved—the National Director of the Judicial Police had said that he desperately needed more money, more men, and men with better wages? Oh, my God! Don't you worry about this, Mrs. Member? Several years after the troika, three and a half years after a government of wonders, which came to restore everything and to solve the problem of all, do you think it is reasonable that it did not? Oh, my God! It's not reasonable! The President of the Police Officers' Union ( SOP ) also said: "We are worse! Not even in the worst years of the troika was PSP treated like this». This is the truth, this is the reality! And if Mrs. Deputy wants to get into a little bit of a history channel logic, let me tell her that, in those years, when everything was very difficult, when it was necessary to cut everywhere,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u380	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u381	... there was a ministry where it was not cut off, on the contrary, there was a ministry where the increase was always maintained, which was the Ministry of Internal Administration, and very well, because it is necessary to make choices and you need to have priorities. Moreover, it is the story of the liberals and the less liberals. And I tell you one thing, Mrs. Member, I am not liberal, I have never been or wanted to be, but there is something we should all agree on: the area that should be priority and where we should not cut is the function of sovereignty and security of the Portuguese. Therefore, it is strange that they are so discontented that they are so forgotten and feel so humiliated and so revolted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u382	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u383	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The State Budget for 2019 incorporates a set of positive measures that correspond to new advances in the replacement and acquisition of rights and income. We refer to measures such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, at a minimum of €10 or €6, for the third consecutive year ; the free payment of school textbooks in all 12 years of compulsory schooling; the end of the special payment on behalf of micro and small enterprises; the extension of the conditions of access to reform by workers with long careers; the reduction of the cost of electricity and natural gas; the provision of extraordinary support to long-term unemployed; the extension of the family allowance for children between 3 and 6 years old; the reduction of public transport costs; the reduction of propines in higher education; the reduction of support for family farming and crafts; the purchase of railway and river service vessels; the reduction of VAT in cultural shows; the strengthening and strengthening of support for disability. In addition to these measures, the Government must also carry out previous commitments, including the counting of service time in the special careers of the Public Administration — teachers, security forces and services professionals, health professionals and careers of justice — and the hiring of staff indispensable to the normal functioning of public services or the eradication of precariousness in the Public Administration. We also stress the statement by Mr. Minister of Finance today in this debate to give way to the commitment he had already made with the CFP, to eliminate the increase in the ISP, made in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the State budget proposal incorporates positive measures, it is no less true that it also faces constraints. Obstacles resulting from the options of the PS and its government, which limit, or even prevent, the full response to the problems of people and the country. in this proposal for the State Budget for 2019, the Government maintains its option for the accelerated reduction of the deficit by setting a target of 0, 2 %. It is less than 5 tenths than the 2018 deficit, tenths that, together with the many with whom the country previously could not count, will lack for public investment, for the improvement of public services and social functions of the State in health, education, social protection, culture, housing, transport. Tens will be left to accept the CFP proposals, which will respond to problems in these and other areas. Yes, sir. Members, the option of the PS, but also of the PSD and the CDS, to accept the constraints and impositions of the European Union and the euro, in particular with regard to the deficit, has consequences : it impedes the replacement of rights and incomes withdrawn by the former Government, limits the ability to acquire and assert new rights, prevents the response to the serious structural problems of the country. In the state budget proposal for 2019, the Government insists on the illusion that the debt problem is controlled and that the multiple external factors, which condition their evolution, will always have a favourable development. In 2019, public debt, measured as a percentage of GDP, may even drop some percentage points but external disturbances, which our country does not control, may again trigger debt for exponential growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u386	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u387	In reality, Portugal remains today, as in the past, vulnerable to unpredictable market developments, to the whims of rating agencies or to the devastating action of speculators.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u388	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u389	But the PS and the government insist on the idea that mere current debt management operations, such as those carried out in recent years, can solve the problem. The more than EUR 7 billion paid annually by the service of unsustainable debt represents an unbearable burden for our country. The primary budget balances of billions of euros end up being devoured by the debt service, rather than being channelled to development, investment and public services financing. The proposal for a State budget contains some positive signal tax measures, but maintains the option of maintaining a large capital tax system, which continues to benefit from a lower tax than that which would be appropriate, at the same time as, due to debt interest, public-private partnerships and continued financial support, absorbs an important share of the taxes paid by Portuguese. This option of the PS and its government not to break with the fiscal promotion of large capital deprives the country of important resources and conflicts with the aim of making a more fair and equitable redistribution of national wealth. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Although it incorporates an important set of advances resulting from the struggle of workers and the decisive intervention of the CFP, the proposal for a State Budget for 2019 is, however, limited by the options of the PS and its Government and by external taxes arising from submission to the guidelines of the European Union and the euro. These options and external taxes do not allow this Budget to go further in response to the problems of people and the country, which limit the value of work and workers, which limit investment in the National Health Service, public school, social security, culture, justice, public transport, housing, forces and security services and the Armed Forces. These external options and impositions need to be overcome so that, within the framework of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, one can respond to the serious and persistent national problems, ensure the country's economic and social progress and raise the living conditions of the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u390	Mr Paulo Sá, the Bureau has registered Mr Cristóvão Crespo of the PSD Parliamentary Group to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u391	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Sá, since the end of 2015 there has been a coalition that defines the financial and economic policy of the State, the options of which are reflected in the State Budget, consensualized in the « cookie room » of the Assembly of the Republic. This coalition has produced legislation with possible budgetary impact resulting from the joint positions of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, but this impact ends in the discussion of the State budget, Mr. It is that soon thereafter the CFP has to swing to the side, because the approved budget is not the completed budget. It is therefore necessary to ask: where is the defence of the social functions of the State if public investment goes down to levels below the intolerable? Why is the quality of public transport degraded every day, the health care is degraded, the quality of public transport is degraded, the protection of people is degraded? No, sir. Members of the CFP, not just this State budget, have all been so. This is a Budget of much illusion, like the others, in which the thin promise of benefit has seized a real and heavy tax increase; it has an illusory benefit in IRS for former residents worse than the general rule that exists; it has an illusory benefit of the bill of light that translates into scarce cents; it has an illusory benefit in retirement conditions that does not pass from confusion; it has a real and heavy tax burden on fuels; it has a real and heavy increase in tax burden in addition, in extraordinary contributions, in special contributions and in municipal contributions. For the 2015 State Budget, Mr. Paulo Sá made a joke, the legend row. You don't want to repeat now, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u392	That's what got him through!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u393	Do you remember the pieces in which each is worth EUR 100 million of taxes? How many pieces do you need now, Mr. Deputies? [[PSD applause.]] At the time, he said he had 90 more pieces. How many more do you need now? But 70? Plus 80 pieces of 100 million? Is that it, sir? It would be interesting if you rejected this work again. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, Mr President, I am referring to the Portalegre district, but what I am going to say may apply to any point in the country. We see, everywhere, from public space to social networks, messages that seek to excuse you. One of them says the following: « In a struggle for a highly developed Alentejo ». Sir, why don't you develop it? Or « The PCP proposed 650 € minimum wage for January 2019 ». Why don't they increase it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u394	You do not vote in favour of this increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u395	The CFP cannot be taken seriously, since they have already approved and will again approve a budget that says something in this House, in the national Parliament, and a different one in the European Parliament in Brussels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u396	Vote for the increase in the minimum wage!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u397	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u398	Mr President, Mr Cristóvão Crespo, while I listened to him, I had to confess that I was falling into the jaw of perplexity. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I have fallen into the complaint by listening to the honourable Member, on behalf of his bench, speaking in defense of the social functions of the State! I've dropped my chin, sir! [[PCP applause.]] I don't have short memories, nor do Portuguese have short memories. You have been in the government very recently, together with the CDS, and we all remember very well what you tried to do with the social functions of the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and CDS attacked the social functions of the state and tried to dismantle them. They attacked the National Health Service, the public school, social security, public transport, housing. They attacked the social functions of the state and now they come here to talk about it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Cristóvão Crespo, it takes a lot of political rejection to come here to talk about defending the social functions of the state! [[PCP applause.]] The honourable Member has also come to talk about rising taxes, but I remember that it was in your government that made the most brutal increase in taxes that there is memory in our recent history for the incomes of workers, pensioners and pensioners. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You have frozen the minimum of existence, which is an IRS instrument that defends taxpayers who have lower incomes. They frozen it by harming and attacking these taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u399	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u400	You have attacked workers, retired people, pensioners, families, micro- and small-scale entrepreneurs through taxes and now you have the urge to come here to talk about rising taxes. The honourable Member referred to the history of legos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u401	They were of various colors, with shapes and dolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u402	I remember that today workers, pensioners, families, micro and small entrepreneurs have much less legacy parts in their backs also due to the contribution of the PCP. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u403	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, the problem is not the size of the tax burden, it is how it has been distributed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u404	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u405	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the PSD and the CDS have repeatedly mentioned in the debate that has happened so far, that this State budget is electoralist because it contains popular measures, they are only recognizing that this budget has included measures that are indeed positive to people. This political recognition is good for you. The Greens are proud to have contributed so that many of these positive measures have been included in this State budget, in particular in a logic of continuity of what has happened in this legislature in terms of the replacement of income and more public investment in certain sectors that lacked this growth of public investment. It's on this path that PSD and CDS are absolutely furious. They are furious, of course, because they liked people to believe that there was no alternative to the policy they had come to pursue in the last legislature. [[PSD protests.]] What they really wanted was for no one to believe that it would be possible to pursue different measures and policies that would not massacre people, contrary to what you did throughout the legislature and how they were now preparing to continue doing in this legislature if the Portuguese had given you the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic, which, fortunately, did not give. It is good, perhaps, to imagine what would be a State Budget of the PSD and CDS at this time, even at this time. It would, of course, be a budget for the continuity of wage cuts, for the continuity of pension cuts, for the continuity of the cut-off of non-contributory benefits and for many social support, for the continuation of the huge increase in taxes, especially at the level of income. It would, of course, be a State budget marked and loaded by privatization and which would fight for a weak public investment, of course a budget in which the fall of IRC for large companies would have a good margin in your document, because your ideological logic was that and was very marked.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u407	Speaking of investment, I would like to devote this intervention, mostly, to environmental issues. The truth is, with the latest PSD / CDS governance, the area of the environment was the one that annually did not escape the brutal cuts in public investment. What is crucial to say is that the costs of inaction of investment in the environment are very expensive when we then ship with the consequences of this lack of investment and with the need to restore or rehabilitate what is still possible to restore or rehabilitate. Often, the negativity of the investment is even definitive. For example, as far as forest fires are concerned, we have had big lessons and gross pains in this country, but we have had very high costs because we have not invested in this area over years, years and years. He was more involved in the fight than in prevention. Therefore, it was fundamental, in the Greens' perspective, to reverse this logic a little and to bet seriously on prevention. in this sense, in addition to the fact that we have contributed to stagnating the expansion of the area of eucalyptus, reverting a heinous law of the PSD/CDS government — the law of the liberalisation of eucalyptus— we also consider it essential to support, stimulate, give incentives to indigenous species, so that we have a multifunctional forest, diversified and therefore more resistant to the drama of forest fires. In our view, it is also essential to support the clean-up operations of the forest, particularly small owners with less economic conditions. On the other hand, talking about the environment is talking about a public service—at the state level, of course—which requires human means so that it can be successfully pursued. It is in this sense that in this Parliament the Greens have made great contributions, within the State budget, to the strengthening of these human resources, in particular as regards the conservation of nature. In addition, we have national plans, such as combating climate change, both at the mitigation level and at the level of adaptation. It is essential that there is truthful investment for certain sectors that will contribute to this national design. And the area of transport is a good example of this because more rolling material, more personal, more investment in infrastructures, especially in railways, is needed. It is crucial and the Greens have work to do in this regard, as they have worked with regard to the costs of transport licences. in other State budget, we battled much for the replacement of the discount of Pass 4 /NP 18 and pass sub23 and also so that the VAT of the social pass could be deducted at the level of the IRS. Now, all these measures will coincide and live with another one translated into this State budget. The Greens also fought a lot for it and announced - in fact, on parliamentary days - that it is precisely related to the question of the single social pass, which will benefit the public transport users in a great deal. The Greens believe that further steps could be taken at the state budget level, such as by placing more on tax benefits for works and equipment to promote energy efficiency. These measures, which were already translated into State budgets and which were subsequently withdrawn, had useful and incentive for good environmental behaviour. It was also possible to implement more measures for the efficient use of water, for the reuse of waste water and rainwater. With regard to a drama with which we are facing today, which concerns the issue of plastic and the need to reduce and remove plastic from the natural environment, The Greens have presented numerous proposals in the Assembly of the Republic for this purpose, but with a concrete contribution from the market and what the market offers. We believe that the State budget cannot be tied to certain little or no effective measures, such as the increase in the price of plastic bags. All we know is that it was not the rate of light plastic bags that led to their reduction, but rather their withdrawal from the market, having the large surfaces replaced these by larger bags, which are not taxed, but that these same large surfaces sell to consumers as if they were treated at a rate. After all, it is a business that has been transferred to these large surfaces. Therefore, it is not worth playing around and finding measures that do not have practical effectiveness. The market must contribute and must respond to what is a plan of all and no one can stay out of it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The area of the environment requires investment, because when we talk about the environment we also talk about the specific quality of life of people and rights. If we talk about replacing rights, we also, of course, talk about investment in the environment. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u408	Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque spoke for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget proposal is the last of the legislature and, once again, it does not surprise — illustrates the so-called 'alternative' to austerity. After being duly corrected by Brussels in the first budget outline for 2016, the government has given up the confrontation and has claimed victory for fiscal consolidation and for the lowest deficits in democracy. What should concern us all is the way they have consistently achieved these results. Enjoying a favourable external environment, as it has long been observed, and budgetary breaks resulting from lower interest charges — courtesy of the ECB — of high dividends from the Banco de Portugal — also courtesy of the ECB — in addition to an unprecedented tax burden, permanent expenditure increases every year. Public investment, which, after years of crisis, would be indispensable nor if it was just to keep what exists, has been the great sacrifice. Apart from the irony of being a left-wing government to penalise public services and citizens who depend on them — which, it is not surprising either — are the present and future consequences that concern us. With the last proposal for a Parliamentary Budget, a balance sheet can be made of the results achieved, as the Government has also done. Looking at the performance of our economy allows us to make that balance sheet. The government is proud to be converging with the euro area and with the European Union, because we are growing marginally above the average when much, and it seems to think that this is sufficient evidence. The media are what they are, so it is worth looking beyond the media. If we withdraw from the average large countries, penalized for specific reasons, such as the United Kingdom or Italy, the result is a clear divergence. All the countries to which we must compare ourselves are growing consistently more than we, some even more — from Ireland to Cyprus, which have also gone through very hard adjustment programmes, Spain and all the countries of eastern Europe. If the economic situation has allowed these countries to grow even more, why has Portugal not achieved it? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because the government does not know how to do it, nor does it particularly care about that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u410	I remember the ladies. Members who in the previous socialist governments were also like that. In the First Government of Eng Guterres the savings with interest, the benefits of the reforms of the governments of Prof. Cavaco Silva and the positive external environment resulted in increases in expenditure and we ended up in the swamp. And we were growing more than the European average! With the first Socrates government, with the easy and cheap credit, again, savings with interest, and the good external situation that preceded the crisis, the expenditure increased, the public debt doubled, great responsibilities were assumed for those who would then pay, and we ended up bankruptcy. And, despite little, we are also in agreement with the European average. Let me quote a phrase attributed to Einstein : "Insanity is to do the same thing and expect different results". Mr. Prime Minister, what do you expect to happen to Portugal this time? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u411	There are no more inscriptions. The President's goal is to finish the plenary meeting at 21 a.m. so that tomorrow we can finish the debate in the morning and in the afternoon there are only political statements, it seems unbelievable. Anyway, we'll do our best to move as far as we can in the morning. Meanwhile, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on some initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr. President has admitted Bill No. 1025 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, proceeding to 14. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which falls to 10. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1866 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote measures to meet plastic waste reduction targets, which fall to 10. the Commission, 1867 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and dissemination of simplified procedures to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1868 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Abolition of toll rates in A1, in Vila Franca de Xira and Alverca, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1869 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Reversion of the privatisation of TTCs, which goes down to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-29.u413	Before we finish the sitting, I inform you that tomorrow's agenda, as you know, has two moments, at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., consisting of the first point of the conclusion of the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. Then we have a second point with the end of the debate. Finally, the third item contains the legislative votes. Good night, everyone. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 28 minutes.]]
