ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 45 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. We shall immediately initiate the debate on the state of the nation and, for the intervention of openness, have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when opening the third debate on the state of this country, I would like to reaffirm the four commitments that the Government has made before the Portuguese and this Parliament in its Government programme. First: turn the page of austerity by returning confidence to citizens and restoring constitutional normality. Secondly: to relaunch the economy through a programme based on the recovery of family income and the creation of conditions for the investment of companies. Third: recover social protection levels, promoting poverty reduction and the reduction of inequalities. Fourth: to balance public finances sustainably, reducing the deficit and the weight of public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Three years ago many questioned whether we could reconcile the end of austerity with participation in the euro area. Three years back, we can say: yes, we did! Others doubted whether we could improve competitiveness, breaking with the development model based on poverty and the destruction of rights. Three years back, it's confirmed yes, we did! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, three years back, we can even add: we have achieved because we have changed policies! The return of income led to an increase in confidence, which gave a decisive impetus to the recovery of the economy. The growth of 2, 7 % of GDP recorded in 2017 was the largest in this century, the investment grew 9, 1 % in what is the biggest homologous variation of the last 19 years, and exports of goods and services grew 11, 2 % last year. Also in the job, the results speak for themselves. More than 300 000 jobs have been created and the unemployment rate has declined to the lowest level since 2002 ( 7, 2 % ), with the highest fall across the euro area in 2017, with fewer than 250 000 unemployed today, of which 190 000 are long-term. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not just more employment but also better employment: 85 % of the new contracts are endless contracts; more than 40 000 people who were employed in part-time have found a full-time job; and the dynamism of the labour market has allowed to restore confidence and hope to 45 000 people who were discouraged and who returned to active life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Breaking the cycle of impoverishment and social backwardness in which the country had plunged, inequalities have decreased, with Gini's coefficient reaching the lowest level ever, and poverty has receded to pre-crisis levels with 80 000 people freeing themselves from the risk of poverty. In short, we have more growth, better employment and greater equality. This course was carried out in conjunction with a budget implementation which strengthens the sustainability of the public accounts and the credibility of the country. The lowest deficit in our democracy has been reduced to 0, 9 % of gross domestic product, leading the European Commission to withdraw Portugal from the list of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances, while public debt has declined the highest since 1991, with 4 percentage points down last year. [[PSD protests.]] On the basis of these results in the deficit and public debt there is neither any budget cut nor the lack of any commitment with the Portuguese or before this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First of all, it is employment growth that has the effect of reducing expenditure on unemployment subsidies and increasing revenue, particularly contributions to social security. Secondly, we have a fall in debt interest, as a result of the confidence that strict budgetary management has allowed. Finally, we have the growth of the economy, which guarantees the sustainability of this consolidation. The results that we have achieved do not result from either chance or conjuncture. They're only possible because we've changed policies. It was because we reversed cuts in wages, increased pensions and the national minimum wage that the real income of families grew 4.7 %; it was because we rejected the values of social minimums, updated the indexer of social support, increased the lowest pensions and strengthened the family allowance that poverty dropped to pre-crisis levels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was because we have unlocked and accelerated the implementation of Portugal 2020 that we are today the country with the greatest implementation in Europe among the programmes with relevant dimensions. But we must remember that this change was only possible because a majority has been formed in this House that has made this Government's programme viable and has made its implementation viable, which by the Government will continue with determination and confidence on the horizon of the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the picture of the results already achieved, but this is not the limit of our ambition, our duty and our commitment to the Portuguese. We know that we must continue to do more and better. There is still a way to go and we want to pursue this path without setbacks or impasses. The stability of policies is crucial to the maintenance of confidence. Trust is crucial to the continuity of investment. Investment is essential to growth and job creation and only with growth and employment, it is possible to increase income and sustainably consolidate public finances. We can't question everything we've built. The well-being of the Portuguese and the progress of the country must be our priorities. In order not to have families in constant distress with tomorrow, we must have the courage to say clearly what is possible and what is not. In order not to have young people forced to emigrate again, we must reject the model of low wages and precarious jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have liked, I will repeat: in order not to have young people forced to emigrate again, we must reject the model of low wages and precarious jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I will move on to the next, which will also like: to avoid having a fragmented society and a divided territory, we cannot accept a minimalist and distant state again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are three fundamental criticisms that seek to devalue the results achieved: on the one hand, we would have given up public investment, exhausting the resources in current expenditure and in particular in wage increases; on the other hand, the persistence of difficulties in public services would result in a stubborn austerity and, finally, would have postponed sine die the reforms necessary to overcome the blockades of the country. The reality lies with these three criticisms. First of all, public investment increased by 22 % in 2017,... [[PSD protests.]] ... value that will still have a more significant growth this year, now with particular emphasis on the investment of the central administration. That is to say, we have recovered the importance of public investment in the country's development process, based on the priority of proximity investment, the investment that increases the productive potential and the internationalization of the economy and the investment that contributes to territorial cohesion and the decarbonization of our society. As for the proximity public investment, I would like to highlight the reopening of 20 courts, the creation of 17 new shops and 246 citizen spaces... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the construction of 113 health centres or the rehabilitation of more than 200 schools, some that had become real symbols of de-investment, such as the Alexandre Herculano Secondary School, in the Port, or the National Conservatory, in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The National Regadios Programme is an excellent example of a fundamental investment to increase the productive potential of our agriculture, which aims to create and modernize more 90 000 ha of irrigation area, half in the extension of Alqueva and half in replicating its effects in the central and northern regions. In the railway, connecting investments to Spain on the lines of the Mininho, Beira Alta and Beira Baixa are under way, and the largest rail investment of the last 100 years has already been launched with the new line connecting the port of Sines to the border of Caia. With regard to the road, which Portugal 2020 had ignored, we focused on creating links to areas of business location and IP3 requalification and duplication, which is essential for the revitalization of the interior and the fight against road weakness. The decarbonisation of the economy requires strong investment in urban mobility. We have given priority to the acquisition of new rolling material for the fleets of STCP and Carris and have advanced with the expansion investments of the meters of Lisbon and Porto. We have decidedly launched investment in the ever postponed World Mobility System, now approved by this Government's proposal in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. In conclusion, we did not cut or add public investment, we increased it and speeded up its implementation. Secondly, regarding public services, we re-invest in the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Repeat, we re-invest in the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... with an annual investment boost of EUR 700 million, hiring over 7900 professionals, extending the network of family health units and the integrated continuous care network and reducing the moderate rates. That is why the expenditure of families with health has fallen, which today we have more than 302,000 hospital consultations per year, which we have more than 19,000 surgeries in relation to those we had in 2015 and which we have reduced from 15% to 7% the number of Portuguese without a family doctor. Yes, these are the results! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also have a stake in the valorisation of public school, having today 7000 more teachers in the tables, plus 2500 operational assistants, less students per class, free manuals n. 1. the cycle, a reinforced social action and new programs to promote school success and pedagogical flexibility. This is why school success has increased by 2 percentage points in all basic and secondary education, while early school dropouts fell to 12, 6 %, thus approaching the target of 10 % set for 2020. In short, we do not pursue austerity, invest to recover the damage of austerity in public services and, in particular, in public school and in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, we also reject the accusation that we are not doing the reforms that allow the country to face the structural blockades and prepare us for the challenges of the future. The decentralization of competences for the authorities, which we are in a position to approve soon in this House, is the cornerstone of state reform, because we believe that by giving more means and competences to the parish, municipalities and metropolitan areas, we can have a more efficient state, closer to people and more effective in solving their problems. during this year, housing was finally assumed as a priority, with the launch of a new generation of policies aimed at ensuring accessible and worthy housing for all Portuguese, the promotion of rehabilitation, the stability of the lease and the resolution of housing shortage problems, which I hope this House will consolidate with the approval for the first time of a real housing law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the area of forests, too, we are implementing a reform that has long been postponed. We simplified the conditions for the establishment of forest intervention zones, created forest management bodies in order to give an economically viable scale to forest exploitation, and launched a biomass-use programme. On the other hand, it is necessary to bring to the end the execution of the rural and forestry register, whose pilot project we launched and has more than 41,000 georeferenced buildings. Tomorrow, at the extraordinary Council of Ministers, we will approve all the Regional Plans for Forest Management. We have created the Capitalisation programme to combat the excessive indebtedness and dependence of the banking financing of Portuguese companies, one of the main structural blockades in the country. This was essential for companies to re-invest and contract them, helping growth in business investment and employment. But surely, the most profound reform is that we have assumed innovation as an engine of development, in a cross-cutting and articulated policy, since the universalization of pre-school from 3 years to collaborative laboratories, investing in education, training, research and development, in the transfer of knowledge to the business fabric, in support of entrepreneurship and in transition to Industry 4.0. contrary to what is often repeated, we have not ruled at the flavor of daily life, nor without strategic vision. On the contrary, we have openly and participated in society, seeking to provide the country with the necessary medium-term strategic instruments. This is what we have done annually with the National Reform Programme, with the debate for a decade of convergence, with the launch of Portugal 2030 and with the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme ( PNPOT ), which we will approve in the Council of Ministers tomorrow. And that is what we will do in the public debate of the National Investment Programme for the next decade, which we want to discuss in this House so that it will be approved by a large majority, which we wish not less than two-thirds, in order to ensure stability to the decision-making process, without advances and penalty backs, as unfortunately happened — it is clear to everyone today — with the international airport in Lisbon, with high costs that the national economy today has to bear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we meet again in this House in September, we will be at the last legislative session and we will be preparing the last State Budget of this Parliament. And I want to be clear: it will not be because we are a little more than one year away from the elections that we are going to sacrifice what we have already acquired or change course.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u4	To ensure the sustainability of the path followed so far, by consolidating the good results achieved and continuing the efforts to recover income and the priority to improve public services, the promotion of investment, the reduction of inequalities and the strengthening of territorial cohesion, while continuing to reduce deficit and debt, is the meaning of the State budget that we will present within a few months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The next State budget is, first of all, a continuity budget. Continuity in the recovery of income. Next year we will continue to freeze careers and for the second consecutive year more than 95 % of pensions will be increased, 68 % of which above inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Continuity in improving social protection. In the coming year, the progressive increase in family allowance will be completed in the first 3 years of life and the replacement of the 4. the step and shall enter into full operation the third component of the single disability benefit relating to compensation for specific charges resulting from the disability situation. Continuity in improving public services. I'm talking about education and health, of course, but also about public transport, in which, with next year's investment, we're going to quadruple... [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u5	...in this legislation the investment made in the previous legislation. In addition to the railway and strengthening of human resources, security, rolling stock and expansion of metro networks, we will invest EUR 50 million in the acquisition of 10 new ships for Transtejo and Soflusa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Continuity in territorial cohesion, giving in the next budget, financial translation to the new National Programme for Territorial Cohesion which we will adopt tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Continuity in economic recovery and investment and innovation recovery policies. Therefore, in order to maintain the pace of support for the most innovative investment, we agreed in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 a change in the incentive system that will allow for increased support to businesses by more than EUR 5000 million. Continuity also in the balance of public accounts. But this is a Budget in which we can, thanks to the course we have already made, focus on the future. And to focus on the future is, of course, to assume as a great national design that the younger generations can have in Portugal all opportunities to achieve themselves fully from a personal and professional point of view and is to ensure that this generation has a future and that this future is built here in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The next budget will therefore include a programme of strong fiscal stimulus and support for family mobility in access to housing and education to promote the return of migrants, especially young people who have been forced to leave the country in years of severe economic crisis. The State budget for next year must also respond to the centrality of culture and science as the basis of the knowledge society. In the case of science, the Budget will have measures to achieve the investment of 1, 5 % of GDP in research and development in 2019, reinforcing convergence with the objective of 3 % of GDP in 2030. In the case of culture, we will ensure in 2019 the largest ever budget in the area of culture, strengthening support for artistic creation and heritage recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public administration also has an essential role in the society of innovation. Thus, by honouring the Government's commitments to value, rejuvenate and train the Administration, we will proceed next year to the recruitment contest for the State frameworks of 1000 young people with higher education in order to strengthen the centres of competence that we have come to create and the strategic areas of design and planning of public policies and the digitization of our Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The path we choose is what will enable us to fulfil our ambition to have more growth, better employment and greater equality. And it is also a path that prepares the country for the future through policies that improve the lives of Portuguese and promote equal opportunities, the cohesion of the territory and the competitiveness of our economy. Much has been achieved in these two years, but there is still much to be done. It is focused on how much we have ahead that we will continue to be motivated and determined to go along the path that we have started, without retreats, and not to stand by step, progressing, step by step, with the same confidence. [[P.S.'s applause, having the honourable Members Ascenso Simões and João Galamba applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u8	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the first round of requests for clarification. You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, you, for about 26 minutes, did not speak to the real country, did not speak about the real country and did not speak about the country of people. And, therefore, we realize that the Socialist Party's own bench has been so weak in the applause that it should have directed to it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the parliamentary year that now ends was bad for the Portuguese, leaves the Portuguese more fragile, the more helpless. For example, Mr. Prime Minister did not speak on the issue of fires and rarely spoke on the issue of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u10	Precisely? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u11	The Government has not protected Portuguese in these most basic situations. Truly, what remains is that the management is also in a decommissioning exercise: before, there were reversals and all the contentment that comes from there; now, Mr. Prime Minister, even though he tried to motivate them, they are no longer there, they are at encounters. You are meeting each other, as you will see in this debate, and that is not good for the country. [[PS protests.]] The question is, why? Mr. Prime Minister, I think you are being incapacitated, the government is being incapacitated, to use your words, because six months ago he said here in Parliament, when he spoke about Infarmed - and I want to talk about health - he acknowledged that the government was incapacitated. And since I want to talk about health, I say the following: you have a report on whether or not you have been able to transfer from Infarmed to Port 20 days ago. Six months ago, you said in this house, five times, that he was going to Port. Mr. Prime Minister, tell us there: after all, does Infarmed go or not to the port? Do you or do you not keep your word? But I want to talk to you more about health, because, Prime Minister, the question of health is, for us, very worrying. It's just that I think, and the PSD thinks, that the government, with the support of management, is mutilating, and I'm going to repeat, is maiming the National Health Service. The National Health Service is, indeed, a remarkable instrument of territorial cohesion and social cohesion, a remarkable instrument of solidarity, dignity of people, of combating inequalities and, however, Prime Minister, the National Health Service is destroyed with your policies. Those who say it are the professionals who are discouraged; those who say it are the waiting lists in the surgeries and consultations, who do not stop growing;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u12	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u13	...who says it are obsolete equipment that you don't renew in health; who says it are people who are discouraged because of your bad policies or because of the absence of policies. [[PS protests.]] Example: Family health units. 2017 was the worst year in the establishment of family health units and these are important because they guarantee more public access to health care. Well, you have reduced, you have stopped - there has been no growth - the establishment of family health units. Another example: continuous care and palliative care networks. The country needs a strong, long, robust network... [[PS protests.]] So, Prime Minister, how is it explained that the social security budget, which should pay for this continuing care network, has had a positive balance, with some EUR 140 million to be spent on the continuing care network? What about hospital care? Mr. Prime Minister, they have just played with the situation of cancer pediatrics at the Hospital de São João. That's enough! Don't play with the kids! Don't play with your parents! [[PS protests.]] Don't play! This is an important matter. [[PSD applause.]] They build the surgical block of Bragança, for which we left money; they end up with the situation that lives in the Gaia / Espinho emergencies, a situation of war scenario, or in the Algarve, where, after all, the surgeries and consultations are delayed, or then, in Lisbon, in the Hospital of São José, where people are dismissed and where there is a need, the doctors say, a disaster plan, or still in the MAC (Maternity Alfredo da Costa) where they end up services, where doctors, leaders and pregnant women are fired at the last hour. And why is that? Because, obviously, there is no investment! Mr. Prime Minister said he had grown the investment and I challenged him here, in part, and now I'm going to ask him the same question: the investment in health from 2015 to 2017 has dropped 52 million euros. How do you explain this? [[PSD applause.]] How do you explain less EUR 52 million? [[PS laughter.]] Don't laugh! This is in the General State Account! You don't believe in the state anymore? Oh, my God! It's your problem! More: how does it explain the mess situation that generated the passage from 40 hours to 35 hours of work? You put the National Health Service in a dead end, in a situation of inability to respond to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, we need answers. It is not enough for you to tell us, here, by the lightness that is known to you: "we shall turn the page of austerity! So they turned the austerity page and we have a National Health Service falling into pieces, mutilated, claudicating and without serving people? [[PSD applause.]] I ask the last question, Prime Minister, which is a challenge: tell us about the future. Tell people what your commitment will be for the National Health Service to rehabilitate, function well, and serve people well. Mr. Prime Minister, speak to the real people of the Real Country, which is what is expected of a Prime Minister in a debate of the State of the Nation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u15	Mr President, he clearly exceeded the five minutes he had, but the Bureau paid off at the time of his parliamentary group, and this is the practice that has been followed in the various debates of this kind and others. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u16	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, thank you very much for your questions. I think it's strange that we don't think we're talking about people when we talk about the 80,000 people who have come out of poverty since you left the government. I think it's weird! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't think it's strange that you don't understand that we talk about people when we talk about the 300 000 new jobs that have been created since you left the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's even about people we talked about when we talked about the 7700 new professionals we hired for the National Health Service and they weren't hired when VV. Ex. they were in the government. Mr President, I realized that what concerns you really are the people who work at Infarmed and on this I repeat what we have said: it is our intention that Infarmed be moved to Port.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u17	But will you go or will you not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u18	The conditions of change have been evaluated in a report that we are examining and, when we have the analysis completed, without levanity, to use your words, we will make the final decision...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u19	But no hurry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u20	...that I wish to confirm our intention. As for health, we do not live the benefit of the miracle. Don't! We are in a government that is making a very big effort in the last two and a half years to recover from the brute four years of disinvestment in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Member, the figures do not mislead: between 2011 and 2015, the expenditure of the health state fell from 6, 9 to 5, 9 % of GDP. It was a point of GDP that you cut off investment in Portuguese health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Now, Mr President, we are making a very great effort to recover these years of de-investment and that is why this year there is an increase in expenditure of EUR 700 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u21	We'll see, we'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u22	Investment expenditure this year increases by 50 %! [[PSD protests.]] That's why we're hiring 7000... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen! If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they knew better what's going on in the country. It's just that the gravity of what happened in those four years is well evidenced... [[PSD protests.]] ... because, after we have already hired more than 7900 professionals, we will continue to need to hire more professionals, because there are still shortcomings, and we will still need to make more investment to pay for the investment that has been made, and that is the effort that we have made and that is the effort that we will continue to make. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, there is one thing that the Portuguese know well: with the PS governments the National Health Service has been created and the National Health Service has improved, and with this government the same will happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u23	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, looking at the results of the Portuguese economy, we can only conclude that the economic strategy presented by the Government two and a half years ago and the parliamentary political formula that has been achieved to support this strategy has yielded results. A strategy which was based, on the one hand, on a return of income, to counter the environment and allow the recovery of economic growth, and on the other, on the creation of structural conditions for sustainable economic growth. When we see the reduction in budget deficit to historically low levels, the continued reduction in the weight of public debt, the increase in income available to families and the reduction of poverty we know that these are the results of these options. But these options are also the result of the growth of private investment in the Portuguese economy and the growth of employment, these 300 000 people who did not have to go abroad looking for the opportunities that, fortunately, the country offers them today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore logical to conclude that the measures taken by the Government in the field of corporate and banking capitalization, facilitating the relationship of citizens and companies with the Administration, placing on innovation and knowledge, created the basis for that economic growth not only to be conjuncural but to be sustainable. This strategy, Prime Minister, has always been characterized by prudence, concern about the sustainability of public finances, awareness that, in the face of scarce resources, it is necessary to make difficult choices. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that it wasn't now that the government found out that there are no resources for everything. This attitude has always been present in the choices of this government since the beginning of the legislature...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u25	Don't you remember what you said in election campaign?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u26	... and what has changed, Mr Prime Minister, was that a part of this Parliament in a few years passed from the attitude of 'no money to nothing. Which one of the words you didn't understand? "for an attitude in which there are resources for everything, you can do everything, as if Mana had begun to fall on the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's particularly curious, Prime Minister, this new public investment speech. It is that it has been more than a decade to diabolize public investment, and this public investment diabolization discourse has had consequences on the infrastructures that we have, or rather, had consequences on the infrastructures that we do not have today, and now, instead of that diabolization, we have this passion rediscovered in which, truly, there are resources to make all investments that have not been made in four years. All investments that allowed the country to go beyond the delay of decades would have to have been made in two and a half years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Prime Minister, at the moment I would like to urge the Government to continue those two fundamental options: to continue to govern with responsibility and with sustainability, because we know, and the Country, that the Government ensures this sustainability and that country's awareness is fundamental to the indicators of trust and to the indicators of economic climate. But I would also like to urge the Government to continue to ensure those investments that will keep this growth going in the future and that in the future the lives of Portuguese will be better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u28	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, I think he has made a good description of what has been the evolution of the opposition, particularly the PSD. In fact, the leader of the PSD, this week, said a rather revealing phrase : « we do not live any economic miracle». Then I realized what changed with the PSD leadership. The former leader swore by the Devil, the present demands a miracle from us. [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u29	It's all a matter of faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u30	This requirement says everything about the evaluation that is made. In fact, if what we are asked for is a miracle, then they may be satisfied, because we are not holy miracles. We are a responsible government, which has taken up the country with the will to solve its structural problems, to turn the page of austerity, to fight unemployment, to return sustained growth to the economy and to sustainably consolidate our public finances. [[PSD protests.]] We're doing everything we're committed to. We compromise ourselves with the replacement of wages, and we refuse; we commit ourselves with the replacement of pensions, and we refuse;... [[PSD protests.]] ... we commit ourselves to the cutting of the surcharge, and we cut it; we commit ourselves to the increase of progressiveness in the IRS (tax on the income of natural people) and we comply; and so we have come to do, successively. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u31	And we have come to do so not only in terms of what we propose in the electoral programme but in terms of agreement with the Greens Ecological Party, with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Left Block, which requires us a more demanding pace than, in the beginning, we assumed. Even so, and contrary to what was said on the right, it was possible to achieve all these results. That is why, today, we have more investment and more exports, based on investment in the economy, increasing family income and improving the quality of public services. But this work requires stone-to-stone reconstruction, after the seismic abasement that we suffer during the four years of right-wing governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the way we have taken and we will continue to do so that we can continue to have more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u32	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister Santos Silva has recently argued in an interview that the understanding between the PS and the parties on the left requires, now that the reversal of some of the most serious measures of the troika, a level of commitment that cannot exclude European matters. Now, the Block has never left that debate with the PS and with the Government. On the contrary, as you will recall, we created together in 2015 a working group on the constraints imposed by European treaties on our economy, starting with interest. Indeed, the European issue has a history in this political solution that we should not underestimate. He is certainly reminded of the commitment we made in 2015 to increase the national minimum wage. Do you remember what the European Commission said at the time, in fact, accompanied by the chorus of the Portuguese right? He stated, and repeated, that the salary of those who earned 505 € per month could not be increased, that it was an absolute irresponsibility and that the country would pay high in rising unemployment. [[Well remembered.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u34	Well, the Portuguese Government rejected European blackmail, remained faithful to its commitment to the Bloc and to the country, and I am glad it did! More than a fifth of the workers have seen an increase in their wages, year after year, employment has increased and we are now in a position to guarantee the minimum wage above 600 € in the short term. What happened with the minimum wage was repeated with the end of unconstitutional cuts in wages or with the updating of pensions. It is certainly recalled that Brussels did not accept that the cuts which Passes and Doors had presented them as permanent, or of the anonymous briefings to announce the chaos in Portugal with the simple application of the Government's Programme, after the agreements with the left, and how it was necessary determination to make different. I am sure that, like me, Mr. Prime Minister does not regret having opposed Brussels, having returned wages and disengaged pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u35	We knew at the time that we would have to go further and that none of this would be simple. We never hide our differences, but we never stopped looking for essential commitments. Let me mention one of the conclusions we have reached together on the budgetary Treaty. It says the report signed by Bloco and PS: "the continuing demands of excessive primary balances placed on the economy and public finances are socially and politically unsustainable. This would in fact require a significant increase in taxes or a deterioration in the quality of public services and social services. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] In other words, it is not new to any of us that the budget taxes in Brussels weaken public services. We are aware of this publicly, together. Protecting the National Health Service, the public school, ensuring public transport, called for initiatives in Brussels and the same will that enabled the minimum wage to be increased or to freeze pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u36	What changed, then? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] It changed the position of the government. The Government has seen the investment capacity in health and transport disappear in every tenth of the deficit cut by Brussels, and always exceeded by the Minister of Finance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u37	...in education, science, culture, territory. This is our biggest problem today and, therefore, Minister Santos Silva is absolutely right, we really have to talk about European policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u38	All right! [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u39	Mr Prime Minister, delaying the development of the country to overcome already absurd European goals for what exactly? The idea is to endure decades of primary surpluses, take thousands of millions of the economy every year to pay interest instead of investing, until you can pay a debt that the PS itself has already recognized is unfeasible and needs to be renegotiated? The idea is to tie the country to an anemic development route? Has it ceased to be true that « the continuing demands of excessive primary balances to the economy and public finances are socially and politically unsustainable », as we said, PS and Bloc two years ago? We learn from the path made: it was worth it every time we defended the country, despite Brussels. If the country needs it now—and how it needs it! — to rebuild its public services and its territory, why postpone a budgetary strategy that leads to the fight against social and territorial inequality as seriously as the objectives of the budget deficit, which assumes the enormous failure of the European strategy and affirms what we already knew and demonstrate: there is no consolidation without economic growth, there is no growth without the recovery of wages and pensions, without the recovery of the social state. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u40	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u41	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, which is part of the Government's programme is very clear: we are committed to fulfilling what we commit ourselves to in Portuguese, to what we commit ourselves to our parliamentary partners and to fulfilling the international obligations of the Portuguese State. That's how we started the Legislature, that's how we've lived the Legislature and that's how we're going to go on: fulfilling what we've agreed on. This is very important for confidence, not only national but also for international trust, because it was this international trust that allowed us to leave the Excessive deficit procedure, have a new rating and today we save millions of euros in public debt. Do you recall that three years ago it was absolutely dramatic the situation we were living with our public debt? There were even those who understood that it was not possible to govern without a major restructuring of our public debt. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] The fact is that we have been able to demonstrate that, thanks to the policies we adopted two and a half years ago, agreed with the majority of parliament, to wage in the return of income, in the creation of investment conditions, in good budgetary management, we can now have a lower deficit and a reduction in public debt. It is true, if I wonder whether I agree with the Budget Treaty, which I do not agree with the Budget Treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u42	The President of the Eurogroup agrees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u43	I did not agree, I do not agree, and I hope that one day it will be changed. But, until it is changed, we must comply with the Budget Treaty. The truth is that what we have achieved, particularly in the area of primary balances, is important not only because of the budgetary Treaty but, above all, because a country with the level of indebtedness that Portugal has, has to seriously reduce its debt amount, in order to put itself under any international crisis that may arise in an unexpected manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u44	We're not under anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u45	We do not know, and I suppose the Bloc does not know either, what effect the international economy might have on a possible trade war between the United States and China, and we do not know that any consequences may have on the international economy if it moves towards a trade war between the European Union and the United States of America. There are variables we don't control here. So what we have to do is, at the same time that we do everything that we are obliged to do, to put ourselves under any crises that may arise and that we cannot control. If you read this paragraph to which you have drawn our attention, I ask, firstly: has the primary balance prevented there from increasing income? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u46	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u47	The increase in earnings existed in the replacement of salaries, pensions, the thawing of careers, the introduction of 35 hours of weekly work, the replacement of holidays. Everything we have committed ourselves to has done, and against the opinion of the European institutions. in the same way, we did not reduce social benefits. Social benefits have all been increasing and, in particular, social benefits relating to pensions have not only experienced annual increases as they have also obtained, by agreement between the majority and by proposal of the CFP, particularly in the State budgets, extraordinary increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u48	For teachers, there's no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u49	So we've done it, too! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Aren't public services what we'd like? Of course they are not as we would like, and that is why we must continue to invest in public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u50	Come on! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u51	But that's why we stopped reducing the number of students by class and today we have 7000 more teachers linked to our education system? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is that why we stopped having curriculum flexibility, free manuals or strengthening school social action? Oh, my God! Don't! We're improving! In 90% of the municipalities in this country we have already managed to universalize pre-school education for all children up to 3 years. We have more than 7700 professionals in the National Health Service; we are launching five new hospitals, which have long been postponed; we have more than 130 health centers built; we have more than 55 Family Health Units opened since the beginning of this legislation and we already have nearly 1,000 additional care beds continued since the beginning of this legislation. It is this path, Mrs Deputies, that we must continue. This is what we have wisely managed to do: at the same time, to balance these commitments by fulfilling them all, because it is the best way of giving sustainability to the political solution that we have been able to build, to the change that we have been implementing, to save it from any external crisis that may arise, that we do not wish but that we do not know whether or not may or may not arise, and at that time it may be late to amend. So we will continue to do what we have been doing, continuing to improve income, investment in public services and social services. That's how we agreed and that's how we're going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u52	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, after 30 minutes of speech that varied between a sort of propaganda and an exercise of self-justification, it is appropriate to return to reality. The reality, Mr. Prime Minister, is that we are discussing today the state of a captive nation of the captivitys of Mário Centeno... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ...and the more and more badly disguised austerity of this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u55	A nation and a government that instead of ruling, governs itself; rather than decide, adjourned; instead of solving Portuguese problems, it is trying to solve its problems, as we are now hearing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u56	A Nation that lives in a double austerity and without troika, where taxes and taxes are charged on everything and which has the greatest tax burden since there is registration:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u58	... 34, 7% of GDP, EUR 67 billion in taxes and social contributions, only last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u59	It's the end of austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u60	A nation with captivations, which closes transports, which closes schools because there are no assistants, which postpones exams because there are no teachers, who closes teams to have the minimum of police on the street and who, in health, live a situation of real ruin. A Nation in which the state of its government is truly a state of denial. It says the Minister of Health, Prime Minister, that there is a'systematic empolation', and I am quoting 'pointual situations'. Mr. Prime Minister, I give you 10 examples, only 10, of these « spotted cases» that occurred in the last 10 months: nurses report chaos in the urgency of Guimarães ; pediatric urgency of Évora in rutura; Hospital de Setúbal with patients in monkeys in the corridors of the emergency; in Viseu, doctors and coordinators ask for resignation; in São João do Porto, children with cancer are treated in the corridors; in São João de Lisboa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u61	There is no Saint John in Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u62	... directors resign due to lack of conditions and security; in Alfredo da Costa they close three delivery rooms; in Funchal Hospital there are no beds for hospitalization; in Gaia, surgery due to lack of material; in Viana do Castelo there are cleaning workers who make assistants. There are 10 examples, Mr. Prime Minister, in the north, in the centre and in the south, in the interior, on the coast and on the islands. Is the whole country emboldening or are you the gentlemen who are simply forgetting the whole country, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You, the PS and the parties on your left, who so often speak in the National Health Service, risk yourself, if you do not put a brake on the "Centeno captivitys" — and responsibility is yours — to be the workers of the National Health Service and to remain in the story with this epithet. [[PS protests.]] Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister: they are not only the « Centeno captivations », they are also the « Costa tax ». Mr. Prime Minister started by saying that he turned the page of austerity, now he says it's over. Mr. Prime Minister, do you think Portuguese people, who, every day, in every 10 € of gasoline or gas, pay 6 € for the safes of their government and most of their majority, really believe that? Oh, my God! Do you think that, who is suffering from the austerity of the gas pump, believes even in the turn of the page or at the end of that austerity? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, what has happened and what is happening with the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) is serious, because it affects Portuguese and harms the economy, and it is also serious, because it questions your word. And this is fundamental so that a government can generate confidence. The CDS helped him fulfill his word and proposed the end of his overtax on fuel. This Parliament has approved, but the majority who support it seems to be playing with the Portuguese and that—there it is! — he does not want to rule, he does not want to take responsibility, he wants to govern himself, he thinks first of all about himself and then about the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u64	This is the mirror of a government that does not govern, governs its majority and its interests. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. João Oliveira, you, in the last three years with the ISP, raised more than EUR 1000 million in taxes. It was more than what returned to Portuguese in IRS ( income tax for natural persons ). That is the measure of your austerity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u65	Now, it's all set! If there were any questions, it's all set!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u66	Even yesterday, the State Secretary for Tax Affairs assumed that only this year is €474 million more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u67	What about Galp's profits? Don't you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u68	... on the basis of the principle that it was first neutral and is now a kind of 'green rate'. The problem, Prime Minister, is that this is a "red rate" for Portuguese, for companies that strive and for a country that could and should grow more than countries and states...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u69	What about Galp's profits? Don't you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u70	What about the return of assets that you voted for? Don't you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u71	... that have suffered the same kind of adjustment as Portugal and that are growing much more than us. Moreover, the first page of the countries that have grown up has to be turned to find Portugal. We only have 20 countries in front of "António Costa Wonderland"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u72	What about Galp's profits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u73	So, Prime Minister, my question is very clear: when does the nation cease to have a government in a state of denial and start to have a government dealing with the nation? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u74	of Galp's profits, zero! We already realize that Galp's profits are flowers on the lapel!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u75	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u76	Mr. President, Mr. Nuno Magalhães, I see that you became a prisoner in 2016 and did not realize that the year 2018 was even the record year of budgetary disappointments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] But what is absolutely extraordinary, I must say, is the conversion of the CDS! I remember what the right and the CDS said three years ago when we arrived at the government. The speech was like this: "Socratism is coming again, there is misfortune;"...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u77	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u78	... «it is only public investment, it is only increased social benefits, it is only spent on social services; and then we go to bankruptcy and there the devil comes». Oh, no, the devil was the part of the PSD, because you, in that matter, are secular. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That was your speech! Three years later, I see they are the champions of public investment! No one wants more public investment than the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u79	It's just what you promised!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u80	But, Mr President, there is one thing I would like to repeat, which is the following: the success of the budget implementation has not been based on the captives. The success of budgetary implementation has resulted from the success of the economy and, in particular, from employment growth. That is what has enabled a sustainable consolidation of our budgetary strategy. It is that cutting blindly or raising taxes in a brutal way, as was done in the previous four years, is easy, but as we have seen, it has not been successful. What is difficult, but which gives sustainability to the management of public finances, is the robust growth of our economy and, in particular, of employment. He is well aware that the reason why we have been able to achieve good results in the implementation of the budget comes mainly from employment, either by reducing expenditure on unemployment subsidies or by significantly increasing revenue for social security. These new 300 000 jobs represented a very significant increase in revenue for social security, which also explains the increase in tax burden. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] It is not because we have increased taxes, but because today there is a greater basis for contribution. There are more people employed and, with more people employed, there are more people paying for social security, and that's not bad for the country! It's a good sign for the country! Or do you want us to have more unemployment in order to have less tax burden? Is that what you prefer? If this is what you prefer, then assume that you prefer more unemployed and less tax burden. We understand that what is really a priority is to combat unemployment and that the more employees are better, because that is how we guarantee sustainability for our budgetary consolidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, with regard to the tax burden on fuels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u81	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u82	... the tax burden on fuels was, at the beginning of this legislation, in gas oil, 59 % and today is 57 %; there was no professional gas oil, now there is; in petrol, the tax burden was 70 % and now it is 64 %. So we've been lowering the tax burden and you are still campaigning against this situation? Oh, my God! There's a limit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Finally, I enjoyed your 10 examples in 10 months. I am not saying, Mr. Minister of Health does not say, no one can say that there are no problems in the National Health Service. It would be strange that there was not, first, because the pressure on the Service increased and then because the country's aging index increased 22 % from 2011 to 2017. at the same time, in most of this period, there was a cut of 1 percentage point of GDP, during your governance, in spending on health. Therefore, the enormous accumulated disinvestment and the breakdown of accumulated personnel now require a recovery effort that obviously takes time to produce all the desired effects. But instead of 10 examples for 10 months, have we done practical results: do we have more or less consultations today? We only have 302,000 consultations in hospitals! Do we have more or less surgical interventions? Today, we have more than 19,000 surgical interventions than we had before! Today, do we have more or less Portuguese with a family doctor? We have reduced the number of Portuguese people who do not have a family doctor from 14% to 7%! This is the concrete reality, Mr President! Today, the National Health Service is producing more because it has more resources, it is better organized and that is what allows us to have better results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have arrived in the country of Nuno in the country of wonders? Don't! We did not reach that country, but I hope one day I will help to get there, because I loved to get to your country of wonders. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u83	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u84	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the state of the nation is undeniably marked by the consequences of all the options that have been made in the past two and a half years, in which rights and income have been restored. Where the hopes and concerns of the workers and the people have answered, even if limited and insufficient, life has advanced in the right direction; where the options of the past and right policy have been maintained, where the government has brought about progress, where convergences between PS, PSD and CDS have been accentuated, the problems of the country remain or worsen. Looking at the course that has been taken since October 2015 to this point, the following question is asked: Now, what path does the government want to take? Do you want to take further positive measures for workers and the people or do you want to stop these advances? from the PCP, the answer is given long ago. For us, the way must be to go further in the defence, replacement and conquest of rights, to go further in the response to the desires and needs of the workers and the people, to break with the right policy options and defend our sovereign development. With the contribution of the CFP, wages were restored; pensions and reforms increased; family allowance and support for the unemployed were strengthened; school manuals and long-term contribution gains were advanced; taxes on those employed were reduced, with changes to the IRS and the replacement of VAT (value added tax) in the restoration; it was advanced in the taxation of large companies, with the increase of the IRC (council income tax) and real estate tax, with the addition to the IMI (municipal property tax). in these and in so many other measures is the mark of the CFP, of our initiative, of our proposal and proof that when the PS converges with the CFP, the lives of workers and the people improve. [[PCP applause.]] If it did not go further it was not due to lack of proposal from the CFP, it was because the government and the PS made other options and decided by other convergences. Time is not of high satisfaction with what it is done. Patriotic and left-wing policy is needed to solve the country's structural problems, and the CFP will continue to beat for it. One of the central axes of this alternative policy is the exploitation of work and workers. over these two and a half years, it has been proven that the value of work and workers is a fair choice in the social sphere, but also positive from the economic point of view. It is proven that the path must be to move forward in this direction, deepening the measures taken and making the choice for the repeal of the serious standards of labour law. Positive measures have been taken such as the replacement of wages, holidays, the payment of extraordinary work in the Public Administration or the replacement of 35 hours. But other advances that could and should have already been achieved were stopped, as is the case with career progression and full counting of the service time provided by workers. in other cases, the government made the option contrary to the interests of workers, as happened with the package of labour legislation we discussed here last week. Mr. Prime Minister, I leave a word and a question. Talk about the new generations. There are thousands of young people who begin to work, facing the black reality of precariousness, low wages, unregulated working hours and incompatible with family life, especially for those who want to be family, lack of support, day care or kindergartens or, still, insufficient coverage of family allowance. The meaning of the options that need to be made, the meaning of which must be advanced is a policy of general wage increases, of combating the deregulation of working hours, a State policy to combat precariousness for all employees of the Public Administration and the private sector, which guarantees the principle that an effective job must correspond to a permanent employment contract. This is a crucial principle: a policy that ensures young workers, mothers and parents, the possibility of compatibility work and their professional career with the exercise of their responsibilities as parents. Young people want to work and live in their country, but if they refuse and prejudge the future, they will be asked: “What am I doing here? “What do I do to my life? If you want to, don’t answer me, answer them. Which way, after all, does the government want to make? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u85	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u86	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I share with you the clearly positive balance sheet for these two and a half years. I believe that these two and a half years have a positive balance, by the whole of the achievements that you have mentioned here, and well, but also thanks to the creation of conditions that have made all these achievements possible and, more importantly, that make all these achievements sustainable. I understand we have an unequal relationship. The honourable Member may choose which part of the moon he wishes and exempts himself from the other part of the moon. I take the whole moon in all its cycles. And what I'm telling you is what I've told you since the first day we talked about the construction of this political solution: this is the way we want to go, that we want to continue to go along, that we understand that there are conditions to continue going along with the company we've been traveling with. This is our position and this is our desire. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we assumed these two and a half years altogether. in these two and a half years there were measures that were adopted by a proposal of the Greens Ecological Party, by a proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party, by a proposal of the Left Block. The bulk of the measures were proposed by the Socialist Party and measures that were in the Socialist Party's programme were adjusted at another rate, on a proposal from the Greens, the PCP or the Left Block, or all of them as a whole, but we also took the other measures that make all these viable and sustainable. That is why we must pursue this path. This is a path of success. He referred to the appreciation of the work and we, over these two and a half years, have made a great effort together for the revalorization of the work: since those workers who had long careers contributions, and to whom we began to do justice due to the effort that they have made, in combating precariousness, that weakens, above all, the young generations. I repeat: of the 300 000 new jobs that have been created, 85 % have not been precariously worked, they have been contracts without end. We are making the most consolidation and integration of precarious workers into the frameworks of the Public Administration that has ever been made and are now, with the proposed law that the Government presented in the Assembly of the Republic, also combating precariousness, eliminating two of the grounds on which, for years, it is possible to resort to the contract in time: to be young in search of the first job or to be unemployed for a long time. If the Government's bill is passed in the Assembly of the Republic, young people seeking the first job or long-term unemployed are no longer sentenced to term contracts and may therefore be hired permanently for the company's frameworks. Secondly, we have reduced the duration of the contracts. If the contract is an uncertain term, it can no longer be up to six years and may not exceed four years; if it is the right term, it cannot exceed two years. More: renewals of contracts as a whole can never exceed the time limit of the first contract. Therefore, if the first contract is six months, the sum of the renewals may not exceed six months, i.e. the contract cannot last more than one year and, even if it is precarious, the precariousness is also limited. There is also a set of incentives for winding up contracts. First, by the increased rate, but also by the fact that, by integrating the stages in the experimental period, the employer would be able to rely on an employer to hire a person, from then on, without end, to experience, so that he does not have to resort, as he would normally do, to long-term contracts for one, two, three or six years, if they were the uncertain term, and thus, within a short period, to be able to have confidence that he can contract and in an integrated way. That is why, Mr President, the answer to your question, in order to know where we want to go, is this: it is this way and, as you say, while there is a way to go, we are here to go along that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u87	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u88	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to make a previous point to say that some ministers of your Government, instead of giving in to the temptation to do futurology, what they should do is really focus on the problems of the country and create the real ability to find solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u89	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u90	I am speaking in particular of the statements made by Minister Santos Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u91	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u92	... that we invite you to stop doing futurology, particularly in relation to some matters that don't matter so much now, because it is important to access another way. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, you mentioned here that the agreements on the left demanded a more demanding pace from the Government than the one that the Government itself wanted. I think it was more than that, I think that those agreements on the left required more solutions than those that the government itself wanted. And we could give here a number of examples, in particular in the area of reintroduction of income, pensions, wages, social support, public investment itself, investment in rail or even in the forest area, in particular the proposal which the Greens presented to curb the expansion of the eucalyptus. The most interesting thing is that what Mr. Prime Minister does, in the rostrum, is to welcome and exalt the consequences of this rhythm and this ability to achieve in some of these sectors, saying that this created, generated confidence in the country and was extremely positive. What, then, is the conclusion to be drawn? That the PS has gone beyond what it alone would achieve and which is very important, Mr Prime Minister, that the Government will hear us and continue to listen to us in this time which is missing until the end of the legislature, so that, next year, Mr Prime Minister can make an intervention to further enhance the positive consequences of the positive measures we have been able to take. I think this should, in fact, be very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u94	Tell us, Prime Minister! We are here to draw the Government on positive measures, even in what the government alone would not be able to achieve. Good! But in the meantime, Mr Prime Minister will say this: "Ah, but we must be very careful, because we cannot sacrifice what we have already achieved."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u95	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u96	This, more or less in the way of « let's put a piece on the brake there, because this can't go that far either! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u97	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u98	And I hear the PS, more or less in the same logic, use this expression : « we must go with caution ». Mr Prime Minister, let us speak clearly: Greens are perfectly aware that resources are not infinite. We are not irresponsible, we do not want disoriented public accounts! [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u99	But, attention, we have no obsession with the deficit and we have the full awareness, like all Portuguese, that, in view of the resources we have, there are options that can be taken. Now, let's see the wrong options that the government has already taken, in which the Greens don't reveal themselves, and we think we could have gone further if the government hadn't put that fish on the brake. For example, Mr. Prime Minister, when the Government determines that the deficit level is below the government's original commitment, making for example EUR 1400 million wasted in 2017, at the level of investment that could have been made in the country, or that in 2018 there may be around EUR 800 million no longer being invested and therefore wasted, so that the deficit is a bit below what the government had promised, this is a wrong option. Why? Because the country needs that investment. It is not necessary to be more papist than the Pope, it is necessary to solve the problems that the country has, such structural problems that Mr. Prime Minister has spoken about, for which, if we do not start taking prompt and urgent measures, they will never cease to be structural. Another wrong measure the government intends to take is to increase the defence budget by EUR 4 billion to EUR 2024... [[Prime Minister Antonio Costa's protests.]] ... — well, Mr Prime Minister will say so — substantially increase the defence budget by 2 % of GDP when there are other sectors that really need investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u100	When Mr. Prime Minister says he has no money to pay for all the time of service to the teachers, and this number is an absolute ninaria when compared with the increase in the defence budget, Mr. Prime Minister, there is here anything that has to be clarified and there are obviously options that have to be taken. The same is also true in culture: EUR 25 million is not so much a sacrifice of the government's budget, and it is essential for artistic creation. But the government sometimes seems to be beating its foot in front of certain agents and certain sectors, and I don't know exactly how it is, Prime Minister. Do you want to show some iron arm? No, Prime Minister, this relationship with certain agents of society is crucial for resolutions to be in fact positive. As for the state of the Nation, there are some positive valuations that we have to highlight, particularly in the area of the replacement of rights and incomes, which has already been achieved. It is necessary to continue this path, to follow this path, but there is no doubt, Prime Minister, that there are sectors, particularly in the areas of health, education, culture and transport, with fundamental repercussions on the environment and territorial cohesion, where the next State budget must indeed give a substantial response. Mr Prime Minister spoke of fundamental issues and lines for the next State budget. We also want here to participate in the preparation of this State budget and we are committed to it, in fact, giving the necessary answer that the country needs. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u101	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u102	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all we believe in pluralism and we know that party diversity generates political wealth and wealth of political solutions. Therefore, we have been defending this political solution since the first hour and, as I have acknowledged in my speech and have always recognized, what is evident is that these results we all have are due to the political solution that we have been building, for two and a half years, with the Greens, the CFP and the Left Block. For our part, we are satisfied, although it is also satisfied, it is a good sign, of tranquility and reliable generator for all Portuguese. More: I had the opportunity to say that this path must be walked without retreat and without standing by. We must continue to walk with confidence. Walking with confidence means, as I have often said, we will never take a step greater than the leg, because we have to make sure that all that we have won is not lost again, we have to ensure future sustainability for all that we have conquered. And even more: we have to have room to move forward, because, obviously, we have begun to defuse careers but they will continue to be frozen in the future; we have started to restore salaries, but it is clear that they will have to increase in the future; we have already hired more 7700 health professionals, but we have to hire more; we have increased 700 million euros a year, but we must continue to increase investment in health, and so on. We must continue to invest in education, science and culture—I have had the opportunity to say that for the year we will have the greatest ever budget in the area of culture—but for this to be concrete we must achieve the necessary resources and at the same time balanced public finances. The honourable Member said, very well, that no one wants a big deficit and I always say that the left and right do not distinguish themselves because they have more or less deficit. Less deficit terms is simply a matter of good governance. In fact, I have given the example of many of the cameras managed by the CDU, which are of the most exemplary in the strength of their finances and their budgetary position. They have not stopped being CDU, they have not stopped being left-handed, they have not stopped having policies that they understand they should have and still have sound budgetary situations. Well, that's what we want to do: it's doing everything we agreed to do and we can have sound public finances. So far, someone has never provided me with an example of a measure that we have agreed and that we have ceased to comply with to ensure the reduction of the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u103	Early reforms for long-contributory careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u104	The deficit reduction has been achieved, fulfilling all the commitments we have made. What has been the result of the great reduction in last year’s deficit? On the one hand, it was due to a very strong reduction in the interest rate, above what we had planned when we made the Budget, on the other hand, that there had been a rather higher increase in employment than we had planned and, above all, had a very significant increase in the area of the social security budget. Last year, we had a reduction of EUR 460 million in unemployment subsidies and an increase of EUR 1600 million in social security contributions. Now, one thing is the deficit expected at the beginning of the year, which is a forecast, another is the final result. For years, in which the last month is very distressing, because sometimes there is a risk that the deficit will exceed the forecast. this time, he's out of line. But let us not forget that last year we had a huge uncertainty, which unfortunately came to confirm itself, and whether or not Eurostat came to blame last year's deficit for the investment made in the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box. Unfortunately, it came to do so, which put the deficit not in 0, 9 %, but in 3 %. Now, we had this enormous uncertainty and lived with this uncertainty until the end of the year. So it wasn't captivating, it wasn't any of it. It was, firstly, prudence, because there was this uncertainty factor with the General Deposit Box; secondly, and fortunately, it was the rise, far above what we had estimated, of employment and of contributions to social security; and thirdly, it was the descent, far below what we had estimated, of interest. Now, I draw your attention to the following: as you should remember, a few months ago, we had a discussion here about the Stability Programme on the strike that was going to take place in relation to the interest rate. A few months later, the turmoil created in Italy, with the transition from the government, had a very negative impact on our interest rates. It was not for anything that I had to do with us, but simply because the new Italian Government had originally proposed to demand a very heavy debt pardon, which caused all the debts to be fired. Now, this strike, about which, a few months ago, we discussed a lot, no longer exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u105	If there was no strike, why did they create it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u106	Therefore, we must be careful to move forward, bearing in mind that we may have uncertainties that none of us can foresee and by which none of us is responsible but which we must count on. It's like when you're going to drive on a road: cars don't only have accelerators, they have accelerators, they have brakes and they demand caution. What the Road Code says is that the maximum speed must be adjusted to the traffic conditions on the road, so it cannot always lead to a speed of 120 km on the highway because there are times when the highway is congested and we cannot move at that speed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u107	But you can't also travel less than 50 km/h!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u108	So we don't have to stand on the brake, but sometimes we have to moderate the accelerator, and that's how we're going to keep doing it. Now, don't believe everything you read in some newspapers. For example, there is no increase of EUR 4400 million in defence investment, which is what is contained in the table that has been presented and distributed and which is the commitment that was made in 2014, of which we now have a sustainable translation and we know that it will reach 1, 66 % of the Product in 2024, or 1, 98 % of the Product, verified certain conditions of financing. Now, what's most important, Mrs. Member, is what we're going to do with that money. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] What we're going to do with this reinforcement is invest in our scientific system and our national industry. We will invest in the naval industry and the aeronautical industry, which are the purchases we commit ourselves to, and in science, to, from cybersecurity to improving the quality of textiles and technical footwear, increase the potential and competitiveness of our economy. That is what we must do in an intelligent way, in the face of this defence challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u109	Let us now enter a new stage of the debate, in which there are requests for individual clarification of the various Members, for which Mr Prime Minister has already informed the Bureau that he will answer together. The Bureau records eight Mr. Members registered for this purpose, the first of which is Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u110	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let us get down to the ground and look at the state of the nation, as far as the Portuguese are concerned. this week, we learned that the CP is in a pre-break state, i.e. the only infrastructure that serves railwayly the Portuguese and the foreign citizens who visit us presents itself in a disastrous state. He himself was the President of the CP here in a colloquium promoted by the Parliamentary Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on public transport, which confessed to the total inability to solve problems. And the situation is this: we have deleted lines, delays behind delays, people dumped in train stations waiting for you don't know well what—maybe, an alternative that never comes! Open... And, Prime Minister, we also know, and you have already told us here, that, in order to be able to do the works in the IP3, you cannot fulfil the commitments with regard to careers and their evolution. What I am asking, on this matter of public transport, in particular the CP, is the following: where will Mr. Prime Minister cut in order to transform this company into what it must be and for this company to do what it should do, which is to provide quality service to the Portuguese and the tourists visiting us?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u111	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u112	A second question, Prime Minister, has to do with investment, and the 2017 State General Account gives us very interesting data. We are talking about data in public accounts and, above all, about the investment of the central government, i.e. the investment that concerns the government. And the figures, Prime Minister, regarding the investment of the central government, are these : in 2015 this investment was EUR 2764 million ; in 2016, it was EUR 2515 million ; and in 2017, it was EUR 2306 million. That is, if we add up the reduction in the past two years, it is already nearly EUR 500 million, with regard to the investment of the central government. There is another aspect that seems very relevant to me and that has to do with the following: if we compare what was budgeted by the Government in 2017 with what was executed, by each of the ministerial sectors, we come to the conclusion that the execution rate is very low, which is another very worrying given. Perhaps this explains how uncomfortable people feel about the lack of response from public services in their day-to-day lives—and this is the State of the Nation, which concerns the Portuguese in their day-to-day lives—and the discomfort that is also seen in the parliamentary benches that support your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u113	It's true! It's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u114	I will give some examples: in justice you had budgeted 55, 3 million euros in investment and executed 23 million euros; in basic and secondary education you had budgeted 136, 7 million euros and executed 55, 6 million euros; in health you had budgeted 228 million euros and executed 110 million euros; and in science and higher education you had both 'filled your mouth' and 'budgeted 240 million euros and executed 108 million euros. This is the reality and this is the state of the nation. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u115	Mr. Deputies, it's been over two minutes. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u116	I will now finish, Mr President. One last question, Prime Minister, has to do with Community funds. at the end of one year of operation, the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) had an execution rate of 1, 9 %. Portugal 2020, at the end of a year in December 2015, had an implementation rate of 4, 5 %. Today, just over two years after the closure of Portugal 2020, the implementation rate is around 24 %, i.e. below that recorded in the same year as the QREN. And if we look at what regional operational funds are the implementation rate of all of them is below what was the implementation of the same programmes in the QREN. If we look at POSEUR(Operational Programme of Sustainability and Resource Efficiency), which is the major public investment leverage programme, we see that it has an 11 % implementation rate. Mr. Prime Minister, isn't this bothering you? What can you propose to us and the country, within the framework of the nation state, so that these funds are, in fact, what should be, that is, the lever of transformation of the Portuguese economy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u117	Before giving the floor to Mr. João Torres, I just want to mention a methodological question. As Parliamentary leaders, in particular, will know from the rules governing the conduct of today's work that the first request for clarification of each party may last for 5 minutes and the remaining requests for clarification will be for 2 minutes each. However, there is often an understanding that, in this kind of debate, parliamentary groups can use twice as much, provided they have time for this. Can we act this way, or do you see any drawbacks? [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will follow this methodology. Mr. João Torres of the Socialist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u118	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government has not stood out only by the replacement of social rights or by the return of income to families, although we are proud of these achievements. Building and realising a country idea means much more than that, and Mr. Prime Minister knows it well. One of the structural problems we are dealing with is the planning of our territory — basically, the management of the interaction between man and the natural space. in a country with the characteristics and development matrix as Portugal presents, this is even one of the strategic keys to the future, because there were many mistakes of the past whose consequences we still feel today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u120	It is known that the great challenges facing the country require a general view: from north to south, from the coast to the interior, without forgetting the autonomous regions. The promotion of natural and environmental values, climate change and medium- and long-term demographic prospects impose not only a deep reflection but also a concerted action between different domains and government areas. It is essential to act now and the Government and the PS have not stolen their responsibilities, particularly with the revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme ( PNPOT ) and forest reform, a resource that we need to empower to ensure a more coherent and resilient territory. Mr. Prime Minister, conceiving the country as a whole and giving continuity to the path we have travelled, promoting opportunities for all, regardless of whether they live in a low-density territory or in an urban centre, is not just a political priority for the Government, for the PS and for its parliamentary group, but basically a responsibility of the State for each and every citizen. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, whether we have more reason to believe today in the potentials of our territory, in particular in the gains that represent our natural resources and our forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u121	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u122	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you said, days ago, that management is at the heart of the Portuguese people and therefore the first question I ask you is whether it still remains at the heart of the Socialist Party. It is that we have repeatedly heard from members of the Government of leaders of the Socialist Party saying that there are electoralist measures that are in accordance with the founding spirit of management. For example: to demand an increase in pensions for the next State budget is electoralist; to demand an increase in wages for the next State budget is electoralist; to demand a strengthening of social support for the fight against poverty is electoralist; to demand respect for workers' rights is electoralism; to demand a fight against precariousness is electoralism. Mr. Prime Minister, is it electoralism that we have made so far with management? [[It is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u123	It is that all these measures were fulfilled, year after year, with the choices we made in the various State budgets. And this is the fundamental matter. It is just that we — and I believe that Mr Prime Minister too — are proud of what has been done, but we do not, as Mr Prime Minister is doing in this debate, a red-colored country painting. We know that management constituted itself with the humility of the parties against the arrogance of the right, which denied the social crisis in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u125	And, therefore, we do not deny what much is yet to be done. We do not confuse the number of doctors who were hired with the insufficiency that this number means for the country's requirement; we do not confuse the number of nurses and the number of beds that were opened in hospitals with the insufficiency that these numbers mean for the needs of the National Health Service (SNS ) ; and we do not confuse the investment park that existed, however different from what the right would do, with the need that occurs in the social state, both in health and in education. And we also don't confuse teachers' rights with IP3. It is that this was the genesis of management: the humility of recognizing that the people of our country needed solutions to the problems that the right had created for them. Mr Prime Minister answers « but we want responsibility», and makes the macroeconomic scenario of Mário Centeno almost one written on the stone. Mr. Prime Minister, that «stone» was destroyed with management. This document said it was irresponsible to increase the minimum wage to 600 €, it said it was irresponsible to cut, in one year only, the entire attack on the salaries of the Public Administration, said it was irresponsible to increase pensions—and we made two extraordinary increases in the following two years—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u127	... said that the policy that was followed was irresponsible. In view of these matters, we see that the only thing Mr. Prime Minister does not think that should be achieved until they are the goals agreed with Brussels because the Government has been in addition to the goals he had promised every year, both in the macroeconomic scenario and in what has been approved in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Prime Minister also said in this speech on responsibility: « We should not take a step longer than the leg ». But, Prime Minister, we also don't want to "swift the leg to the frog". And we have seen this, for example, in what the Socialist Party has signed, for more than a year, with the Left Block, with regard to the budgetary targets agreed with Brussels. They said they called into question the public services and they are putting them in place, but the government is going beyond them, even more challenging the public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u128	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u129	I will finish, Mr. President. They also said that our debt should have an answer and that the government was putting this huge problem in the country in question at European level. Now, we see that the government has "brained its leg to the frog" and has taken no step in this direction. These are the great problems that materialize in people's lives and therefore even on the way to the next State Budget, I wonder if the heart of the Prime Minister and the Government still contemplates management. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u130	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP has the floor to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u131	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, noting that this dialogue is very interesting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u132	He's the best!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u133	... would begin by saying that you came here, today, once again, in a fable spirit: it brought us clearly "António Costa in the Wonderland".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u134	It is not « António Costa », it is « Nuno Magalhães »!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u135	But "António Costa in the Wonderland" did not speak nor gave answers on essential questions. Mr Prime Minister, it is curious that in your speech you have not said a word about demography or birth — zero! — and said very little about an issue which is of great concern to the country, and which concerns my first question, which is the question of the interior. The CDS made concrete proposals on the issue of the interior. We have proposed a reduction of half in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) ; we have proposed a boost in transport; we have proposed support in the IRC (tax on income of collectives); we have proposed incentives for investment, but we do not know what Mr. Prime Minister is going to do. Therefore, the questions are very clear and very obvious. First: what is Mr. Prime Minister going to do? Which way is it going to go? Will you or will you not take advantage of our proposals? Second: what will take Brussels? And now, when you go to Brussels with these proposals to the inside, which are a fundamental concern of the country, how is it obvious? Mr Prime Minister is very focused on the issue of fables. Moreover, it is something that you share with your government's « number two», which is also a great expert in fables – we know that – and that, even as a parliament, often brought us here fables, and always on purpose. I would like to take advantage of the willingness and compliance with Dr. Santos Silva, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that, when he speaks of the past, when he speaks of the past in relation to public investment, when he speaks of what has been necessary to do with the previous government, in terms of fables, Mr. Prime Minister, who recently came to tell us that the Socialist Party is not the "Carochinha" — the expression is his and has said - to him days ago — in search of the "John Ratão",...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u137	... it is often forgotten that the previous government of the Socialist Party, in order to choose a fable, was more « The Fox and the Galinheiro». [[Rice from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] This is how the country was led to bankruptcy: it was because the Socialist Party treated the public things that it had to take for years to take the measures that had to be taken. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] As regards public investment, Mr. Prime Minister arrives here today and tells us "we increased 22 % in 2017" — and do not count its number — what Mr. Prime Minister does not say was that in the previous year, in 2016, he had fallen 34 %. [[Well, well!]] [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u138	In other words, its increase of 22 % is above a previous fall of 34 % — that is to say, to be strict in the accounts. This increase and current value are below public investment in 2015 — this is what Mr. Prime Minister should tell us here today, and he does not tell us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u140	Obviously, as has already been said, this reflects the issue of transport, in the context of what we have talked about the CP (trains of Portugal ), in the matter of schools, as regards asbestos and works not done in schools, and even in matters such as the courts or the safety of Portuguese themselves. I shall finish, Mr Prime Minister, by saying, within this logic of fables, that we hope that you will solve this issue of public investment and the assumption, because whoever came for public investment was your government. The CDS has always been in favour of productive, structural public investment in the country. It's always been!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u141	The government speaks but it doesn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u142	You are here, therefore, to clarify why you are not doing your own programme. You know why, Prime Minister? It is not the history of Carochinha that is at stake, Prime Minister. The story of your government, having to choose a fable, is The Old, the Boy and the Ass—and I don't attribute roles to anyone, because I don't want to be unpleasant. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] [[PS protests.]] But it's the Old One, the Boy and the Ass! You know why, Prime Minister? Because now ride one, now ride the other, now it is one that is riding, now it is the other that is riding, each one is riding in turn and, in the end, it ends all the same or worse than it was before! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, to finish, do you know what the morals of history is? I'll read the morals of history.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u143	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u144	I will end the morale of history, Mr. President. Without morals there is no story that ends, Mr. President! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Morals of history: every head its sentence! The thing's going to go wrong— oh, go, go! — and whoever will pay the bill will be all of us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u145	You've been saying that for so long!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u146	Mr Telmo Correia, it is true that there is no history without morals, but if I could put the morality within the time of history, it would also help a little. [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] You now have the floor to put your questions on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u147	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, although some measures have been taken, the state of public services remains a concern for the Portuguese. There are real problems in the SNS : there are missing professionals and equipment, there are exhausted professionals and obsolete equipment and buildings and no maintenance,... [[Don't you?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u148	... close beds in hospitals, aggravate waiting lists and users are pushed to private hospitals, because the SNS does not have the ability to respond to their needs. These are real problems, which are being exploited for an operation against the SNS, triggered by private health groups, with the support of the PSD and the CDS and their speech of attack and pricking the SNS to feed this strategy of private groups. What options will the government make? Are you going to put a brake on private health groups? Will it put an end to its financing by the State budget? Are you going to take investment measures in health professionals, equipment and infrastructure? Or will you continue to postpone all these measures, saying, as Minister Santos Silva said yesterday, that the Government's biggest commitment is to the rules of the euro area and of the European Union? Oh, my God! In education, there is no less concern: there are lack of assistants in schools, there are problems with competitions and the placement of teachers, there are schools that need investments, there are specialists in precarious situations and uncertainty and there is destabilization created with the impasse in achieving career progression. We also ask ourselves: what options will the government make? Will you hire the missing professionals and make the necessary investment in infrastructure and school equipment? Will it ensure the linkage of workers in a precarious situation? Will you ensure the appropriate rules for the placement of teachers and respect, as the law states, the full counting of the time of service provided, negotiating the mode and time limit for payment of remuneration valuations? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, in transport, the recent example of the CP says all about the option of cutting into investment to meet deficit targets: trains without maintenance, interconnected connections made with regional link trains, delays, deleted lines, worst service to users. These are problems that are added to those of river transport, which continue to solve and harm thousands and thousands of people daily. The path must be investment, improving public service, modernising public transport undertakings and valuing their workers with the corresponding investment. What options will the government take? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u149	To request clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, in this debate an unmistakable theme is education. Mr. Prime Minister certainly recalls the words he addressed to the teachers in September 2015, which I quote: « There will be no quality in school, education, in the future of our country without motivated teachers and educators. To do this, you need to have peace in your careers, peace in your day-to-day life of school." For it is, you are Prime Minister two and a half years ago and the country is witnessing a climate of instability, confrontation and disbelief, as it has long not been in education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u152	... reaching the point of, in a demagogic speech and certainly not reflected, Mr. Prime Minister inaugurate work announcement comparing the tar kilometres to teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u154	To those who promised tranquility and motivation, today offers instability and frustration. This past year was bad for education, it was for schools, for families and for teachers and employees. The government created expectations, made promises and, in a new time without austerity, failed to meet. We live « the worst end of the year there is memory », says the President of the School Council. The government has created expectations and personal shortcomings in schools, created expectations and so far schools do not have the revenues they had managed to collect last year, created expectations and public investment in schools is today less than 2005. The government created expectations in November, also with the counting of service time for the purpose of progress. Seven months later, the Minister appeared to announce that the Government was not going to comply and the Prime Minister stated in Parliament that there was no money. The question that arises is whether it was by incompetence that in November he made a commitment without the accounts made or whether he simply lied, when he promised what he knew he could not give, or if it is so irresponsible that he continues to wait for the new accounts that the technical commission created this week will come to the conclusion...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u155	You can't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u156	...to know it was fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u157	There's no money, it's for IP3!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u158	We have always said in the PSD that it would lead the government to find a solution to the problem that he himself created. Despite an unspoken sense of opportunity, on 4 June by the Minister, we were pleased that he sat at the negotiating table this week. The question we have to ask Mr Prime Minister is whether it is confirmed that the value of EUR 600 million, which he mentioned here and advanced in the 15-year debate, was not correct...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u159	He's never been!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u160	... and if you are waiting for a value close to that which has been indicated from the outset by the unions, in the order of EUR 280 million. Mr. Prime Minister, this past year was bad for the Portuguese, and I referred to education as could refer to science or culture. At the end of this Legislative Session, any serious balance sheet that takes place cannot fail to record the criticisms of the main actors who rise against the action of this government, in a common trait: they are created prospective and promises that, despite the repeated end of austerity, they are not fulfilled. In the case of science, the 2018 Science Manifesto was launched, with strong criticism to the government, and enthusiasm was so much that Mr. President of the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology) and Mr. Minister signed the Manifesto against the Government. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u161	Recognised scientists, without biased connotation, have come to the public saying that there is a serious and exhausting situation, that laboratories and science in Portugal are dying, etc. etc. In the arts, too, the government has created a problem that drags and is far from being solved. In 2016, high expectations were created that, over these two years, were truly frustrated. The independent production, which, for years, in particular of crisis, has nurtured the cultural fabric of Portuguese territory in a diversified way, is absolutely negligible. The return to a regime art supported by direct State investments in closed self-assessment circuits is today an effective fear of the artistic entities we heard here two days ago in Parliament. It is worth repeating what some of these voices have said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u162	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u163	I'm done now, Mr. President. I quote: « we feel wrong in our good faith», « there was dialogue, we were there, but we have not been heard», « we want answers, we do not want these to pass from here to four years». And another: «Unquestionable failure, which Mr. Prime Minister later intended to carry out an incomprehensible attitude to respond with more money to silence voices». Finally, the last obvious question for Mr. Prime Minister is the following: in the face of the failure of cultural policy, what answer does you have to give to artists and creative structures? What extraordinary measures will you take, bearing in mind the extraordinary nature of the damage caused by your government in this sector at a time of economic growth? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u164	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u165	Mr President, Prime Minister, spoke to us today about a continuity budget. In the Left Block we have never seen the PS, Block and PCP benches just as a budgetary majority. The political majority, for that matter, should not be summed up only at the time of the adoption of the Budget. The political majority requires coordination, negotiation, preparation, commitment effort between budgets. And the truth is, Prime Minister, that the Government has sought other commitments, far away from its partners in agreement, at the Rui Rio PSD, with the bosses, in the form of social consultation. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] We have no problem with that, they are choices, each one makes their own and those of the PS have the advantage of being very clear and being in sight of everyone. But, Prime Minister, look at this Assembly of the Republic too! The majority of parliament that Mr Prime Minister needs for continuity has always been here in these benches. So welcome, Prime Minister, welcome back to continuity! At the end of the Legislature, it is because of the choices we have made and the choices we will make until the end of the Legislature that we will be evaluated. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to bring you some choices that are still to be defined on the side of the government. The new basic health law is still under discussion. António Arnaut and João Semedo, who created the proposal presented by the Left Block, gave the example: they joined together, PS and Block, to find solutions to the left that protect the SNS (National Health System ) from private predation, which protect them from degradation. The government even went to the presentation of this proposal, but ignored its existence and preferred to deliver to Maria de Belém, who has a strong curriculum in private health, the task of making another proposal, more permeable to the business, less committed to the universal SNS. But we're still going in time, Prime Minister, we're still going in time to negotiate on the left, if that's the PS's will in health. The Block will not miss this majority when the time comes! Another example: Article 19. that of the State budget, which provided for the full counting of the hours of service of teachers for the purposes of negotiation of career replacement, remains valid.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u166	What about IP3? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u167	The government has failed to ignore it, created confusion, undermined confidence, delayed the process that the majority had settled at the time of the State budget. But we are still in time to negotiate a better solution on the left that respects the Budget and that respects the rights of teachers. The Left Block will not miss this majority when the time comes! Another example, Prime Minister : the proposals for amendments to the labour law have not yet been voted on in the Assembly of the Republic. The government could have already secured the agreement with the Left Block and had a strong law and an unequivocal law against precariousness, but it preferred to close measures with the bosses, who distorted what was good in agreement with the Block and introduced measures and new precautionary factors. And, Mr. Prime Minister, did it without news, did it without warning the Left Block, after making an agreement. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u168	But, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that the same parliamentary majority, made on the left, which gave you the approval of the labour agreement, that parliamentary majority is still here, is still in these benches. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u170	What you cannot count on is the vote of the Left Block for measures that degrade our own agreement and introduce new precautionary factors in the labour law. Mr Prime Minister, in recent months, the Government has made choices on very important issues for the country. in these choices, the government and the PS did not seek solutions on the left, did not strengthen the parliamentary majority, delayed the budgetary negotiation process. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] He lacked continuity, it is true, but it was not the Bloc that missed the call, it was the Socialist Party, and it is necessary to recognize him! We are available to negotiate the next Budget, we are available to make difficult choices, which do not show only the good side of the moon, we are available to make all choices! Whenever the PS wanted to rule on the left, there was a parliamentary majority who did not miss the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u172	And the Left Block never missed this parliamentary majority! It remains to be seen whether the Socialist Party will miss the left! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u173	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u174	Mr President, Prime Minister, the intervention of the CFP has been decisive to take steps to defend the rights of workers of science and to defend the constitutional right of the people to creation and cultural use.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u176	In science, laws and expectations were adopted that post-doctoral fellows could finally enter into a contract of work. If this was an advance towards the scenario lived, today it is far from being realized. We have only 71 contracts of employment concluded and the deadlines are running out. It is not the existence, Prime Minister, of a Scientific Employment Observatory to "stimulate and put some pressure on institutions" that will solve this problem. The law must be fulfilled! It is necessary to ensure that a scholarship corresponds to a contract, either in scientific employment or in the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the Precarious Links in Public Administration )!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u178	How will the Government, Prime Minister, put an end to this impasse? What measures are you going to take in defense of the pockets and investigators? In culture, the intervention of the CFP was essential to broaden the free access to museums, to replace literary creation scholarships, to safeguard heritage, to strengthen money from support for the arts. And the CFP well proposed that the 2018 State Budget be strengthened for the reconstruction of the artistic fabric, with the increase to 25 million in support of the arts, which would have avoided the disastrous results of the last sustained support contest. The question is as follows: what options do the Government want to make? What budgetary measures will it take to prevent this from happening again? What will be the answer to the companies that have been left out of support and to those who have seen the support diminished? It is not enough to change the regulations so that everything will remain the same. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not enough to say that it's going to be the biggest budget ever, because that can still mean it's little or nothing, because we're talking about culture below 1%, we're talking about 0%. Therefore, Prime Minister, we need to strengthen the budget and build a 1 % plan for culture! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u179	You now have the floor to reply, Mr Prime Minister, which benefits from time-givings from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, we aim to make 5000 contracts, through the various routes, between the individual and institutional contracts of the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology), plus the PREVPAP processes, plus the ongoing processes with the institutions, which are taking place until the next month of August.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u181	And the school doesn't even give it to her!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u182	On the issue of instability, Mrs Margarida Manso... [[PSD laughter.]] ... Mrs. Margarida Mano, there are 7,000 teachers who are already linked and who were not previously, and this obviously gives stability, we have frozen the career, which is essential, and we are developing in schools programs of effective transformation of their quality, such as the reduction of students by class or as the program of flexibility. The declaration of commitment which we have signed with the unions, and which we are fulfilling, provided that the effects of the freezing in terms of time, timetable and time are mitigated. As for criticisms of the public procurement code, they are exceeded because we have made this amendment. Mr Telmo Correia, you have certainly not listened to my speech, otherwise I would have found that I said that tomorrow, in the Pampilosa of the Serra, we will have an extraordinary Council of Ministers, which will re-approve the National Plan for Territorial Cohesion, which is called for measures to the interior, whose budgetary translation will be in the next budget. With regard to the question put by Mr Emídio Guerreiro and also by Mr João Oliveira, the CP will open the competition this year, as envisaged in the State Budget, for the acquisition of new compositions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u183	Only two years from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u184	Until then, you will have to use the rental of material, and that is, of course, the fruit of years and years of investment that have accumulated. With regard to the question raised about the implementation of the budget and the Community funds, I recall what I have just said. We are the first country implementing Community funds, among the countries that have an allocation of structural funds similar to ours. currently 28 % of the Community funds are implemented. I remember that when we arrived at the government there were EUR 4 million delivered to the companies. In the first 100 days, we went to EUR 100 million and now we already have an implementation in which we are the first country of the European Union in the implementation of Community funds. With regard to the question put by Mr João Torres, it is a priority for us to value endogenous resources—it is so in the sea, so it is in the interior and, in particular, in the forest. That is why forest reform is absolutely essential, because only by giving an economic scale to its management will it be possible to properly value it. With regard to the question put by Mr. João Oliveira, I would like to say the following: we have no doubt that the health sector is particularly attached to the hypervalue and concerted action of problems that exist. As it is recalled, until the Minister Correia de Campos submits his resignation the Country has, at some point, lived an epidemic of deliveries in the highways, which, miraculously, have never occurred since the Minister Correia de Campos ceased to be Minister. That does not mean that we are not well aware of the serious problems that exist in the National Health Service and that the effort we have already made is not sufficient. That's why we can't go back or back, or stand in step, that's why we have to move forward with confidence and with determination to continue improving the National Health Service, as we have done over these two years and how we have to continue to do. Because if there are more than 300 000 consultations in hospitals today is because these changes have been made, if there are more 19,000 surgeries in hospitals it is because these changes have been made. It is this change that we must continue so that the path can be properly completed. If you ask what the option is, the option is, of course, to continue this path. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, as you know, each of us chooses his calendars. The Government announced, in time and time, that it would present its proposal for a basic law for public discussion in September. The Left Block has decided to advance a bill on the same matter—it is an option of the Left Block, with which we have nothing to do with it—but the timetable we had proposed was decided and announced. Finally, I wanted to conclude by saying to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, very clearly, the following: management is not only in our heart, but also in our head, with the same confidence and determination that we began to build it with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Green Ecologist Party, to which we, with satisfaction, saw the Left Block join. And we are not only with the heart, but also with humility and without duplicity. This is how we will go on to the end: with humility and without duplicity! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u185	At the end of the Question Time to Mr Prime Minister, we turn to interventions which, as you know, will be made in a decreasing order of representativeness of parliamentary groups. Let us begin with the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party. Mr Fernando Negrão, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u186	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Having heard the self-sufficient and satisfactory speech of the Prime Minister at the beginning of this debate — and I remember that Mr. Prime Minister has come to designate this legislative year as a tasty year — he is led to think that Portugal is better than ever and that the improvements made are work and exclusive grace of the action of the Government. the Social Democratic Party does not find it difficult to recognize the results achieved, in particular those achieved in the correct public accounts. However, we know that, unlike the self-proclamations of success of the left majority, these results are due to a set of factors, that government action, if it is not furnished, is at least very diluted. In some cases, it will even be said that results have been achieved, despite the action of the government! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u187	First of all, because the PS inherited, in 2015, a country in full recovery, with unemployment decreasing... [[PS protests.]] I know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they like to talk about the former government because they don't have a single word to talk about yours! I know! [[PSD applause and PS counterprotests.]] As I was saying, first of all, because the PS inherited in 2015 a country in full recovery, with the unemployment to be reduced and the employment to increase, with the economy to grow, with the rebalanced public accounts and with the restored external credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u188	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u189	This was the country that the PS found when it created a "managed" way of ruling, without having won the elections. A country incomparably better than the one that had left us in 2011 when it took us to the edge of bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And whatever they insist, invent, or even lie, this is how the country has been left to us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u190	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u191	Secondly, because the PSD/CDS government had the courage to make the structural reforms necessary for us to face the future with more confidence and more certainty, reforms that the PS now reaps fruit, as the main international institutions testify. Thirdly, and the result of this reformist spirit, the main merit of economic recovery is for Portuguese families and companies that promote employment, create wealth and advance Portugal. We reject the ideological blindness of those who deny this fact! And finally, because the Government has benefited from a very favourable external environment, with the monetary policy of the European Central Bank which has allowed the Portuguese State to finance itself at exceptionally low costs, with the explosion of tourism in Portugal and with the positive moment that crosses the European economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u192	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u193	This is therefore a government that has limited itself to the ride of the international environment. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u194	But one thing is benefiting, another, quite different, is being able to take advantage. And the truth is that the government has not taken advantage of the conditions laid down to reform the country, making it stronger and more prepared for the less positive cycles that will inevitably come. This is because this government does not have a reformist matrix, because the genesis of this government and this majority has never been to do but, yes, to undo, because the nature of this left-wing majority is that of the scorpion, does not resist to do wrong when it can and promises to do good! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u195	Mr. Scorpions don't speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u196	And negative are also the numerous signs that will reach us. Portugal's growth is still one of the lowest in the European Union, when we should already be growing much more. Yesterday, the European Commission released the summer economic forecasts which put 20 countries growing more than Portugal in 2018 and 2019. Convergence with Europe is still far from being achieved. There is a very significant reduction in unemployment, and that is good. But we cannot be satisfied, because we cannot forget that there are today more than 160 000 young Portuguese people between the ages of 15 and 29 who do not work or study, the so-called 'no'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u197	That's talking more about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u198	in the same way, job creation is increasing, and that is positive. But we also know that the main feature of this new job is precariousness, low qualification and, above all, low wages. Emigration itself, which was previously criticized, has not been stagnated, and tens of thousands of young and less young continue to leave the country every month.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u199	A year, 100,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u200	And yet another sign: in 2017, the government imposed on the Portuguese the greatest tax burden of all time, a tax burden disguised and socially unfair that carries on indirect taxes and makes everyone pay the same way, whether rich or poor. And, in 2018, it was already seen that we are going along the same path, in a real assault on the pockets of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] And what better example to explain where we have come from than to mention the case of Ireland, a case as serious as ours: the same type of external intervention, the same or worse sacrifices. How are you now? The Irish economy is growing twice as much as ours. Double, Prime Minister! And what do they say and do their government and supporting parties? They simply say and repeat that the page of austerity has been turned. How many times have we heard this? Oh, my God! That's not true! What they did and do every day is to walk with the pages behind and hidden. That's what they do every day! [[PSD applause.]] The reality also does not hide that this is an exhausted government solution. When the Prime Minister says, and I quote, « when doing works on IP3, we are deciding not to make changes in careers or salaries », it breaks commitments in a disparate and light manner. If this isn't an exhausted government, then what is it? Oh, my God! Ask the teachers! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u201	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u202	When a government takes measures in an irresponsible and irresponsible way, how is it that it returns to 35 hours a week in public service, without ensuring the stability of public services, if this is not an exhausted government, then what is it? Oh, my God! Ask health professionals and users of the National Health Service! [[PSD applause.]] When a government continues to fail in its responsibilities and deny support due to populations after the 2017 fires, if this is not an exhausted government, then what is it? Oh, my God! Ask the victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande and the Central Region of the Country! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] When a government lets public services go down to an extreme point because of lack of investment, if this is not an exhausted government, then what is it? Oh, my God! Ask public transport users and students who have classes in schools where it rains and does not have heating! [[PSD applause.]] When a government says against precariousness and at the same time increases the number of precariouss working for the State, if this is not an exhausted government, then what is it? Oh, my God! Ask the thousands of workers, the green receipts, the central administration! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: There are numbers that the Government repeatedly repeats, but there are others who are afraid to deny debate after debate. But slowly, the Portuguese are realizing that the more taxes they pay, the more the state abandons them. The lack of investment and the policy of this government's capitulations help the deficit, but they have dramatically harmed the lives of Portuguese people. The continued degradation of public services today reaches levels never seen, with impacts on security, well-being and the quality of life of all of us. The health case is probably the most grueling. One year ago, Mr Health Minister said: "The National Health Service is now more accessible, efficient and sustainable" — end of quote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u203	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u204	Propaganda normally has a problem, which is this uncomfortable thing called « reality ». [[PSD applause.]] And the story that reality tells us is that of a National Health Service with no response capacity, which fails every day to the Portuguese, which diminishes the right of universal access to health, which depends on the effort and dedication of health professionals, who work in truly indignant conditions. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] When we talk about emergencies, detention units closed for lack of human resources, lack of equipment for complementary means of diagnosis, people to be observed in hospital corridors, children to be treated oncologically in containers, the government protects itself with accusations of case policy and invariably throws the blame on the previous government. We all know this all the time! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] For the sake of good memory, let us do again the exercise of retreating to 2011 when the PSD/CDS government has assumed functions. The debt of the National Health Service amounted to EUR 3.7 billion, which led some pharmaceutical companies to cut supplies. Cutting supplies means cutting medicines to users. It was at this end that we arrived!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u206	Between 2011 and 2015, the government led by the PSD and the CDS injected 2, 4 billion euros into the National Health Service to settle debts and late payments. We're talking about saving the National Health Service from the pre-bancarrot in which the socialist government has left it, as the country has left! [[PSD applause.]] And what does the current government do? Between November 2015 and November 2017, the amount of late payments for hospitals fell to 141 % by 141 %! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The Government does not invest in the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u207	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u208	And don't pay the bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u209	...and those who suffer, obviously, are the Portuguese. Every day more reports and complaints of poor health in Portugal come to the public — complaints from users due to the degradation of services and complaints from health professionals due to the deterioration of working conditions. Still this week, we learned that at the Hospital de São José, in Lisbon, emergencies ceased to guarantee mandatory 24-hour care to patients in the area of vascular surgery, increasing the risk of many patients. The justification is the lack of doctors and nurses for the new 35-hour weekly scales, in force since 1 July. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] in this same hospital, more than a dozen chiefs of medical and general surgery team presented their resignation, denouncing the lack of conditions in the emergencies, which are often handed over to inmates. In the Motherhood Alfredo da Costa there are closed delivery rooms. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Repeat, at the Motherland Alfredo of the Coast, delivery rooms are closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u210	But it still exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u211	A little across the country, in Keys,... [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u213	... in Lamego, in Vila Real, there are information about dozens of closed beds, which drastically reduces the response capacity of these hospitals. According to the Court of Auditors, the Hospitals of Santa Maria and Pulido Valente are in technical bankruptcy. This is the reality! The reality of a government that disbands and abandons the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese are tired of a government that is running away from responsibilities, that does not take the crap and that goes on vacation when the answers do not please him, a government that does not investigate, hides, does not investigate, invents guilty, those who are more at hand, a government that is not interested in preparing the truth, but in whitening serious faults with gentle words. As an example, this is what happened with Tanks — with Tanks! — a subject as revealing as the fragility of the government and in no way serious as it assumes the role of responsible for ensuring fundamental functions in areas of State sovereignty. After a year, the government continues to want us to forget about the theft of Tanks. But we will not forget and continue to act and demand clarification. [[PSD applause.]] We will continue to demand the transparency that has always been denied to the Portuguese people, because we have come to the point of being able to ask: after all, what does the government want to hide? [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u214	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: At the time we debate the state of the Nation, we cannot ignore a fundamental issue, that of corruption. It would be a childish form and even unworthy to claim that this problem does not exist in Portuguese society. Unfortunately, it exists in various forms, at the most varied levels, touching everyone. Corruption is one of the biggest cancers of democracy that we have to fight without quartel. It runs inside and destroys the foundations of our regime in an insidious and invisible way. If it is unacceptable under any circumstances, it is even more so in democracy. Despite the much to do, important steps have been taken in the fight against corruption in recent times. We owe it much to a free press, which denounces and gives visibility to many cases that would otherwise remain hidden from the shadows. But I owe it above all to the action of an autonomous and active Public Ministry, for which we must be careful to contribute to the improvement, strengthening and support of the work being carried out at every moment. [[PSD applause.]] It hurts who it hurts! The need for transparency also extends to the obligation that the Public Administration and State-owned enterprises have to provide information and clarification to the Portuguese in terms of information and clarification, and this leads us to once again speak of the General Deposit Box. It is not acceptable for the public bank, the bank in which Portuguese taxpayers have been constantly called to put billions of euros, to consider a State within the State and to refuse to provide essential information about its management and its situation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u215	We demand to know the list of the biggest debtors who are in breach, who have forced a colossal capitalisation effort and who endanger the sustainability of the public bank itself. [[PSD applause.]] And we do it not as a whim, we do it because it requires respect for the Portuguese! Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : On the subject of Europe, we know that the government is supported by anti-Europe parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u216	Anti-Europe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u217	... that require, whenever possible, Portugal's disunculation of the European project and of the single currency, but in reality, within doors, all do what is necessary to remain in power. [[BE's protests.]] If there were any doubts yesterday, the government ideologist, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, informed us that there would be only new management if the PS left the European Union or left NATO. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, your Minister has put his so-loved government solution in intensive care. Well, we know you tried to give an explanation, but Manuel Alegre already explained everything well: it was a shot at the heart of management! But as relevant are these political assessments and bipolar scenes of the left, such as the many and serious challenges the European project faces: the consequences of Brexit, the refugee crisis, the trade war with the United States or the reform of institutions. And as important as completing monetary union and providing the euro area with budgetary capacity is to identify, signal and understand the emergence of populist movements that have gained space throughout Europe in recent years. by ignoring them, we run the risk that they evolve from ice cubes to giant icebergs. History has already given us many important lessons about small movements that turn into great actions, for good and for evil. It's not time to be distracted, it's time to be alert, vigilant, and learn from history. Mr President, because we are on balance time, we can only conclude that whoever leads the country today is a majority that has both demagogic and illusionist, whose only common project is the desire to maintain the appearances of stability, because only that stability guarantees you the maintenance of power. Nothing else has to offer to the Portuguese and Portugal! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u218	But that does not hide the tremendous fragility and gross contradictions of this left-wing coalition, which does not hesitate to sacrifice the common well-being to the most fundamental instinct of political survival of each of the parties that composes this management. That is why you are not mistaken, Prime Minister: contrary to what you say, this management is not at the heart of the Portuguese. And you know why? Because the Portuguese don't let themselves be led by trusted conversation, by those who say one thing and do another, by those who don't honor your word! [[PSD applause.]] Unfortunately, there are many examples in which this government fails to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u219	We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u220	This is certainly not Portugal that the Social Democratic Party wants for the Portuguese. We defend a different path, an alternative of rigour, responsibility and truth, distinct from the current government pseudo-solution. We do not create false expectations for the Portuguese, nor do we promise what we know we cannot fulfill. Nor do we advocate that the State should be an end in itself, increasingly voracious, which needs to be fed. A state that wants to intervene in everything not to regulate, but to control. We do not want a statisticated Portugal, nor a society guided by collectiveist ideas. We believe in the value of people above all things! This is a rule that's in our DNA, this is our rule! [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, we would have reduced public debt, which constitutes a real time bomb, especially in the worst times that will surely come;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u221	They never did it in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u222	... we would have taken steps to promote fiscal competitiveness, the benefit of the economy and investment, which the country needs so much; we would have advanced the reform of social security, an area where, in the name of the dignity of the people, it is urgent to intervene, and the later that is done worse and more irreversible may be the consequences;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u223	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u224	... we would have, in fact, done it as an opposition party, which is the great demonstration of the inefficiencies of this government, advanced to a strategy, with setting goals and defining measures in the area of demography, because Portugal is one of the European countries where fertility and birth rates are lower. This is a set of necessary measures for the country in strategic and structuring areas for the future, but none of this has been done by the government! In conclusion, we are living a moment of national anesthesia, the result of government propaganda, but the day will come—and it will not take long! — in which one will realize that this was a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u225	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u226	This last year's legislative year had nothing to taste, Mr Prime Minister, this was a particularly bitter year for all Portuguese! [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u227	Mr Fernando Negrão, for clarification Mr António Sales. Although you do not have time to answer, Mr.António Sales wants to ask for clarification, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u228	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando Negrão, you spent three quarters of your speech talking about the National Health Service and did not leave time to respond. You must have a very heavy, very heavy conscience! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Fernando Negrão knows that the recovery of public health services was one of the main commitments made by this government. This has been the way we have been continuing in these two and a half years, already with evidence given to improve Portuguese access to health care and, therefore, with more people making use of public health services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u229	Today we have more consultations, more surgeries, more human resources and more public funding. Patients today claim to have faster response times in consultations and surgeries, to have less waiting time in emergencies, to have more innovative medicines. But, Mr President, in a recent past, they came to the Assembly of the Republic to ask them not to let them die, and you remember that very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, these two realities are so different and so opposed. Between 2011 and 2015, health professionals were on strike because you cut in wages, cut in the payment of extraordinary hours, increased the hour load, frozen careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u230	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u231	Today, health professionals strike because they want to restore working hours, because they want to improve wage conditions and because they want to make progress in careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this is the line that really separates us from the right. As long as you, impedibly, have cut, we reject, and we reject with social sensitivity and budgetary responsibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we cannot allow hidden political forces or agendas to repeat lies until they appear true and explore less positive cases to undermine the effort and offend the dignity of our professionals and users, who rely on the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Mr Fernando Negrão, this government is repeatedly accused by VV. Ex., on the one hand, to exercise bold austerity and, on the other hand, to be costly and lazy when investing in human resources, in particular to provide 35 hours a week. What are we in, Mr? The PSD has to assume before the Portuguese people whether or not it agrees with its former coalition colleague Deputy Assunção Cristos, who criticized the replacement of 35 hours a week and said that the Portuguese needed to work much more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u232	Mr President, as I have just mentioned, Mr Fernando Negrão has no time to answer, so we are going to the next intervention. Thus, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u233	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: I begin by addressing Mr Fernando Negrão - telling him that this nostalgia of 2011 is after him - and I cannot help remembering Trucks « That child/ who has me as a child, / because in her I live, / no longer wants me to live. Do not keep on seeking. ” It embraces the future, free, honourable Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no greater error, in the analysis of policies for culture, than when it demeans its framework in all the concerted actions of the various areas of governance that converge on communicating vessels for the same objective: to develop culturally the country, to train Portuguese, to strengthen the economic value of culture and to consolidate the cultural heritage of the world. Today, the weight of culture in Portugal is measured not only by its growing role in the economy — cultural tourism has already reached more than 5 million visitors in the Portuguese museums in 2017, more than 60 % than in 2012, in the increase of exports in sectors where creativity and design are fundamental and, in particular, in the internationalisation and prestige of our architecture, but also by the capacity of external representation, of the link to diaspora, to the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) and to a large and enormous world where Portugal has gone and there has left the language and heritage. Almost all the action of Instituto Camões is cultural. I remember here the Meridian Project, recently created by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose scope is cultural and that runs in the Trucks. As we see in this government, culture has no owner, no division, it measures itself by increasing cultural activity, unstoppable in creativity and innovation, whose sector crosses crises and Tropics, but does not disarm and strengthen its quality in all areas. It is thanks to this dynamism that DGARTES (Directorate-General of the Arts) competitions have recorded the greatest ever increase in applications. There were more than 40 % of candidates in 2018, which led to an extraordinary increase of 80 % of the funding of the Programme — plus 20 million! in this European Year of Cultural Heritage, Portugal is one of three countries in Europe, alongside Germany and Ireland, with more initiatives in this area of heritage, as confirmed by the European Commissioner responsible for education, culture, youth and sport, Tibor Navracsics. More than 1200 initiatives were presented only in the first half of this year in this area, involving 83 authorities. It is also the convergence for Europe of Knowledge by 2030 that has led to Portugal's assertion in the field of science as well. The resumption of international programmes that had been interrupted by the previous government, the Go Portugal Program and the collaborations with Carnegie Mellon University, with the MIT ( Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and with the University of Texas, in Austin, are good examples of the resumption of the heritage path of Mariano Gago. It is also the government's investment in science that has confirmed a strategy for qualified employment, because the more qualified and competitive Portuguese are the more educated, more efficient and more qualified are, on the contrary, My Lords, of the times when they advocate technical courses at the age of 13, in which there were less licensed and in which there were sales of art to pay the debts of banks. It is in this consultation of joint government actions between themselves that cultural policy should be evaluated, because transversality is not an empty word here. He had taken all areas of governance to have this universality! It is in this impulse of the appreciation of culture and knowledge that the policies of acquisitions resumed, the recovery of heritage. That is why, Prime Minister, we are very close to 1 % of the State budget for culture. But we want more, and I know that Mr. Prime Minister also wants. If we arrive, and when we reach 1%, it will be with you as Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u234	Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification. For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u235	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Government Members: It's not all right. We have problems that remain and new problems to solve. To recognize what's not right is not to say that everything is wrong, nor is to make a chorus with the right. In fact, those who question the Government and Parliament the most about what they are doing are those people who hope and trust in the possibilities open by the majority who left the 2015 elections. Confounding the popular requirement with the attacks on the right would be the worst of mistakes. Recognizing what's wrong is the first moment in responding to problems. That's what we've always done. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, in the years of this legislature, we were able to stop the cycle of impoverishment, we managed to reverse the dynamics of the economy and we managed to contain the social destruction executed by the right. That is why, at the end of three years of debate and negotiation, it is still possible to count on the Left Block — frontality in the debate and no temptation for political archaeology. We're proud of what we can do. I repeat, we are proud of what we have achieved! [[Congratulations from BE.]] We have proved that the recovery of income was not an obstacle, but a condition for budgetary consolidation. But those who have the responsibility to return hope also have the responsibility not to sell illusions and have the responsibility to pursue this path instead of retraining the country to the central policy. Today, the biggest problem facing the country is the lack of investment. It is about this lack that we are told by the users and professionals of the National Health Service, that is what is missing in the school, are the stopped trains, the enclosed courts, the abandoned interior. Investment is what's missing. And why is it missing? The government, which is cautious, will repeat that it wants to balance economic recovery and sustainability of public accounts. But will it be so simple? To talk about the sustainability of public accounts is to talk about debt and the economy — these are the decisive variables. To ensure the sustainability of public accounts is to ensure the sustainability of the economy, to invest in a robust economy, with a strong social state and qualified and valued employment. For that, we need investment now, it's not 50 years from now, after we've drained endless resources and we'll find out that debt is there. Other countries have gone through this. Let's learn from your experience. The 2008 financial crisis caught a country with a debt to around 70 %. Today, it is 125 %, despite, or rather by saying, because of the trail of destruction in our economy, which included the sale to the destruction of strategic and lucrative companies. This is what some call 'end of the crisis', in a dangerous game of denial of reality. We have almost twice as much public debt as GDP, much less resources to build an economy than we are facing, and we are totally dependent on measures by the European Central Bank to ensure low interest rates to the State and to the private sector. It is true that the Block and the PS have always had different perspectives on this matter, but it is no less certain that we agree that our indebtedness results from structural deficiencies and imbalances in the architecture of the euro area aggravated by an absolutely disastrous adjustment programme that has left the country even worse. More: we have already publicly agreed, together, that we need a restructuring that returns public debt to a path of sustainability by sharing responsibility between the country and its creditors, from the institutional point of view, for reasons of justice and for reasons of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u237	Three years ago, António Costa, when he was not yet Prime Minister, sent an operation to restructure Portuguese debt for when Italy imposed this issue on the European agenda. Italy has not done so and is now delivered to the extreme right. Then we had to wait for the German elections. The German elections have already been and Angela Merkel continues to chance with a pact with the extreme right. Now the ECB ( European Central Bank ) will multiply in warnings that the stimuli policy will end. This is the European Union that we have, not another one, and we must take it seriously. at a time when everything indicates that Draghi's successor will be a president of the German line, does the government agree to not have anything to solve the debt problem in 2019? We know that, in this respect, a European agreement is difficult and that a sovereign decision is also difficult. But these solutions have the advantage of being possible and, more importantly, have the advantage of, without them, the euro zone walking towards disintegration. A monetary union that fails to create financial solidarity mechanisms is a failed union. Bridge! It's not a union. If the euro area does not end the debt envelope, the debt will end the euro envelope. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister has told us that the government is very committed to reforming the euro area, but I also know that it has little news. What we have heard is Mário Centeno, in the skin of President of the Eurogroup, to repeat, as Dijsselbloen before him, that nothing can be done or that everything is already done. Deep down in the absurd European consensus, it is increasingly difficult for the Portuguese Government to explain their European choices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the left comes to the debate on foreign and European policy. He always comes! We did not run away from any of these debates. Why is there a lack of investment in public services left to hand over to the bank before, obeying Brussels, offering to the private? More than 9 billion in this legislation alone, more than 20 billion since the beginning of the crisis and more than 10 billion are already promised in the next 20 years — a billion-dollar investment in the bank to deliver it to the large international financial groups. Are teachers really the problem of public accounts? Anyone believe that? Why is the investment missing? Why is there a lack of investment in the territory and in the development of the interior of the same country that now promises NATO to spend more than EUR 1000 million each year on military expenditure? It's not in civil defense, it's not to respond to the needs of our country. Spend on military equipment and weapons that we don't need to buy garbage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u239	Why should we buy garbage and waste more than EUR 1000 million each year? This money is greater than that which would be necessary to restore the railway, which also creates jobs. This money is missing in schools, it could replace obsolete material in hospitals. Why do we accept the goals of Trump's wars while we keep science and culture in the penury? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Why is there a lack of investment in the National Health Service? Why do we deliver 40% of the total investment in health to private people? Why did the government put on the way to the law of bases of Arnaut and Semedo, which saves the SNS, the working group of Maria de Belém, whose report is music to the ears of the private business in health? Why does wages not accompany the growth of the economy? Why is there still work for so many and the hours of work for so many others? The reform of labour law carried out by the right and which the current government has promised employers to maintain essentially is a grinding machine of wages and rights. Every day that passes with this legislation in force is a day that is missing from the salary. Why did the government withdraw from the long-contributory career regime? Why are pensioners lacking what is not charged to the profits of large companies? Why do excessive rents that don't cut to the electrics continue to weigh in the light account? Why does the environment lack the courage to end concessions that only serve oil? Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are proud of what has been achieved. I repeat, we are proud of what has been achieved. But those who have the responsibility to return hope also have the responsibility not to sell illusions and the responsibility to pursue this path instead of retraining the country for the central policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] from the part of the Block, know that we will continue as we have so far: determined in the pursuit of the agreement that we signed in 2015, demanding in the defense of the country, of whom he lives here, of whom he wants to live, of whom he works, of whom he has worked his whole life. Here we are to negotiate a State budget that strengthens investment in health, transport, education, science and culture, which does justice in the early retirements of long careers, which lowers the price of energy. Here we are for the increase of the minimum wage, to bind precarious workers, to stop evictions and build public responses in housing. Here we are to fulfill the commitment with whom we work. We will, as always, be the strength to find solutions. He wants the government to find them with the left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u240	For an intervention, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u241	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : Public services in collapse, hospital services that close, family health units that do not open, railway in critical state, teachers on strike, students waiting, consultations late, cancelled surgeries, public transport missing, economic growth below the supposed, public investment in historic minimums, inefficient civil protection, tax burden at the most historical, never seen captivations, debts to suppliers to gallop, science in crisis, cultural sector to their fate, social mobility to remove us from the European media, a debt that is not controlled, European taxes that want us to impose, armed military installations, an interior that sees its tax status postponed. All this when the country continues to seek to recover from the greatest tragedy it has experienced in recent decades. This is the portrait of the country today. We don't talk about bankruptcy country, no money to pay pensions. We are not talking about the intervention country, having to borrow under the penalty of collapse. We don't talk about the country of the troika, with the Memorandum left by José Socrates. We speak, yes, of the country ruled by the left, of the country with three budgets from the left, of the country that followed the policies of the left and that therefore has what always happens when the left ones lean to put into practice their fantasies. A country that grows less than its competitors, an economy that closes rather than open, companies that are seen as enemies, private property considered as detail, freedom of choice that is eliminated, profit as sin, the private sector as target, the desire to go looking for money where it exists. Is there less unemployment? Yes, thanks to the job reform that has been left to you. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u242	There is some investment,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u243	... thanks to tourism and urban rehabilitation that you inherited. There is a income policy, it is true, which was initiated in the previous government. But everything else to do, taking advantage of the best international environment in recent years, you have left to do. Because they didn't want to. The wages do not take off, the economy does not take off, we have 20 countries ahead of us in Europe, with regard to economic growth. We have worsened all the investment attraction indicators. Lack of vocational training and lack of skilled labour. In the economy, the country progresses by the efforts of many companies, the joint effort of entrepreneurs and workers, despite your government. [[CDS applause.]] The choice to depend on Trotskyists and communists to rule was yours, Prime Minister. The attraction of parties that do not accept Europe and do not understand the private sector is yours, Mr. Prime Minister. The desire to govern at the pace of the irresponsible demands of whom you have never governed is yours, Prime Minister. The fantasies on the left are yours. The irresponsibility of the left is yours. The populism on the left is yours. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I give you an example: the 35 hours that you approved, without ensuring that the services were prepared to account for the matter, when what you should have done was to approve this measure, yes, but after all prepared, so that the users of the services would not suffer consequences. But what he was interested in was to get votes, leaving the consequences behind. And they are serious—they are the best example of their disastrous governance. In health, to take the most grueling example of the impact of this irresponsibility, what we see is the deep chaos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u244	You'll find out the hand of the CDS on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u245	Hospital São João, in Porto, Hospital da Guarda, Hospital São José, in Lisbon, Hospital de Trás-os-Montes, with beds to close, assistance to decrease, consultations delayed, surgeries cancelled, doctors and nurses, exhausted, resigning and outright denouncing the situation experienced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u246	They're exhausted, but I wanted 40 hours of work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u247	We see the family health units stopped, the continuing care units desperate with no payments. This is your government. It is the government that fails on a day-to-day basis by all of us, Portuguese. It is the government that fails in what is visible every day in the eyes of all of us. It fails, ironically, in areas that have always claimed as exclusive to the left, from health to education, from culture to social policies. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is the impreparation government of Tankos which continues to clarify — and we do not forget. There is the drama of fires, which are very alive in our memory. There is a 35-hour decision, which took thousands of hours of patient assistance. It's the government of skills. It is the government who thinks that it can go on top of everything and everyone, who approves agreements in social consultation for which it does not have a parliamentary majority, which promises fiscal neutrality in fuels — and now, after all, the scheme has been unmasked, it says that the tax is green — which puts into the law commitments that, after that, it does not meet the teachers. It's the government of contradictions. at the same time as it wants policies for affordable income, it puts its properties to rent at high prices. at the same time that it has partners to demand debt renegotiation, it does not make a loud voice in Brussels demanding favourable treatment under debt conditions. at the same time that it says to combat precariousness, it increases the precariousness in the state. It's the government of jokes and fragility. With members of the government assuming that « everyone is Centeno », others simply non-existent, when there is no cross-cutting negotiations with teachers, others, still unable to understand their own role, when they sign a manifesto against themselves. Others who show total inability to obtain good Community funds for agriculture or cohesion. It is your Government, Prime Minister, of your Socialist Party, of your sided left. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need a political, non-socialist alternative in Portugal. In the CDS, we are building this alternative, because it is obvious that this model is exhausted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u248	The PSD you take care of!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u249	If socialism were good, if communism were good, if Trotskyism were good, we would not have called the IMF (International Monetary Fund) for three times in 40 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u250	And fascism, was it good? Oh, my God! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u251	We need to get out of this socialist model. We are building an alternative that believes in people's initiative, in their work, in their efforts. An alternative that trusts companies, in their ability to generate wealth and employment. An alternative that knows that, in order to have a generous and sustainable state from a social point of view, we need to have an economic policy with economic freedom. An alternative that believes in merit, rigor, evaluation, both in the public and in the private. An alternative that does not want to eliminate wealth, but poverty, and that therefore commits itself to equal opportunities. An alternative that believes in a Europe of States and nations and in economic freedom. An alternative that does not look at people as electoral groups, an alternative that does not coincide with parties that actively support dictatorships. [[CDS-PP applause.]] An alternative that does not dream of a central bloc of interests, the eternal Treaty of Tordesillas of Portuguese politics. An alternative that does not ambitious the entire population employed in the State. An alternative that does not distrust profit. An alternative that considers birth to be a major issue. An alternative that fights for the freedom of choice of each and every family. An alternative that respects the social sector, in a true social state of partnership. An alternative that assumes, with seriousness and depth, the demographic issue, of support for birth, active aging and the protection of life, family and older people. And I am surprised, Prime Minister, that in the 26 minutes of his speech, birth or demography did not even have a reference. Short passions, these, of the Socialist Party. An alternative that understands the interior of the country and territorial cohesion as an absolutely priority point, to be seen in the light of climate change and water scarcity. The cohesion of a territory which includes betting on agriculture and giving priority to the completion of the sea. An alternative that looks forward to the opportunities and risks of the new digital economy and prepares the country to seize the opportunities, on the one hand, and to guard the risks, on the other, by protecting and leaving no one behind. An alternative that treats all, national or immigrants, as full people, that takes no one as an instrument to meet the needs of our society and presents rigour in entry and humanity in integration, always keeping in mind our immigrants and how often we would like them to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u252	Of course, they pushed us there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u253	In the CDS, we work hard to build this alternative, every day, here and on the street, through the whole country, listening carefully, understanding the reasons of all of us, Portuguese. And keeping our clear path of positive policy as, moreover, we have demonstrated abundantly in this Legislative Session. For each complaint, a proposal. For each critique, an alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u254	For every sentence, a slogan.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u255	And I refer only to three legislative packages: with consistent initiatives for education, once again rejected; the speed of justice, for more than four months, waiting for the proposals of the other parties or, even last week, in the presentation of another consistent set of proposals, this time of more beneficial taxation for the interior of the country. This, not to mention numerous legislative initiatives, most of them rejected, but some successfully, such as transparency in seizures, revealing the list of bank debtors when there is support for public money or various measures in the area of disability or the law on the rights of end-of-life patients. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the CDS we will continue our course, with studied, serious and consistent proposals, from demography to health, from justice to climate, from agriculture to water, from inland to sea. Until the last minute of this legislation, we will be an acquitting opposition to the left-wing Government. A constructive opposition, constructive of an alternative that we do not refer to the timely future, but that will be revealed every month, to each legislative package, to each project, at every moment, always giving, but always our best.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u256	We're afraid of your best!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u257	And do not doubt, for a second, the strength of our convictions. Portugal needs an alternative to socialism and the CDS is definitely in the front line of the construction of this alternative. [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u258	I now give the floor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u259	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State of the Nation is the state of a country in which there is progress, but which needs another policy to ensure its future. The offensive against the rights of workers and the people that were in progress with the policy of the PECs (special payment on behalf of the Troika) and the pact of aggression of the troika and measures were taken to defend, replace and conquer rights and to respond to some of the most immediate problems of the workers and the people. But the options made by the current PS Government in central government action issues have not reversed the direction of national decline and submission to the interests of the European Union's capital and taxes. The positive measures for workers and the people taken over the past two and a half years do not eliminate the problems accumulated in more than four decades of right-wing policy, but give the clear notion of the path to be taken: to continue to defend, restore and conquer rights; to take further the response to the problems of workers and the people; and to realize a true alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that responds to the structural problems of the country and to ensure its sovereign development. The CFP maintains its determination to continue to fight for all the advances that can be achieved in the context of the struggle for alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, to fight this necessary in the face of the country's situation, a country affected by serious economic and social problems arising from the domain by national and mainly foreign monopolies, which creates promiscuities, generates corruption, transfers control over strategic sectors abroad and puts out of the country billions of euros in dividends. These are problems that are present in the CTT, PT, ANA - Airports, which place their profits in front of the national interest, in the privatized GALP and in fuel with cartelized prices, in the excessive and super-lucre incomes of EDP, in the drainage of public money to the bank, of which is the new injection of capital in the New Bank. This is a country marked by the policy that insists on labour legislation in favour of exploitation and precarious and without rights, in which the agreement signed between the PS Government and some social partners assumes particular seriousness with the maintenance of the lapse of collective bargaining, the refusal to apply the principle of the most favourable treatment, the introduction of elements of legitimization of precariousness and forms of deregulation of working hours, this policy which plans for the future the abating weak framework and short retirement pensions, because with low wages for today's young people there are no reforms worthy of tomorrow's age.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u261	A country marked by the policy of abandonment of the interior and the rural world, with serious consequences, as was evident with the serious consequences of the tragic fires of 2017, whose recovery is far from complete. A country marked by the process of transferring competences to the authorities, in which the PSD agreed to give the PS the support that it did not have alone to place behind the central authorities responsibilities, attacking the democratic local power and calling into question the universality of social rights. But it is also a country marked by the obsession with the deficit and the refusal to renegotiate debt, which, among other things, prevents public investment, improving public services and the exploitation of its workers. The health situation is particularly worrisome. A powerful operation against the SNS is under way. largely fed by public resources, private health groups want to continue to expand their business and increase their profits at the expense of the degradation of the SNS and the capture of their professionals and users. They therefore launched against the National Health Service the campaign that is underway from real problems, resulting from decades of lack of investment, lack of staff, lack of capacity to respond to users, lack of necessary measures by the current government. The Government is required to take the necessary measures to invest in the SNS, to hire staff, to invest in equipment and infrastructure, but also to put an end to the regulation of private groups, to transform health into a business and to finance it with public resources, which must be allocated to the SNS. In education, concern is not less: professionals are lacking and investments. Thus, the Government is required to hire the workers in need, to link those in precarious circumstances and to make the necessary investment in infrastructure and school equipment, to ensure, as the State Budget Act states, the full counting of the time of service provided by teachers and other workers with specific careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u263	In transport there are also serious concerns that need to be addressed with increased investment, adequate maintenance of equipment, modernisation of public transport companies and the enhancement of their workers. In health, education and transport, such as social protection, science and culture, justice, support for productive sectors and national production, public investment is a central aspect in overcoming the serious problems facing the country and which continue to be expanded by the consequences of submission to EU taxation. The Government is zealously fulfilling the European Union's demands against national interest, hoping that this will be offset by solutions that will never come from a European Union more concerned with enhancing its neoliberal, militaristic and federalist dynamics. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We need to make choices! It is necessary to make choices that serve the workers, the people and the country, and this requires to break with the constraints that hinder the development of the country, such as the submission to the euro and the service of an unsustainable debt that will suck 35 billion euros in interest up to 2022. It is necessary to make choices that require that economic growth margins be channelled to areas such as investment, the defence of national production and the strengthening of public services and not to ensure everything and quickly to the European Union, the ECB, markets and monopoly capital. It is necessary to make choices that require the drainage of EUR 2000 million per year for PPPs or more than EUR 1200 million for swaps. It is necessary to make choices that require the avoidance of large capital to pay taxes by using tax havens and tax engineering. It was only in 2017 that EDP should have paid around EUR 400 million in taxes, but it paid only EUR 10 million. It is said that there is no money for everything, but there is always a lot of money left for a few!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u265	The solution to the serious problems of the country is not maintaining the same policy and the same failed model that led the country to backward and backward. The country needs clear answers, answers which, in the most immediate period, are expressed in the plans for the repeal of the serious standards of labour law; wages, ensuring its general increase in the private sector and in the public administration and in the national minimum wage by setting - at 650 € to 1 January 2019; the increase in public investment; the strengthening of social support, continuing extraordinary increase in pensions, universalization of family allowance, the right to reform without penalties; support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, including the elimination of the special payment on account; fiscal policy, taxing the furniture heritage, profits and dividends and undermining labour income; effective support for culture; the replacement of VAT in electricity and gas in 6 %; support for family agriculture and the rural world; and to address the consequences of fires. Portugal needs a patriotic and left-wing policy to respond to its problems. A patriotic and left-wing policy that frees the country from submission to the euro and from the European Union's taxes and constraints and defends the renegotiation of debt. A patriotic and left-wing policy that necessarily goes by putting Portugal to produce, with more agriculture, more fisheries, more industry, creating more wealth and distributing it better, supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. A patriotic and left-wing policy of valuing work and workers, of pensioners and pensioners, of guaranteeing the right of everyone to health, education, culture, housing, social protection, transport. This is the way, this is the alternative for a future Portugal and it is for this policy that the CFP will fight and fight, pursuing the goal of a better life for the Portuguese people and the inalienable right to decide about the future of their homeland. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u266	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : On the resolution of the problems of the country, the illustration that you made recently of the motorway where you can walk to 90, 100 or 120 km/h will be a problem for the country if the Government decides to walk to 30 or 40 km/h on that motorway and much more will be a problem for the country if the Government decides to move back to that highway, as it is doing for labour law, for example. I would also like to say to you, Mr Prime Minister, that I believe that the Portuguese will not understand that there is an increase in expenditure on NATO — let us be clear — that there is never a problem in making money available to the bank, that you are working to put the deficit even below what is planned and that you are always going to shrink and say that it is very difficult to invest in health, education, culture, science, transport, the environment... There are clear options that have to be made! I would like to say that, in terms of priorities, the Greens consider it essential to leverage and invest in the productive activity of the country, in combating regional asymmetries, in combating poverty, which is still fat in this country, in public services, so that they can serve the citizens, and in better environmental standards. More resources are therefore needed, particularly in order to prevent and combat pollution, but also more incentives to stimulate better environmental behaviour and more participation by populations, particularly in the environmental area. We therefore need an environmental impact assessment on the prospecting of oil off Aljezur and we also need a strategic environmental assessment on the new airport. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to denounce here, clearly, the strong demagogy that the right has used in this debate and which, unfortunately, is the grip of all its interventions. To the right, when he ruled nothing was possible; in opposition, everything is possible! But beware, it is what is asked of the Portuguese, since this speech is absolutely nothing to the truth, because the right voted against the increase in wages, voted against the increase in pensions, voted against the replacement of holidays, voted against the 35 hours of weekly work, because the right voted against all that was necessary to restore dignity and quality of life to the Portuguese. This right is a liar! This right can't believe it! [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] We must promote an alternative! The Greens are prepared to promote an alternative policy in the country. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u268	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u269	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Humanity represents only 0, 01 % of world biodiversity. And in the period that many scientists designate as Anthropocene, the human being has already extinguished three-quarters of mammal species and half of the world's plant biodiversity. In Portugal, if it is a fact that we have reduced unemployment, deficits and improved some income replacement indicators, it is also factual that in the last month we have reached the maximum capacity to regenerate our ecosystems. That is, if all countries had the levels of consumption in Portugal, we would need two planets. These data are clear and worrying, because we are all living on credit. Yes, in Portugal, we live above the capabilities of the planet. So the question is raised: what leads us as a nation, year after year, government after government, to implement such devastating economic policies for the environment? We shall attend, and shall attend, in this debate on the State of the Nation to the phenomenon of a political class in a clear state of denial. We deny that we continue to grow the economy at the expense of the most precious good we have: the environment. The scenario is black! According to the Portuguese Environment Agency, all underground water systems in the country are polluted due to the effects of intensive farming. in this regard, the Government and Parliament have been holding hands, encouraging and financially supporting these sectors, because for these the results of productivity are above environmental values. The CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) sends, Parliament obeys, the Minister of the Environment does not oppose and the Minister of Finance passes the check: here is the perfect equation of national agricultural policy. The bill of the galloping degradation of ecosystems, that, we all pay for it. On the contrary, the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture only exists in the role, without any support for its implementation. This is a paradox, insofar as the country continues not to invest in sustainable forms of production of healthy food, a fast growing line throughout Europe that Portugal is not accompanying. The debate on agriculture in Portugal summarizes the amount of the million that we are going to achieve or fail to achieve the Community funds. The state of denial is also reflected in energy policy. It is undeniable that there has been a change in political discourse. If initially the narrative of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment was merely knowing the country's geological resources, today the government already assumes the contradiction of wanting to decarbonize the economy and meet the Paris goals, exploring oil on the Portuguese coast. But more incomprehensible is being ignored the appeals of populations, municipalities and the scientific community to stop this exploitation. Surprisingly, and in counter-currently, the Government relies on the opinions of APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), which is no longer a department of the Ministry of Economics, to make us believe that the country's energy options are only technical and not political. Also in tourism is the state of denial. We want to grow at all costs and the results are the gentrification of cities, the brutal increase in the incomes of those who were born and have always lived in the neighborhoods and the unsustainable massification of the tourist offer. And this mismanagement scenario adds the government's wrong bet on building Montijo airport without performing a strategic environmental assessment. Once again, environmental values are being subjected to economic interests. Since memory is not short, it is impossible not to remember the fires of last year. Infringents are unpunished, there are still no safety lanes throughout the territory, municipalities, as we have already been accustomed to, in fact, do not want to take responsibility, firefighters operate without due means, lack nature watchers and emergency communication systems are not reliable. But the root problem is in the way we look at the forest: just like a mere economic well instead of looking at it as an ecological asset. Even at macroeconomic and financial level, we continue to be in denial. Instead of choosing to start the external debt negotiation process, thus freeing the country from the burden of interest and adding liquidity to the economy, we await the support of the omniscient markets and of the omnipresent European bureaucracy. in this impasse, the government continues to have difficulties in financing the National Health Service, in realizing the thawing in the progression of teachers careers and in prioritising, once and for all, the culture sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I end by warning that the deficit Portugal faces is, above all, of an ecological nature. It is of no use to try to solve asymmetries between regions or to find state responses to the problems of health, education, poverty, violence and intolerance, social and economic inequalities, while not making the paradigm change of how we live, produce, consume and manage common resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u270	Mr Edite Estrela, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u271	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world is dangerous. This is the opinion of 60% of respondents in a study by the Global Challenges Foundation, released this week. Indeed, armed conflicts are growing, inequalities between countries are accentuated, environmental problems are worsening, terrorism is a permanent threat and, as if this were not enough, there are leaders who, instead of promoting global balance, generate instability and tension. Multilateral cooperation seems to follow a new world order; traditional alliances are no longer what they were. This is how the world goes, and Europe is no better. Where there were previously policies of cohesion and solidarity, there are now nationalist egoisms and even disrespect for human rights. State discourse was replaced by demagogy, where extremism and populism grew. The Union is divided into essential matters, that the tragedy of refugees is the most visible example. There is also a leadership crisis in Europe. Einstein already stated that «the world is a dangerous place to live, not because of those who do evil, but because of those who observe and let evil happen». in this international context, Portugal is considered a port of shelter. This is the image of our country out there and that is the majority opinion here within, according to data from the Eurobarometer and opinion study centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u273	The statistics confirm that Portugal is better — as has been mentioned here in several interventions — and all this, all this economic growth, unemployment reduction, etc. , in addition to the replacement of income and consolidation of public accounts, it was done in just over two years. This good path must be continued with renewed ambition. It would be a great irresponsibility to question how much has been achieved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u274	As Mr President recently said, « when you are on the right path, you do not move on the way». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u275	Portugal has gained international admiration and respect, because it has changed its course, because it has turned the page of austerity, because it has promoted economic growth, because it has consolidated public accounts, because it has respected its international commitments. That is why we must continue to do more and better to ensure well-being for Portuguese and Portuguese, so that our young people can be professionally carried out and contribute to the country's progress and to continue to have more growth, better employment and more equality, to have even better Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u276	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u277	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are at the end of this debate, but we are still justified in a few brief words. We heard the speeches by Mr Fernando Negrão and Mrs Assunção Cristas, speeches from the PSD and CDS benches, and we would say-CL- if we were in front of a journey over time. It is because of the role of misfortunes brought here, it would be said that these interventions had been made in 2015 because they are well the portrait of the catastrophic state in which the Government of the PSD and the CDS left the country. [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u278	Still, with some failures, because they forgot to say that in 2015 there were these misfortunes all but that, besides, there were still salaries cut,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u279	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u280	... there were still cut pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u281	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u282	... there was still a much higher tax burden on labour income, while the restorative VAT was still 23 %. And they forgot about the evictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u283	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u284	It is that Mrs Assunción Cristas, significantly, has forgotten the evictions. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] But there is also a certain bipolarity here, which is to say « my gentlemen, be careful, because with this policy that follows, of reintroduction of income, there is still a risk of tragedy, of economic cataclysm and to which, any day, the country is in the misfortune in which we left it. Therefore, there is an absolute contradiction in the PSD and CDS discourse. [[Laughter and applause from the PCP and PS Members.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u285	What about the Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u286	But, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, what has been achieved in this Parliament, and for which the CFP has made a contribution that we are very proud of,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u287	Ah! What about hospitals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u288	...don't rest us. The successes achieved with our contribution do not rest us. We are aware of the difficulties of many Portuguese people, of the difficulties that public services in Portugal are experiencing, and we therefore think that we need to go further. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] That is why we also point out contradictions to government policy and speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u289	What about hospitals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u290	It is because the government, in order to be a good figure in Brussels and present good accounts of the deficit, is bad in Portugal. With the obsession of the deficit, much of what is being used, public resources that are being channelled are very much needed for the recovery of very large delays in education, the National Health Service and greater social support that the Portuguese lack in relation to the satisfaction of social rights, which are legitimate rights of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u291	Speak, speak, speak, but then always approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u292	... and whose satisfaction corresponds to expectations that have been created and that cannot be defrauded. At the end of this debate, we wanted to make it very clear that the Portuguese know that they can continue to count on the CFP to defend their fundamental rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u293	That is the speech of John Ratão, who fell into the Chaldeans!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u294	... that we are proud of the contribution we have given...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u295	And what contribution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u296	...for what improved in this legislation, but that we do not rest. We believe that it is possible to go further and that it is possible, coherently, to carry out a policy that meets legitimate expectations and fundamental social rights to which Portuguese people are entitled. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u297	Mr Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u298	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is common to say that politics is the art of possible. But with this government politics has been practically the art of impossible. In two and a half years of government, the PS managed to reverse the essential policies imposed on the country by the right for four years and move forward to a model of society that puts people and their well-being first, with special attention to the most vulnerable. That is why it is not possible to talk about the state of the nation without talking about the concrete issues that have contributed so much to improve the quality of life of citizens. I am directly referring to the reversal of various social policies, recovering income and rights, in the labour market, in the family, in disability, in precariousness and poverty and in so many other matters. I'm going to point out a few examples. In the Public Administration, there was a priority, inclusive view based on the valorization of its employees, an irreplaceable pillar of true reform, in contrast to the constant disrespect and humiliation to which they were subjected by the previous government; the recovery of 35 hours of work per week; the regularization of precarious workers. In the private sector, I stress the defense, promotion and agileization of collective bargaining, ignifying the social dialogue and extending the protection of workers. The wages, by convention, grew by 2, 6 %, contrary to what was said here, and the national minimum wage in three years had an increase of almost 15 % plus 75 €, its greatest ever increase. [[All right.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u299	With regard to the fight against precariousness and poverty, there is a record of the thawing and successive increases in pensions, an increase in the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion; a strengthening of the protection of workers on a green basis; positive changes in the conditions of access to unemployment benefit; an increase in the IAS (indexant of social support) and family allowance. With regard to social consultation, we welcome its withdrawal from the virtual state, implementing agreements to defend decent work. on this path, we will continue our work with the responsibility of always, making ourselves available for a debate that, by preserving the consistency of the agreement, helps to implement it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u300	The truth is that, directly or indirectly, the right has always voted against any measure that combats poverty and precariousness — minimum wage, PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration), transmission of establishment, replacement of income, holidays, rights — always announcing the worst cataclysms. Not only did no catastrophe happen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u301	Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u302	What about Pedrogan? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u303	... as 300 000 new jobs were created and unemployment fell to levels almost a decade ago, with a marked decline in young unemployment, also registering itself in a segment as complicated as long-term unemployment, a reduction. Are we satisfied? No, we are not, nor will we ever be while there are inequalities in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u304	Mr César, also from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u305	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : Last year of this Parliament — the road is already set, but it is not entirely done. It is therefore justified that, in the search for the truth, the PS assessment of the risks in the presence, the successes achieved and, in the same way, the work and the ambitions to be carried out should be recorded here. We will not lose ourselves at proper expense, as we are not disturbed by the noise of opposition that another project does not have to be that of denial. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It must be said that not all we did was all we had to do and not all we did was done well. But we do not miss the truth to the Portuguese, nor do we break with the recommended humility if we say that we have done so much and that we have done so much well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, the Government and the PS have supported and encouraged their parliamentary partners, who have ensured the investment of the government and the implementation of measures resulting from budgetary laws. We count on your support to leave where we left and to get where we arrived. This means that we share our successes with them in the same way that we share our difficulties. We will certainly continue this work, strengthening and reinventing, as we have done, a convergence that has never harmed and that will never harm the identity and autonomy of each of the political forces involved in this so innovative and rewarding cooperation has been for our country and for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the successes we have achieved should not deviate from the need to respond more readily to the remaining concerns and difficulties. We know that the challenges continue to be many, in a country still subject to significant financial constraints and an external framework that is not free from risks and threats. In fact, according to the projections made yesterday by the European Commission, this year Portugal will have a growth of its economy higher than that of the European Union as a whole, or that of the euro area, which means that we will be converging with Europe for the second consecutive year and at the end of 17 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we must not, nor can we, ignore signs that represent risks for us, since they can result from the rising geopolitical tensions and disunity in Europe, the slowing down of European economies, the evolution in other economic powers, the recovery of other tourist destination markets or changes in global trade policy that affect countries destined for our exports. We would like that of the euphemistically called 'adjustment period' had not resulted in an even more indebted country, at the same time as less resistant and socially and economically impoverished. The PSD/CDS Government was the only one in our democratic history that left the following government a gross domestic product inferior to the one it received. We would also like to see the budgetary targets now under our European commitments allowing for a smoother path in reducing deficit and debt or other solutions to be changed. But it is also true that, at the external level, the way in which the Government is certifying the quality of our management, increases confidence with our partners and prestigious, at the international level, the governance project of the Portuguese left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the previous government, policy gave priority to budgetary compression, by limiting the economy and, without sensitivity, public services and social benefits. With the current government we confirmed that there was an alternative: we preferred economic dynamisation and social protection, without neglecting budgetary consolidation. The results of these almost three years show that we follow in the most advised direction: we do not repeat the persecution austerity of the right, nor did we embrace impossible tasks that compromised the credibility of the left. With this change, Portugal is better and the lives of Portuguese as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is our obligation to prepare the country for all the contingencies, it is also up to us to take account of the many positive aspects acquired, recognizing that, in many cases, we are still short of what the ambition of a left-backed government demands. For example, we received a National Health Service in capacity loss, but we are already, as we have already pointed out today, to reverse the degradation that was observed with better responses, with more health professionals, with more investment, and now with less accumulated deficit, less late payments and less debt. We know, however, that recovery needs to be faster and that efficiency needs to be more widespread. The results in education also give us good news. For example, the number of young people who do not study or work is at the lowest level ever. School dropout was significantly reduced, and the tendency to reduce school failure was also reversed. But we do not satisfy ourselves, knowing that the fight against the shortage of qualifications is a task that is mixed with the most structural deficits in our country. We are also able to achieve the best position of the last 14 years in the world ranking of competitiveness already published this year. And investors note this perception: the foreign investment stock has grown more than EUR 8 billion since 2015. In 2017, Portugal also became the best position ever in the European innovation ranking. However, although we are above the European average in indicators such as the penetration of broadband in companies or in the production of new doctors on the 14th. the place we still occupy shows that we have to improve. After the public investment has risen three percentage points of GDP in 2017, this year will rise four more points, placing itself above the level of Ireland and Italy. Even so, it will continue below the euro area average, which has been happening since 2012. The effort will therefore have to continue. When this government took over, the turnover of the various sectors fell, consumer confidence was at least the year and economic climate at least the last nine months. That was the state of the nation! With the current government, consumer confidence is at a maximum of 21 years and the economic climate in the best value of the last 16. The economy has already grown 5, 4 %, private consumption 5, 9 %, investment 14, 5 % and exports 14, 7 %. This is the state that makes the difference! These are the results that tell us we are on the right track! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the truth that destroys the accuser and deputized lady who here made the parliamentary leaders of the PSD and the CDS-PP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, national minimum wage and pensions continue to increase, such as social benefits, particularly those aimed at combating child poverty. The available income of families has already increased by 8 %, values which are strongly opposed to the breakdown of 5 % recorded during the previous fiscal year. Over the past two years, we have made nearly 400 000 people no longer at risk of poverty and severe material deprivation. But there are still many who remain at this risk and who call our attention in a country still with many inequalities. Portugal has been the country of the euro area which has greatly reduced unemployment since January 2016. There are fewer than 34,000 unemployed young people than there was in the late government of Mr. Fernando Negrão. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are still many unemployed young people and there are, as the PS has said, many young people who remain vulnerable, who go through various jobs always under temporary conditions, delaying dreams, decisions and commitments, since buying a home to uncertainty about having or not having a child. That is why and for that, it is important to review the labour legislation that is now pending in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We do not lack reasons to be proud of what we have done and to mobilize ourselves for what we need to do. The PS will never miss the Portuguese people, because, if you miss, you will lack certain agenda and a left-wing government in our country. To think beyond today is our obligation, our agenda — a agenda far from being exhausted! This is an agenda of reformist policies that improve the efficiency and stability of social protection regimes, from public health to education, social security, transport or housing. It is an agenda of reformist policies, the planning of the territory to environmental sustainability, the organization and guarantees of work to economic competitiveness, innovation policies to science and technological incorporation, culture, public administration qualification, the enhancement of our natural resources from forest to sea. For all this it is important to continue to mobilize progressive energies and, as the PS defends, a prestigious and strong state, which guarantees internal security and justice close to citizens, a modern, agile, effective, intelligent and strategically entrepreneurial state, which stimulates civic participation and contributes to social and territorial cohesion. This is our commitment: overcome the difficulties, continue the successes, continue the way and take care of the future. It is to make Portuguese left one of the reasons for winning Portugal. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u306	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of 2015 the Government presented itself in this House to undertake a commitment with Portugal which can be synthesized in this simple way: to ensure convergence with Europe with more social cohesion and greater territorial cohesion. It was a serious and ambitious commitment, as serious as it is clear. It meant that the economy grew above the European Union's average, that social inequalities were reduced and that regional imbalances were beginning to be corrected. It was such an ambitious commitment that many in this House considered it an impossible dream, a promise that, to be fulfilled, would precipitate the country in bankruptcy. This commitment could only be assumed, it could only be built because several forces represented here understood that it could and should be formulated. And today, when we debate the state of the Nation, we also discussed how this commitment was met. We do not live a miracle today, not everything is perfect, but some data are incontrovertible: today the economy grows more than the European Union. Even yesterday, the European Commission presented its growth projections by the end of this year, and for the first time in a decade assumed that Portugal would grow more than the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This growth is based on solid bases: in export growth, in investment growth. Private investment has grown 9 %, foreign direct investment is at the maximum of the usual stock. by the visas, investors do not fear the Government of the united Left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in front of social cohesion can be made the balance sheet. Inequalities have not increased, inequalities have decreased. They increased wages and pensions, not only the minimum wage but all wages in Portugal. Employment increased, unemployment decreased at the highest known level in Europe. In all regions of the country unemployment has been reduced by 30 % or 40 %. Unemployment among young people has been reduced in search of the first job or the long-term unemployed. The labour market works on a fairer basis. The Government has submitted a reform of labour legislation which, for the first time, intends to limit the appeal and the grounds for the term contract and its duration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The drop in and failure in school was reduced to levels that were unthinkable a few years ago. The population was reduced at risk of poverty. The migration balance was improved which, at the end of many years, became positive last year. Health indicators and the life expectancy of Portuguese have improved, and we have taken firm steps to increase business investment in the interior, how to create jobs that retain and attract the population. These results did not happen by chance, are the consequence of that commitment which in 2015 was assumed in this Chamber before the Portuguese and which was built and renewed every year. There are those who see other things beyond these facts; there are those who want to shed light on other matters; whoever says he delivered the country in good condition, but delivered a country whose gross domestic product had fallen 6 %. Only at the end of this year will we have again reached the gross domestic product of a decade ago. It was a lost decade. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There are those who regret the shortage of resources in the National Health Service, but it was the one who reduced public spending on health by EUR 1000 million per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are those who do not accept the support that has been given to the interior and now propose tax measures to support investment in the interior which he revoked in 2011 when he revoked the tax status of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There's even one who talks about the social security clock bomb. It seems that it is two or three years late, it is late at that time when it proposes a reduction in paid pensions by EUR 600 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, there are those who say that the needs are so many, they are new, who propose the creation of more deficits to increase public spending and who say that this will is not only assumed because the government is gripped by external constraints and wants to be good in front of Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u308	That's what the PCP and the Left Block say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u309	But the budgetary policy that we make does not result from foreign constraints; it simply happens to be a good policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Good financial management allowed us to pay less EUR 1000 million of public debt interest in 2018 than we paid in 2015. It is precisely this financial management that has released resources to increase SNS spending by EUR 700 million this year. That is what has enabled increased investment in science, education and public investment. Good economic policy has enabled the creation of more than 300 000 jobs and, as a result, the increase of contributions to social security by EUR 1600 million, making social security stronger and allowing, without surprise, the increase in pensions and social benefits. Economic growth has enabled the growth of tax revenue, allowing us to resume now healthy rates of public investment. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Good accounts are a good idea. It is because today we have a stronger situation and a more robust economy that we can renew our ambition and find new objectives: in strengthening science and culture, in the dignity and rejuvenation of Public Administration, in the development of the interior, in the reconciliation of family life and professional life, in the return of migrants, in strengthening public services, in transport, in infrastructure, in energy transition, in the decarbonization of the economy and in the circular economy. We cannot take greater steps than the leg, but our step is now firmer, safer and can make us raise new ambitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the clarity of the options of the 2015 commitment — more growth, more social justice, more territorial cohesion — it is totally obscure the alternative will expressed here through the repairs and criticisms that have been placed. But there is something we know, and the Portuguese also know: the alternative to the commitment made in 2015 will certainly have an opposite meaning to what has been travelled, which will not go along the path of reducing inequalities or more fair labour relations. We do not know what the alternative path would be, but we know that it is not about strengthening the rights and social situation of those who live in their work. So don't question the way down here. Only those who are interested in questioning the results achieved may want to question the basis on which they are based, and this is also clear: social justice and territorial cohesion are based on economic growth; economic growth needs investment and innovation; economic growth generates jobs, but these jobs have to be based on more fair and balanced labour relations and a strong government is needed to impose it; investment in our collective future requires good governance of public accounts today. This was the synthesis that made the 2015 commitment possible; it is the one that has come to allow it to be honored and in this synthesis it can establish the will to formulate new objectives. That's what the government wants, that's what the Portuguese are waiting for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate in the State of the Nation. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government for their presence. Meanwhile, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has entered the Bureau file that he will inform you of. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Bill No. 142 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the collection, processing, analysis, availability and use, storage and destruction of cells and tissues of human origin for scientific research purposes, including stem cells, which fall to 9. the Commission and the projects of lein. 943 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education ( NAP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 945 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the participation of IRS in the municipalities of the interior, ensuring its full return to the municipalities, amending Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 5. the Commission, 946 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening expenditure deductions with education and real estate for taxpayers resident in interior territories, amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission, 947 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increase in the period of exemption from municipal property tax ( IMI) for urban buildings for own and permanent housing situated in the territories of the interior, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1763 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — For compliance with the National Road Plan and full completion of the IP8 in the districts of Setúbal and Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1765 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and expand the airport of Horta ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission and 1766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the Horta airport track ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-13.u312	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda is the joint assessment, in general, of petition No 410 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They request that an amount be entered to support sterilization to dogs and cats in the State Budget for 2018 ( Maria Margarida Dias da Silva Garrido et al.) and draft resolutions 1660 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Monitoring and strengthening of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals ( BE ), 1710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess compliance with Law No 27 / 2016 and continue to invest in sterilisation and awareness campaigns ( PAN) and 1715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the impact of the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August prohibiting the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population, favouring sterilization ( PCP ). The second item of the agenda is the assessment of petition No 243 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for the adoption of a national strategy for the human dignity of homeless persons ( Community Life and Peace - Special Institution of Social Solidarity ). The third point shall be completed by the joint assessment of petition No 338/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They apply for VAT exemption in the services provided in the study centres and study rooms and explanations and deductions at the IRS as educational expenses ( João Miguel Rodrigues Cavaco and others) and, in general, of the projects of lein.o 919 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code in order to exempt from this tax the school explanation and support services provided by the study centres ( CDS-PP ) and 921 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In addition to the IRS Code, in order to allow lessons on subjects of official school in schools and study rooms and explanations to be deducted as educational expenses ( CDS-PP ). of the fourth item on the agenda is the joint assessment of petitions Nos 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure that the architecture is carried out by architects ( Daniel Fortuna do Couto and others) and 402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure the right to work, to the profession and to defend the acquired rights of technical agents of architecture and engineering ( Association of Technical Agents of Architecture and Engineering ). The fifth item on the agenda will be completed by the joint debate of petition No 433 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They call for measures to defend quality school meals in Portugal ( Frederico Pinho de Almeida and others) and, in general, for the following diplomas: Draft resolution No 1704 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annual assessment of the quality of school meals and particular conditions for contracting in the case of authorities ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 923 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Inability to make food establishments containing processed meat available in the canteens, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAPs); Bill No. 924 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Determines the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the cycle of basic education, ensuring greater quality in school meals (PAN) ; Bill No. 925 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Certain conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health on automatic sales machines of educational establishments with a view to the adoption of healthy eating habits and ensuring the quality of school meals (PAN) ; Draft resolution No 1718/ XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the creation of an organic structure, affects the Directorate-General for Education, responsible for food education in school, for the protection of quality meals in Portugal (NAP) ; Draft resolution No 1719 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary amendments to the order approving the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan for Meals served in the Education and Public Education Establishments for the defense of quality meals in Portugal (PAN) ; Bill No. 530 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the alternative supply of vegetable beverages under the school milk programme, promoting amendments to Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens) ; Bill No. 531 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the promotion of fruit and other healthy food products at school premises / bars, amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens) ; Bill No. 532 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Disincentives the sale of food exceeding sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens) ; Bill No. 586 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the provision of vegetable beverages in the school office by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ) ; Draft resolution No 1720 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Measures to promote the quality of school meals ( The Greens); Bill No. 926 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Public management of school canteens ( CFP ) ; Draft resolution No 1728 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local agricultural products to public canteens (BE); Bill No. 930 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recovery of public management of school canteens ( BE ). of the sixth point of the agenda is the assessment, together with petition No 460 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — I do not adopt this silence - illegal adoption of the IURD and the opening of a Parliamentary Inquiry Committee ( Anabela da Piedade et al.) of Bill No 844 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the Independent Technical Assessment Committee for the clearance of facts and analysis of procedures related to the alleged illegal adoption process in the IURD ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolution No 1729/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a Possible Commission for the investigation of procedures followed in the case of children who will have been irregularly referred for adoption as well as current procedures for adoption and promotion and protection of children and young people ( PSD ), in general. In seventh place, we will appreciate petition No 483 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Request for measures to find Américo Sebastião, Portuguese citizen, missing in Mozambique ( Maria de Salomé da Luz Pereira Sebastião and others). Finally, we have motion for a resolution No 67 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the International Agreement establishing the EU / ALC International Foundation, signed on 26 October 2016, in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, to which no time has been allocated for discussion. At the end of the debate, there will be electoral votes. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 2 minutes.]]
