ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that there are regiment votes at the end of the debate today — I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1329 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value and support the chestnut line ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission. A number of votes have also been put to the Bureau, either by greeting or by regret, which will be voted on in due course.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to get on the agenda, the first of which is from the appeal to the Government No 17 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — General policy focused on investment needs in public services, particularly in the health, education, transport and communications sectors ( CFP ). To intervene in the stage of the debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has promoted the scheduling of this request to the Government because the lives of people and the situation of strategic companies for the country require serious discussion and a concrete response that goes from words to acts. Public investment is pointed out by the CFP many years ago—again we say—as a central problem of the country's economic policy and development. Portugal needs a certain and effective bet on public investment, which dynamizes private investment, growth and employment and which responds to the needs of the country, the modernisation of its infrastructure and public services, from the outset to halt and reverse its degradation. What is at stake is the political options and the priorities assumed or not in defending the public interest, the living conditions of the people, but also the models of development that we want for the country. Years and years of de-investment in public services and in the social functions of the State have resulted in the closure of schools, extensions and health centres or services inconcentrated central administration, the degradation of social equipment, the abandonment of cultural heritage and the enormous shortage of workers in public and social functions. It is necessary to break this policy of budget cuts in companies, to exacerbate the exploitation of workers and to reduce operational frameworks, to de-investment in fleets and equipment, to abandon maintenance services, to privatization and to provide services to economic groups, to close lines and careers, to increase prices and tariffs. All of this contributed to a reality in which mobility problems are of the most common sense on the part of the population. According to Eurostat, there is a country in Europe that has more miles of motorway than rail, one single : Portugal. This has been the case since 2012, when the consequences of this policy of dismantling the national railway sector and public service and ruinous business of road PPPs became more evident. A few days ago, the CFP held its parliamentary days in the District of Portalegre, where the railway was sentenced to death by the previous government. So far, it is the only case of a railway service which has been closed and which has reopened, as a result of the struggle of populations and workers, in a remarkable process which must be an example to follow in our country and in which the decisive role of the Greens Ecological Party has taken on this reopening of the railway line must be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u6	But if it is necessary to stop and reverse the closure of railways and invest decisively in reopening and entering the service of lines that are needed to the populations, from Funcheira to Legions, passing through the Ramal da Lousã, it is no less evident and undisturbed the urgency of the maintenance and modernization of the rail network and the rolling stock, so that safe transport, quality and reliability can be ensured. It is a development factor and it is a right of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u8	People cannot continue to travel in the uncertainty of what will happen on obsolete trains, such as on the Cascais Line or throughout the regional railway service. People can't continue to travel like cane sardines in the metropolitan or to be confronted with unbearable waiting times or the removal of careers by ship failures. The situation reached calls for an emergency programme for investment in public transport and infrastructure, ensuring effective operating conditions, serving populations and creating conditions for the development and quality of life. Transport and logistics infrastructures must be integrated into a medium and long-term vision of national development, with the guarantee of its nature and public management and the incorporation of national production in its construction and maintenance. in CP ( Portugal Trains ), in EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company ), in Metro, Transtejo and Soflusa, it is necessary to ensure the human and technical means in the operation and maintenance services of these companies, to authorize the replacement of spare stocks, to initiate a fleet repair plan. It is necessary to move forward with the infrastructure modernization works and to launch the competitions for the acquisition of rolling stock for the railway on several lines of the national network and strengthen the presence at the stations, so that users and populations do not remain abandoned. Again recently, in the budgetary debate, the CFP intervenes by proposing the end of the restrictions on the hiring of more workers, which we value and which must be implemented. It also proposed the end of the use of so-called « captivations », which limit the company's response, and the strengthening of public investment by more than 23 million euros either in the Lisbon Metro, or in the river transport undertakings, which would be refused because it did not have a favourable vote of either the PS, PS, or the CDS. in the postal public service, he assists himself in deepening the disastrous path open with the privatization of TTCs, with the economic groups that control the company today decapitalize it, alienating property, degrading service at scandalous levels. When the Portuguese are confronted with the unsustainable situation of the postal service, the constant failures in the distribution, the systematic delay of the mail, the slowness and the lack of staff in the service, the response of private management was the announcement of the destruction of more than 800 jobs in the operational area, as well as the sale of more heritage and the closure of more stations. No government can passively witness this degradation and depredation of an unreplaceable company for the country and for the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u10	The country cannot accept the disintegration of strategic enterprises fundamental to the economy, it must first fight for the defence of these companies and for their integrity, modernization and development at the service of the national interest, which inevitably happens by their reversal to the public sphere. It is also the case of PT ( Portugal Telecom ), which must be held accountable and confronted by the Government and the competent authorities for the fulfilment of their obligations, without eliminating this central issue of public management. What is being watched in the areas affected by the fires of 2017, particularly those of October, is truly intolerable. People had phone calls in their homes, stopped having them with the fires, and PT / Altice pure and is simply leaving families without the service answered, claiming that fiber optics does not reach their homes or even take advantage of doing business with the misfortune, trying to impose new service packages to which they seek to see return the phone connection. The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure himself has already stated that the situations reported by the CFP were unacceptable. We add that many of these situations are known to the authorities and cannot continue to be unpunished. Also in the National Health Service ( SNS ) there are serious problems, which the PCP has been systematically pointing out. The SNS has been living for several decades in chronic underfunding situations due to its numerous infrastructure and equipment shortages, many of which are operating far beyond their lifetime. The shortage of doctors, nurses, health technicians, technical and operational assistants continues to be alarmed. It is this situation that does not allow a significant reduction in waiting times either in the consultations of the specialty, either in the surgeries, as well as prevents the requalification of the building or even the construction of new health units either at the level of primary health care, or at the level of hospital care, and still serves as a justification for sending a large part of the diagnostic examinations to clinics and private hospitals. in the hospital center of Aveiro, there are 20 doctors, 60 nurses and 68 operational assistants and are in debt to workers 26 000 hours of service. in the hospitals of Faro and Portimão, lack medical equipment, macas, wheelchairs. The lack of equipment, infrastructure, cars is felt in primary health care, since the ACES ( Grouping of Health Centres ) Alto Ave-Guimarães at the Lagoa Health Center. They are sensitive problems throughout the country, which require a structural response of rupture with these budgetary restrictions. in public school, sub-financing is reflected in the classroom and in the life of educational communities; it is reflected in the degradation of the school park, in the conditions of operation of schools, in particular due to the lack of operational assistants, psychologists and technical specialists for the follow-up of students; it is reflected in the teaching conditions, when obliged to an impracticable number of students per class or when several years of schooling are combined in the same class. Let teachers, students, parents, non-teachers protest against the lack of staff and even today have heard his voice, as was the case of the School Group of Forte da Casa, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira. Let the students of Antonio Arroio say so, right here in Lisbon, who have been without the canteen for seven years. To value public school is to strengthen financial, material and human resources, as a condition for promoting school success and to avoid school dropout. Modernizing the school park and the material conditions of schools, ensuring the appropriate pedagogical conditions, either by reducing mixed classes with non-sequential years, either by reducing the number of students per class, and strengthening the school social action is essential for the success of students and for the improvement of the teaching-learning process, a fundamental element in the integral formation of the individual. in this appeal to the government, the CFP will give voice to the people, the workers, the users of the public services that daily face the unacceptable conditions that the policies of abandonment, de-investment and surrender to the private have brought in public transport, mail, telecommunications, health, education. We bring to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the testimony of what we find on the ground, the real problems that affect people's lives, but we also bring and reaffirm the necessary answer, the solutions that cannot continue to be postponed, the measures and options that continue to be imposed as urgent and irreconcilable. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u11	At this stage of openness, Mr Pedro Marques has the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This request to the Government, requested by the CFP Parliamentary Group, provides us with a good opportunity to discuss in depth the situation of public investment. This debate takes place when the data from the 2017 budget implementation are known, which show a growth in public investment by 20 %. The local administration, in particular, has seen the greatest growth, which is explained by the acceleration of Portugal 2020 and by the willingness and determination of authorities to make the territorial investments essential to their populations, resolving the government — that is the part that has affected us — the paralysis in which we found Portugal 2020, with regard to territorial and regional investments. Although at that time two years had passed since the start of this Community programme, there had been virtually no competitions directed at the authorities, which blocked their investment. We solved bureaucratic and administrative barriers, launched competitions and contracted investment programmes and made more than 2800 million euros available for investment in the territories by the authorities. This dynamism resulted in the increase in public procurement, which, having reached its lowest point in 2015, grew 14 % in 2016, which in turn sustained the reported growth of 20 % in public investment in 2017. It is data that has strengthened the confidence of economic agents in the country's situation, but it also reinforces the confidence that, in 2017, a 38 % increase in procurement under public investment can thus be desired to reach the ambitioned 40% of growth in public investment that are planned in the State Budget for 2018. This discussion is also timely, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because it happens when we travel about half of this mandate. We therefore had the opportunity to reverse the path of degradation of public services, de-investment and privatization. If I refer to what the previous government has done, it is because I want it to be absolutely clear, for this House and for the Portuguese, what options it has taken then and how they have harmed the country, and the option we have since had to make for the recovery of public investment in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the transport sector the former government, with its obsession with privatization, did not take care of what was truly best for the country and for the public interest. It is thus justified the bizarre promise in PETI ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ), works on the road and rail and until it has announced its financing with Community funds, but few technical projects have carried out. Indeed, the former Government did not intend to carry out those works and the option was to privatize Portugal's own infrastructure company. This bizarre, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members had approved the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure, but had left the Government with only two technical projects representing less than 1, 5 % of the investment planned for the 2020 Railway. In view of this scenario, what did we do? We focused on the implementation of the projects, on the conduct of environmental studies, which were not done either, and on the launch of competitions so that we could start the works. We were thus able to have important works on the ground today, such as the modernization of the North Line or the electrification of the Mining Line. in the next 30 days, we will also begin the modernization of the section between Elvas and the border, as well as the modernization of the Line of Beira Baixa, between Covilhã and Guarda, which will allow the connection between these two cities, which was closed about a decade ago. We will therefore mark a turning point in the Portuguese railway, which for several decades only recorded the closure of railway lines. Soon, we will be able to celebrate the reopening of an important railway line within the country, where it is most missing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even more striking will be, I am sure, also in the next 30 days, the launch of the competition for the construction of the largest section of railway line of the last 100 years in Portugal, the line between Évora and Elvas, which will finally allow to have a competitive connection from the port of Sines to Spain, extending the Iberian and Europeaninterland. The preparation of this investment was a long process, from the outset because, contrary to what we expected, once again, the previous government, despite its inclusion in PETI, did not carry out the project and, worse, had not even contracted the execution of this project, being so important. While we solved this setback, we were faced with another surprise: the delay of the previous government determined the expiry of the Environmental Impact Declaration (IAA), forcing us to carry out a new environmental study and a new submission to environmental authorities. It was a difficult and lasting path, but we have overcome all these obstacles so that, in the next 30 days, we have launched the biggest competition for many years for railway interventions, worth about EUR 400 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with initiatives like these that, with the growth of 50 % in the structural investment in the railway we carried out in 2017, we will again add a duplication of this amount of investment in 2018. Even in the railway sector, the previous government has also brutally degraded the service provided by the CP, attempting to prepare the privatization of the most profitable lines, to begin with, we can refer, by the Cascais Line, as stated in the PETI that the previous government approved. What did we do? Instead of following the option for privatization, we invested in improving services, re-qualifying the circulating material and also prepared the acquisition of new circulating material, and we obtained results, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The abolitions of trains in the Cascais Line, which were a constant and significant number — every day — have ceased to happen, are virtually non-existent today and the number of passengers in this Line has increased again between 2015 and 2017. in urban transport, the former Government tried to privatize — or at least prepare for privatization — the metropolitans, as well as the Caris and the STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of the Port ), without taking care of what was best for the population. What did we do? We have ensured the maintenance of these companies in the public sector, invested in new equipment and in the recovery of current ones and are preparing investments for the expansion of metropolitan networks. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] As a result, service levels have improved and the number of passengers has increased. in air transport, the former government opted for full privatization of ANA, anticipating revenues and making it financially impossible to build a new airport in Lisbon. What did we do then? We agreed with the new owners of the company the solution Portela + Montijo, stabilising the prospects for the increase of airport capacity in Lisbon and making investments, either in Lisbon or in the other national airports, which have already occurred throughout this legislature. As a result, traffic at our airports has grown by more than 33 % in these two years, giving a great boost to tourism and the economy in general. The former Government wanted to sell TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) in a hurry, when it had already been dismissed in this House, and to agree on conditions that would lead to the State today not having a single action or participation in that company. What did we do? We renegotiated the agreement with private shareholders, ensuring that the State maintained itself as the largest shareholder, stabilized the situation of the company, having today an active voice in all strategic decisions, and created conditions for TAP to grow—only last year, grew 22 % in passenger numbers and 28 % in revenue. in telecommunications, contrast is also evident. By ideological choice, the former Government fully privatized TTCs, when the Memorandum signed with the troika requires only partial privatization of such a company. They therefore chose to sacrifice the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese in anticipation of revenue and the obsession with privatizing everything and 100 %. In view of the privatisation conditions they signed, what did we do? We have maintained close cooperation with the regulator, who is responsible for monitoring compliance by the TTCs with the quality of service indicators. Recently, the regulator has proposed new, more demanding, quality indicators that are expected to result in better quality of service for Portuguese. In addition, we have initiated a work programme involving a wide range of entities to find the best solutions for the company and service to remain a reference in the quality of postal services. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In two years of government, we managed to recover many of the situations of abandonment and de-investment to which the former government had vetoed the area of infrastructure and transport, improved services, increased the number of passengers in these companies, prepared the investment projects and launched the competitions for the works that are now coming to the ground. And this is because we believe in public services and critical public investment and because we are not here with mental reserve just to watch the destruction of companies and services in order to create conditions for their privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate stage, starting requests for clarification from the Inter-Parliamentary Party. The Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification to Mr Bruno Dias, who will answer together. First of all, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Member of the Communist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u15	My name is Bruno Dias! Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u16	Mr Bruno Dias, the circumstances leading you to this debate, let me tell you, is a huge political cynicism. Mr and his party made, like the Left Block, a governance agreement two years and two months ago, in which his party established the principles, dossiers and matters it understood. at this moment, past this period, what Mr has brought us through his speech—and has already happened several times—is a role of demands, a list of protests on various subjects which he would like to be treated and are not. The question I leave you with, Mr President, is the following: by returning the CFP to the figure of the protest, to whom does it direct its protest and its demands? Why? Because, for a year and a half, Mr. Members did not listen to this formula, but on the contrary. We have seen the mutual praise, in the 15-year debates with Mr Prime Minister, on topics and matters more or less combined between questions and answers. Now, in fact, all the problems that the country is experiencing are indisputable. Mr. Member, in the case of health, there are no doctors, there are no competitions for psychologists, there are no nurses, there are no diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, there was no opening, which was predictable, new USF(family health units), lack equipment, waiting lists for surgeons and consultations increase, lack of response from INEM(National Institute of Medical Emergency ), lack of response in hospital emergencies, the contests which Mr. Minister of Health continually promises every time he comes to the Assembly there are not, are not open, PPPs (public-private partnerships) are renewed or are again contested. Furthermore, Mr Deputy, the total SNS debt to external suppliers between November 2015 and November 2017 increased 37, 1 % and the overdue debt increased 63, 2 %. This means more than EUR 588 million in the case of total debt, and more than EUR 573 million in the case of overdue debt. In the area of investment, which you would like to see. Members have always diabolized at the time of the previous government, it must be stated here clearly that investment in the SNS, between 2015 and 2017, fell 27 %. So, Mr. Member, now that the problems are getting worse, the PC...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u17	PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u18	...and the Left Block does not assume any responsibility. They appear with the complaint, as if nothing was your responsibility. It's a huge political cynicism! The PC...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u19	PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u20	...and a Block we support this government and we support this policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u21	What a level!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u22	This government only exists because the PC...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u23	Are you from the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u24	...and the Left Block enables it. The PC and the Left Block approve the Budgets, the PC and the Left Block approve the Big Plan Options. It's a huge political cynicism!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u25	You have no level!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u26	Mr President, this is your intervention of « heartbeat» and this compulsive cry that you are now presenting...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u27	What a chungaria!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u28	...are the responsibility of the government, such as its bench and the bench next to it. I ask you, Mr President, who is the object of this protest? Who are you waiting for solutions to all the questions you have raised in your speech? This relief of conscience, which was your intervention, will continue or will we even have a serious political attitude in which you assume your effective responsibilities in this government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u29	What a chungaria intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that when there are given global times, as is the case in this debate, the Conference of Leaders has considered that the times for requests for clarification can go as far as twice as the time has been set. This is an indicative factor that I ask you to do. Members who take into account. To ask Mr Bruno Dias for clarification, Mr Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, we welcome the CFP for bringing to this House the discussion on the sector of public investment and transport, because there is a sector where there is a difference between the policies of the previous Government and the policies of the Government supported by this parliamentary majority is indeed in transport and in the area of urban mobility. It is true, Mr President: this government has had a very heavy inheritance, an investment inheritance from the public sector as we have never seen before, particularly in public transport companies, not only from the point of view of the de-investment of rolling stock, but also from the working conditions of people. We had in all public sector companies a very clear strategy of privatization and dismantling of everything that ensured the public transport service and, therefore, it is not surprising that today we are able to know very clearly what the priorities of this and those of the previous government are. I would like to underline two areas, Mr. First of all, the decisive action that this Government has taken on public sector companies. Today, we are witnessing a public investment which is clearly strategic not only in the railway sector but also in urban public transport, reaffirming the importance, in particular in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, of public transport as a fundamental element of urban mobility, we also see a strengthening of workers' rights, in particular from the point of view of re-suscision of collective bargaining as a way of balancing the interests of workers and businesses, and, on the other hand, to a significant increase in the number of passengers transported by public companies in the sector for the first time. The question he left, Mr President, is whether or not he recognized this decisive action by this Government in order to reverse what were the previous policies of the PSD/CDS Government with regard to opening lines, renewing rolling stock, investing from the rail network's point of view in fundamental territories for the development of territorial cohesion, particularly in the most depressed areas. On the other hand, he also wondered if he did not agree that this government, through the implementation of the new legal regime for public passenger transport, began an administrative reorganization, placing on the role of municipalities, municipalities' associations and metropolitan areas in order to, for the first time, create a mobility system and a transport system more focused on people, more friendly of the environment and a fundamental part of the management of national urban systems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u32	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking the questions that have been raised, I would just like to note that from Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS there are a number of objective questions which are visible, even in the Parliamentary Commission, the differences that we have expressed in the options, which remain, for example, a restriction on the hiring of staff in companies, which is so lacking in the operational level of the necessary response — and we have come to debate this issue — but also with regard to the substantial increase in the investment needed, both in infrastructure and in the development of the transport sector. We still had the information of an investment of about EUR 7 million in the Cascais Line, which for us is deeply insufficient in view of the grueling needs that occur in that Line in relation to the obsolete rolling stock, even having problems in the infrastructure itself. But in view of what happened in the previous government, the Minister and the Government appear to say 'good, but these 7 million are 100 times more than the Government proposed by the previous government for that line'. The problem is that the sum of 7 million is not greater because before that the investment is €78 000. It even seems bigger, but it is not, the needs are getting bigger and, therefore, the 7 million become less sufficient to meet the needs. With regard to the hiring of staff, we continue to express concern and disagreement with restrictions on the hiring of, for example, workers for the maintenance of the Metropolitan, when now in February 2018 a competition is taking place for the hiring of 10 workers, but however, it is moving towards the subcontracting of eight workers via a service provider company, evidently in a false service provision. These are concrete matters that require further discussion and not this cry of insults and low-level provocations that the PSD has given us and that they deserve no answer, because we want to maintain a debate with elevation, we do not want to respond to provocations. If this is what the PSD is able to respond to people's problems, they are presented, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question stage of the government. The Bureau has the registration, to request clarification, of 12 Mrs. Members and the Government have informed that they want to respond by groups of four. And, to ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, as you well see, the concern we have underlying this debate has to do with the defence of public services and the condition of the public sector, companies in the state business sector, as a fundamental pillar for the guarantee of this capacity of response that the country must have in this regard. When we speak of the state's business sector as a necessary condition to respond to the needs of the country, we speak of strategic companies that must be defended and that, because they have not been defended and given to economic groups and to the power of multinationals, have demonstrated, in a clear and evident manner, the outcome and consequences of this policy and these options. We are talking about PT, we are talking about Post Offices, we are talking about TAP, and we are talking about fundamental companies for the country, for the economy, for the economy itself, for national sovereignty, in which what was the option of successive governments—i.e. PS, PS, and CDS—in delivering to the private capital the control of these companies is, on the ground, bringing to the populations, to the people, to their daily lives, the consequences and the result of what these options were. With regard to TTCs, we have already said a lot and we will continue to develop this issue of the deep degradation of postal service and a company which is being dismantled by an economic group which has a short-term agenda. With regard to PT, people are left to give up in an unacceptable situation with regard to what is happening today, following the October fires. With regard to TAP, its route is increasingly resorting to the subcontracting of aircraft and crews, with the closure of services, removing people, with the continuity of highly doubtful business, not to say ruinous, as happened with the issue of the fleet of A350 and A330, by the options imposed by the previous government. Therefore, life is demonstrating, in a clear way—and that is our concern—the consequences and results of these policies of delivering fundamental pillars of our economy to economic groups. As we've reported in due course, they've been selling the country to the parts and now we're paying the bill. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u36	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health — I address this question to you — after what we have just heard, I would say that, in Portugal, we now live a sort of paradigm. On the one hand, we have the health that the SNS portal transmits to us with the data that the Minister of Health has to put there. And, Mr. Secretary of State, I say « there he commands to put», because we all have in memory, in recent memories, the shame that was counterfeiting, the cleaning of lists of patients with pending surgeries, for example, at the Amadora hospital...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u39	... or also the false announcements, here by Mr Minister, of the tens of USFs that were open and that, after all, it was found that it was not. On the other hand, in this paradigm, we have the health of the Portuguese, that health of every day, that which the Portuguese try to access every day. This health, Mr Secretary of State, is as follows: in the Faro hospital, the situation is of chaos, because, for days, there are monkeys in the corridors in the emergency service, with patients 20 hours waiting to be cared for; in the hospital of Santarém, the works in the operating block, because of Mr. Minister of Finance, are not done, despite the necessary money has been available and increased since 2015 ; in Hospital D. Estefânia, the pediatric urgency — say doctors who work there, I am not — compromises the safety of their professionals and users; the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) of Lisbon continues to expect Mr. Minister of Finance to free 5 million for the work to begin — « it is already a day of work », « it is already coming»! ; the 700 specialists continue to wait for the opening of the competitions—but it was the PSD that sent the young graduates to emigrate! — there are 700 young doctors waiting for the opening of a competition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u40	But, Mr. Secretary of State, we can also talk about the average response times guaranteed for patients: 801 days of ophthalmology, at the guard hospital ; 476 days in cardiology, at the guard hospital ; 832 days in ophthalmology, at the Queen's Caldas ; 369 days in neurology, at Setúbal... This is the reality of the country! And it's not just us saying that, Mr. Secretary of State. Recently, the report of the Court of Auditors' audit to the Consolidated Account of the Ministry of Health has come to tell us that "it is extremely weak..." — and I am quoting — the financial and economic situation of the SNS. Its recapitalisation has not been sufficient, nor has it been supported in a plan that ensures the sustainability of the provision of health care to the population in the medium and long term. The value they have in their own funds is the lowest since the consolidated account has been carried out since 2008. » This is the reality of the country, and it is not the PSD to say it! By now, Mr Secretary of State, I leave you with a question, perhaps a little rhetorical, but it is a challenge to see if you can remember who the Minister came to this House on November 13, saying that by 31 December 2017, we would have more than EUR 400 million in the treasury of hospitals ; by 31 December 2017, we would have an increase in the social capital of EPE hospitals (enterprise public entity) of more than EUR 500 million ; and at the beginning of 2018 – this 2018 – we would also have the release of a new capital increase of EUR 500 million. Talk! Just talk! This is the reality of the country! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u41	Mr Luís Testa, of the Socialist Party, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the two years of the Socialist Party's government have been guided by an enormous determination in promoting public policies that clearly respond to those that are the ambitions of businesses, populations and territories. The Government has shown that there was not only an alternative path to blind and absurd austerity, as this path was required by Portugal. The results achieved are demonstrative of the strategy's correctness and, above all, of the correct response to the country's demand. When the legacy was the one that we all know today — the absence of projects, the inadequacy of the structural funds and the persistence of a country model based on its disqualification — when the response to these difficulties ended up a challenge, the challenge which we are experiencing today has been overcome, which was to mobilize resources to deal with existing and notorious problems in the satisfaction of public services, in the absence of public and private investment and in the urgent acceleration of the national economy, either by consumption, by exports, or by the competition of these two sides, as is evident. With the implementation of Portugal ( PT ) 2020 at cruise speed, with all its indicators of performance of the national economy with positive performance, with the increase of public investment and with a national design strategy based on economic growth and territorial cohesion, it is now important to prepare what is next. in this sense, I take advantage to ask Mr Minister, knowing the projects that the Government has, as the post-PT 2020 perspective is, and how we can have a future Community framework of support consistent with the needs and reality of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u43	To request clarification in this round, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, in the initial intervention, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has given us a positive picture of the policies that the Government is adopting in relation to infrastructure, transport and communications and also of the picture that is expected to take place in 2018 on the evolution of public investment. In particular, he said that an increase of about 40 % is expected, in aggregated values, in public investment in all areas where public investment is required to intervene, not only in those areas which directly concern the social state—so health, education, social security, etc. — but also those relating to transport and communications infrastructures. And it is in fact in transport and communications infrastructures where more heavy investment is claimed by the State and where the perplexities arise more clearly as regards the implementation of this programme of investments in transport and communications, in particular the Railway 2020 programme. Mr President, he certainly read an article that came into the social communication at the beginning of this week about the loud and obvious difference between what was supposed to be at work in the framework of the Railway 2020 programme and what is actually in work. We are talking about a shift of about 85 % in relation to what initially established the Railway 2020 programme and what is actually in place on the ground. I can tell you, Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, that I have here before me the timetable for the implementation of the 2020 Railway Programme and indeed the number of sections of railways that should be in operation was about 12 according to what was initially planned, but only two are actually in operation. Therefore, the first question I would like to ask you, Minister, is why the Government, when the Infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ) presented to you, and also here in this House, in February 2016, the Railway 2020 programme, with that timetable—we are talking about something that happened in the management and responsibility of this government—he did not say that there were a series of traps mounted on many of those investment projects, which made it virtually impossible to fully implement them. Mr Minister, I would like to remind you of the debate in this House in the context of the preparation of the State budget for 2017, and to draw your attention to the fact that the concept of public transport and investment inherent in the Railway 2020 programme, which in turn resulted from PETI 3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020 ), is a deeply wrong concept because it is deeply unbalanced between the transport of goods and the transport of passengers. And I remember the question I asked you directly at that time, Minister, about whether it would not be time to review the PETI 3+ programme, to review the political investment priorities, even at the rail level, and to accommodate, in this programme, an investment programme for rail transport also passengers, in addition to the transport of goods, about whether it would not be the time to make that investment and that correction. Unfortunately, Mr Minister has taken up the continuation of the PETI 3 + programme in both the budget implementation programmes for 2017 and 2018 and we are now concluding that these options have been wrong, not with regard to the need for investment in freight transport, but because, as the blanket is short, Mr Minister, and the Minister knows this better than I do, there are a number of investments in rail passenger transport that has necessarily been left behind. For example, in the case of the Cascais Line — and with this end, Mr Minister — speak in EUR 7 million of investment, when the proposed re-qualification of this Line is budgeted at around EUR 136 million, it is of course a drop of water that will make no difference strictly as regards the strategic need to promote the integral re-qualification of the Cascais railway line. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u45	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u46	Mr President, first of all, with your permission, I will share the answers with Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, but I begin with the questions addressed to me on infrastructure matters and, in particular, on railways and communications. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Heitor Sousa, the investment in rail was indeed a priority taken by this government from the very first moment. And you are right, Mr Heitor Sousa, we have built the 2020 Railway programme on PETI, on top of what the previous IP administration has indicated to us as priorities and implementation timetable. We considered that ambitious but feasible calendar and we had several obstacles in the way that did not withdraw our determination to continue to implement investments that we consider to be priority for the country. Mr Heitor Sousa, I understand the option of balancing the transport of goods and passengers, but in any case I would like to remind you that, if you want to remember, the ongoing investments on the North Line, the electricity investments of the Mining Line, the ongoing projects for the electrification of the Algarve Line, just to give you some examples, Mr, and even the international corridors, will also serve, as we have discussed, to passenger transport. But I would like to tell you that perhaps it is also the time of the honourable Member, if he has other options than those — and beyond the line he knows that unfortunately he has not yet secured funding from the European Union — then say what investments we would not make, from those we are making. for our part, we are comfortable with the projects that are on the ground, those that are funded under the 2020 Railway, the Structural Funds and the CEF (Connecting Europe Facility): the electrification of the Mining Line, which is underway between Nine and Viana ; the two sections that are in progress, of RIV (fullway renewal), on the North Line ; the investment that is ongoing or to launch this month, namely the large investment in the connecting corridor between Évora and Elvas ; the investment that will start between Covilhã and Guarda, the investment that will start from Elvas to Caia,... Mr President, we are comfortable with the investments that are prioritized, we said it was important to keep that planning instrument that had been consensualized in Portuguese society and not spend the time tearing out planning instruments and starting again to run investment. I assure you that, if you accuse us of an achievement that you consider insufficient, I would also like to have done more, but we are making investment with all the energy and determination and with the conditions we have, in particular, with constraints, as environmental impact declarations that result from project execution processes, because they were many years old and, as they were not executed by the right government, we had to make a new environmental assessment, with external entities processes under public procurement, which, as you know, take months, with different options from the new IP administration, on the question of the coincidence of works with lines to operate or with line breaks. However, even in this line to which I am referring, the Beira Alta Line, the RIVs are also on the ground, Mr. So I don't know how it counts two pieces at work, because I tell a lot more, and many more now go into competition or enter into work within this 30-day period, as we have discussed in our Commission. Mr Bruno Dias, I fully agree with and in line with the view of valuing public services, public investment and the service provided by the business sector of the State. A different view from the previous government, which privatized 100 % even what the Memorandum admitted was partially privatized or degraded services to prepare privatizations, as was the case with the Cascais Line, which it also referred to. Dir-CL - I would say that 7 million in two years is little, but compared to seventy thousand euros in 2014. That's why we say there was 100 times more investment in two years. Mr, we had no funding for that line. Despite the previous government in PETI saying that it put a hundred million euros of Community funding there, the fact is that when the budgeting of the Structural Funds from the Cohesion Fund arrived, they set zero for the Cascais Line. We already assume that, in the context of reprogramming, we will effectively prioritize this investment and will have budgeting. This is how we want to work under the 2030 programme: with consensualization of future investments, but with timely preparation of these future investments. We will now have to stabilize the situation of the largest opposition party, to have an extended debate here in Parliament, I believe that with all parties, I repeat, with all parties, excluding no one, on the priorities for the economy, for its functioning and for society in the next decade, as well as on the infrastructure investments that will result from these priorities. This is how we want to move forward, but preparing in due course the future, so that we do not reach the Ministry, after two years of the signed partnership agreement, and have two implementation projects in the secretary, let us say, so that we can work and a work with very serious technical problems, as we had in the caíde-Marco section. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We are going to do a lot different, we are going to prepare the investment and we are going to prepare it in agreement with Portuguese society. Mr President, if you give me permission, I now give the floor to Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u47	Of course, Minister. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Fernando Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to reply to Mrs.Angela Guerra, stating that we expect that 2018 will certainly be a year of investment in health care investment. [[PSD protests.]] As you know, in the State budget, an amount of approximately EUR 160 million is budgeted, about 50 % above last year's budget. With this, we certainly intend to invest in the more than seven dozen primary care buildings currently under construction, which are the largest investment gap in primary care, with the help of the authorities and Community funds. We also want to invest in hospital care and a little bit across the country will evaluate and identify investments in infrastructure and equipment, which, of course, in addition to other investments in energy efficiency funds and administrative modernization. But if you want me to tell you, much more than investing in walls, we are bet on investing in people. And in this respect, the Government can clearly demonstrate the results of this investment. in the context of investment in people, we started by users and increased investment in access to health care. I recall the overall reduction in the value of moderate rates, the reduction of user charges in terms of non-emergency transport of patients—not long ago, as you know, non-emergency transport for palliative care has been approved—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u49	Ui! They owe millions to firemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u50	... the reduction of drug charges for users, greater access to therapeutic innovation, the creation of the SNS contact centre, the introduction of the principle of free access, so that the user, with the family doctor, can choose the hospital unit where he has the consultation. I also remind you of the investment being made in primary care, which is extremely relevant: more than 500 000 people had access to a family doctor, and they did not have it at the end of 2015 ; they will be opened this year 53 new family health units; more than five dozen health centres will have access to oral health care—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u51	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u52	... yes, we will have oral health care in primary care, in fact, tomorrow I will even go to three places within the country to start this activity; placement of 40 psychologists and 40 nutritionists, planned this year in the State Budget, representing the largest entry of these professionals in the SNS ; strengthening the complementary means of diagnosis in primary care, whether in terms of visual health, analysis or in various areas. I also refer to the strengthening of hospital health care, particularly at the rate of surgical outpatients, which is the greatest of all, and in transplants. I welcome the reinforcement in the statutory capital of the hospitals-enterprise. It is true that, as we promised, we injected 500 million euros last year into the capital of the company hospitals and we will do the same this year. I also remember the strengthening of ongoing care, with more than 500 new beds this year. last year, we had, for the first time, continued mental health care and the first pediatric palliative care unit, which did not exist. There will be an in-depth strengthening of palliative care units and intra-hospital and community support teams in palliative care, as well as a strengthening of SNS professionals — that is true! — the more than 6000 new professionals we now have, the more 1000 new doctors, the more nurses. We'll also have a boost in the careers. I remind you that for the first time, we have a special career of medical emergency technician, a long-awaited hospital pharmacist career, a career of superior diagnostic technicians. Finally, I would say that, above all, we have a serious investment in people and a serious investment in infrastructure, which will certainly have an opportunity to evaluate and identify, participating with us in this noble attitude, which is to give better conditions to the SNS to provide better services to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the second round of requests for clarification. You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is quite curious, because it is a repetition, since the Left Block has already promoted a similar debate, much like the « catch me, but I fight». And choose, or combine, two ministers who are nothing more than the champions of unfulfilled promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u55	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u56	Minister Pedro Marques even accumulates with the category of minister more complaints. And why do I say that? I'll be right there. These ministers are accompanied by two State Secretaries who rival what are unfulfilled promises. I explain why: you basically say that it is the fault of the previous government, of the circumstances and of the inheritance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u57	It's injustice! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u58	It's not that it's an injustice, it's just that it's not true. It is that the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure is the champion of captivating.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u59	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u60	The Ministry of the Environment has 69, 6 million euros in captivity. I wonder if the seizures are the fault of the previous government and whether or not the seizures are the source of having today an increasingly taxed government that is increasingly serving. That is, the PCP could almost sing that song «they eat everything and leave nothing».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u61	You can too! We don't want to have musical monopolie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u62	I say this because, in fact, you promised public investment. They promised in 2016 more than 12 % of public investment, cut 9, 9 %, and is it the fault of the previous government? Oh, my God! You promised more than 25 % of public investment in 2017, but it is far from that. at this time, users, companies, workers of almost all public services are in worse circumstances than they were in the past. Well, I know there's fewer strikes, but that's a reading I'm not doing here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u63	It's a hard reading to cultivate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u64	Mr Environment Minister, I give you the example of the worst public service, the one in which the Portuguese Communist Party says nothing, nor does it even do its struggle, in which users are advised to flee from the rush hour: Transtex and Soflusa. On 18 January 2017, the Minister said : « by the end of February there will be a complete plan of operation and maintenance » ; 10 May 2017, he was already talking about the renewal of the fleet of the Transtex and the Soflus ; 22 June, he said the Union of the Setúbal trade unions who were missing ships—until they spoke on a paper boat; yesterday, Mr. Minister said — see the difference in time— « Soflus will have the renewed fleet by the end of the year». We'll be there to see. But the Minister of Planning, whom I call a complaint, says: "I found almost nothing from the previous government. in PPPs (public-private partnerships), only intention processes, no agreement made or closed. Mr Minister, at the end of three State budgets, are you able to say how many agreements you have already made? The Minister then states that the works are all in the field, denying, indeed, the Block of the Left, but always speaks in the same works. in the case of the Covilhã-Guarda, it is a little piece, Mr Minister, we agree, it is not a great work. Do you know what he was saying in the 2016 budget presentation? That the work began in 2017, or even in 2016. Are you already in the field, Minister? Now comes to speak in the work of the century: the railway connection between Évora norte and Elvas / frontier. Do you know what this project said? That was for December 2016. But are you here to say that it is now and that it is the fault of the former government? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, he also says that the environmental impact study has expired. But, Minister, what have you been doing for three years in the government? Oh, my God! It also referred to the TAP, to such a reversal, the great crown of glory that, after all, nothing to the private, all for the public... [[PS protests.]] Are you sure you're even sending it to TAP? I think it's another case that the state pays but doesn't send. Unless it guarantees here that the TAP, as announced, will comply with the business agreement as signed by the Prime Minister, in the context of social consultation, for public and private companies. If I guarantee this here, I will say that the government sends something. But we will have time to talk about what happens in the maintenance negotiations and others, in Brazil. We will do this in committee so that we can prove to you that the State pays, but it does not send. Mr Minister, I wanted to tell you that, in fact, I didn't need to go too far to prove to you, travel, service to service, degradation to which we witnessed public services. If you think I'm not right, I will still give you the example of Carris: 30 UTs (twin units) are missing, and what do the workers say? They say « thirty cars stopped, thirty days of struggle. » In addition to what users say about the degradation of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u65	So there's always a fight after all!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u66	I know the Communist Party says nothing about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u67	You have to decide, either there's a fight or there's no fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u68	I talked about users, I didn't talk about unions. Yesterday — and with this ending — you were very excited about an unusual increase of extraordinary hours in the port of Lisbon. I'll explain why. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u69	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u70	Mr President, Minister, it is no longer interesting to hear the interventions produced so far, and it is very likely that they will be repeated during the inquiry to the Government made by the PSD and the CDS, which almost request that the past be deleted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u71	The troika? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u72	... that there is a rubber about the past, that forgets the past, so that they do not assume their own responsibilities and now put on a mask to pretend what they really are not. Given the responsibilities they had in the past, we must not forget that the maximum of the PSD and CDS in the field of transport was privatization, the closure of transport careers and the closure of railway lines, and we could continue there. Why is it important not to forget the past? It is that we are fighting for an alternative policy of change, and that is why it is contrary to what has been done by the PSD and the CDS, particularly in the field of transport. Mr Minister, in the area of transport, I want to focus on the railway. The Greens confront all governments with what they consider to be fundamental and central to the lives of the people. The railway — and Mr Minister will certainly agree — is of crucial importance to our strategy to tackle climate change, to decarbonize our society and to be less dependent on fossil fuels. Therefore, it has a fundamental strategic importance here in what concerns a global challenge we are facing. It also has another key role to play in combating regional asymmetries. Railway is a decisive part in territorial cohesion and in the connection of our territory. Therefore these two determining components, which the railway can give as a response, are even central and base all the bet that should be made in the railway sector, precisely by investing the logic of the investment, the closure, the logic of the investment and the strengthening of the response that must be given. That is why Mr Minister, for example, we consider the replacement of daily rail transport to be essential in the East line. The Greens fought so much for this to be done with the populations, taking into account the needs of the populations. The previous government had closed this offer to the people and one of the major commitments of the Greens was to restore this daily rail connection, which was decisive. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But, Minister, we can't stay here. As I mentioned earlier, the crucial role of rail in the revitalization of the country's interior would be to tell me if it would not be essential to study, in the short term, the hypothesis of the construction of a branch linking the eastern railway line to the industrial area of Portalegre, just to promote this economic revitalization, of the entire economic structure of that area. I would like to know whether the Minister does not consider this an important and essential part. Also speaking of these links, there is one that, in our perspective, is decisive: the direct link from Beja to Lisbon. I would like Mr. Minister to update me and update the Assembly of the Republic on what measures the Government is actually taking to ensure that this direct link is made. What are the measures on the ground and what concrete deadlines are being implemented? Mr Minister, the people are desperate about this discoordination of rail transport. On the other hand, Mr Minister, we must also point out the fact that the re-qualification works that were planned for the 2020 Railway are far below what has been announced that they would be at this time. So, Minister, I think it is normal for you to hear here about the need to accelerate these works and these investments. With regard to rail, there is a key point: we are at real risk of reducing our rail supply soon. Do you know why, Minister? It is that the circulating material, through this country outside, is so obsolete that, soon, they begin to crash here, begin to crash there, begin to crash there, and the rail response becomes very precarious. Thus, the acquisition of circulating material is determining, but it happens that the procedures for the acquisition of this circulating material are quite late. The Minister has to give here today an answer on this matter, because — and I will repeat — we are working here to strengthen rail transport and not to make it obsolete and obsolete and to allow it to deteriorate progressively. We must make efforts in this regard. On the other hand, and also with regard to maintenance, we must revitalize EMEF (S.A. Railway Equipment Maintenance Company) with a sufficient number of workers so that such maintenance can actually be carried out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u73	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Minister, PSD and CDS wanted to, but they failed to privatize EMEF and now the question is not to allow this company to pursue a decommissioning path. A restructuring of the company is under way through its segmentation, allegedly to respond to the Court of Auditors, which did not approve maintenance contracts by direct award between EMEF and CP, because it was a service provision and required public tender. The Court of Auditors is now coming to give a negative view on this prospect of restructuring. The Minister said that the restructuring of EMEF was the solution and that anyone who knew any other solution would inform him. Mr Minister, the solution for EMEF goes through its integration into the COP. The question is: What are you waiting for to end the destruction of EMEF? Mr Minister, it was not because of lack of information that the integration of EMEF into the CP did not advance, until this was one of the scenarios pointed out, but because of lack of political will. The lack of investment in EMEF is leading to loss of work, which could, and should, carry out in the maintenance of circulating material, considering its huge potential, including the existence of highly specialized workers, although with a fairly high age average, which demonstrates the urgent need to hire more workers. Investment in rail has been very short of what is necessary for the development of the country. Still this week it was reported that of the 528 km of railway that should be in operation are only 79 km. What justifies such delays? And when will it be realized? The Government is not giving priority to railways, in particular their modernisation and electrification, in order to encourage the development of rail transport for passengers and goods. And I could also mention here the need to give priority to its enlargement and reopening the lines that have been closed. Mr. Minister, in 2019, ends the Fertagus concession contract. Will the government integrate this service into the CP? This is necessary to put an end to a bad business for the State, which was initiated by a Government of the Socialist Party and in which it itself prevented the CP from competing, which only benefits the private, that neither the circulation rates to the infrastructures of Portugal pay, while the CP does so, and which severely penalises the populations, at much higher tariff costs than those of the CP. Mr. Minister, rolling stock, stations and lines are public, so there is no reason why it is private to keep the profits and to maintain this public-private partnership. I would also like to raise another question on the merger of the REFER with the Portuguese Stradas, which led to the overload of financial charges, the paralysis of investment and the degradation of infrastructures, removing companies from the public sector from the realization of their operational nature and placing them as intermediaries between the State and the economic groups. Clearly, this is not the way. The path goes not only by valuing companies that are strategic for our development but also by strengthening public investment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u75	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start by talking about a matter that is a priority for Madeira, which is the new hospital. All Madeirans have already realized that there is a party intention of this government not to comply now with the commitments made to the region. There are even parties that in Madeira say one thing and here they do another, turning their backs on the real problems of Maderians. In all budgets, only 50 % are intended to pay, there are working groups that do not meet, and the new hospital and the necessary funds do not appear, as well as the revision of the social mobility allowance. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when does this government, which the CFP supports, intend to comply with the commitments made to Madeira and with the word given by Antonio Costa and which remains unhonored? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when will this government, which the CFP supports, pay what it owes Madeira, for example the more than 16 million of the health subsystems and which it has not yet paid?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u77	It was good to start paying! Pay what you owe!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u78	When is this government, which the PCP supports, will stop doing business with Madeira's interest rate?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u79	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u80	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are the issues that the Madeirans want this government and the CFP to respond to. It is not worth trying to hide the sun with the sieve and talk about deficit — who would say, talk about deficit! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madeira's deficit is low, but it could be even lower if Antonio Costa and the government, which the CFP supports, paid what they owe the Madeirans and port santanese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u81	What you can't stand is that speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u82	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case too, I will request your permission to share the response with the Minister for the Environment. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I saw that it was difficult to say, but I say : yes, public investment grew 20 % in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u84	Podera! It was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u85	It grew 20 % in 2017 and will have to grow even more in 2018. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because the public investment contract had grown 18 % in 2016, preparing the growth that occurred in 2017, and now grew 38 %. We again have over EUR 2000 million in public investment contracts at the end of 2017, which we have not had since 2011. It was hard work, it was necessary to do what you did not leave from the point of view of preparing the public investment contract: projects, environmental impact declarations, which expired six months after we reached the government, in the case of such important investment of the rail link between Évora and Elvas, yes, Mr. They had an entire legislature to make that investment, it was priority, they had funding and they didn't. We arrived at the government and expired. We certainly had to get back to work so we could make the investment that will be launched in the next 30 days. Yes, it is the largest rail investment in the last 100 years in Portugal and will be launched by this government. We worked for two years so it could be a reality. Mr. Hélder Amaral, on PPP, I see that he did not speak again about the report of UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ), as he did in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u86	But I can talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u87	Did you notice that the payment of PPPs fell by 14 % in 2017? Is that why you didn't talk about PPP payments? We had mentioned that it was going to fall, indeed it has fallen, and even more than the value it was budgeted, Mr. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr. Hélder Amaral, as far as the heavy inheritance is concerned, while they do not explain to the country why in support of the investment of companies there were four million euros paid and today there are more than 1300 million payments;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as long as they do not explain why they have left EUR 7 million in support of regional and local investment and today more than EUR 2800 million is available; while they do not explain why they have stopped Portugal 2020, they will have to respond to the political legacy that has left us! The political responsibility for delaying public and private investment is only yours and the Government which you have supported, Mr. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in relation to decarbonisation and combatting regional asymmetries, we consider this very important, so we have important investments in the 2020 reprogramming that we hope to propose and debate here, which are going towards the decarbonization of heavy urban transport — also important for territorial cohesion, now. But, Mrs Deputy, yes, we had the satisfaction of being able to have a daily service on the East line, without noise, without alarm, so that we would not be accused of electoralism. It is working and our priority, Mrs Deputies, is to qualify the offer, but it is also to increase the demand. Our priority right now, in the East line, is to strengthen, say, the work of the CP in order to increase the demand for that service to enable it and so that it is also viable with more quality and more service. With regard to other important links to the territorial cohesion you mentioned, I would like to tell you that our priority was the advance of the bi-mode rolling stock acquisition program so that links such as that of Beja to Lisbon can be made continuously with a single locomotive, so that people do not have to tranship, which have a modern and more quality service. The renewal of rolling stock and, now, the acquisition of rolling stock are to advance in this first quarter of the competition, as we have already announced. With regard to the renewal of rolling stock, I must say that effort is always insufficient, but increased by 40 % in 2017. It's not too much! Repeat: rose 40% in 2017, Mrs. Member! Mrs Paula Santos, with regard to the integration of EMEF into the COP, which she referred to, and the question of the strategic option for EMEF and its services, the choice of integration of EMEF into the CP would determine a huge risk of qualifying CP capital increases as State aid. Consequently, EMEF or no longer provided services abroad to third parties other than CP, or we had a serious problem of State aid which could jeopardise the whole company. at least private services, third parties, would be involved and hundreds of jobs would be at risk, because obviously we cannot be wanting to compete on the market and to be charged with State aid for making capital increases in the CP. Workers know that our priority is to strengthen the renewal of rolling stock, its stability and the stability of the company. We do not want to move forward with options that are as risky as could be in any of these situations. We do not want EMEF to stop being the company that is: competitive, with quality of services provided to CP, but also to third parties, because we also guarantee hundreds of jobs in the company. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, coming here to talk about budgetary commitments after the implementation of Madeira's budget in 2017, was the least expected of her. The Government of the Republic remains committed to supporting the Madeira hospital, but is also committed, and hopes that all governments will be committed to macroeconomic stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we expected from the regional government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u88	You've made a commitment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u89	Mr President, with your permission, I would now give the floor to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u90	Of course I do. You have the floor, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u91	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, I would like to tell you that I did not actually fulfill any promise regarding the Transtex. What we are committed to was that last year 2017, which we would come to the end with the stabilized operation, investing approximately EUR 10 million in the revision and repair of ships. That's what we did. Today morning, I read that two ships are stopped at the Soflusa. It is not true, or better, they are physically stopped, because they are both in maintenance, as they have to be, and they will be returned to service until mid-March, and of course, soon thereafter, two others will enter into maintenance, as is common in these companies. The operation returned to normal. regarding the renewal of the fleet, what we said, and I myself said in the middle of last year, was that 2018 would be the year in which this would happen. To this end, it was necessary to reprogram the POEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), because the framework we inherited from VV. Ex. I didn't have any money there. We have EUR 17 million that are assigned to this and, indeed, during this first half, a competition will be launched for the renewal of part of the fleet of Soflusa and Transtejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u92	We will enter the fourth round of requests for clarification, first to Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, regional development of the least populated interior is a problem that has to be tackled definitely. Not solving the problem of the interior is keeping costs, problems and limitations to the whole country. And it is not enough to create a mission unit, it needs other policies, different from those that have been followed. The CFP has long argued that support and incentives, particularly from Community funds, should be regionalised. This is because regions, their level of development and their productive capacity are not all the same. After the 2017 fires, the government has already regionalized some measures, but this option must be structural and not only serve as a response to tragedies. Another thing that needs to be done differently is to support cross-border activity throughout the territory of the interior — family farming. This, unlike industrial caricing, has the ability to fix people. Each non-farm plot is another plot to be consumed by fire. That is why a specific scheme for family farming, as the CFP has long proposed and demanded, is necessary. It must be a regime that goes far beyond the measures proposed by the Government. The interior has a serious and chronic problem of communication pathways, mobility and territorial articulation. contrary to what is often said, the country has serious mobility deficiencies. Bragança, Vila Real and Viseu have already had a train, but they no longer have. Portalegre has a station 14 km from the city. The road link from Beja to Lisbon is now little more than a goat's path. The IP2, large structural route of the interior of the country, connecting Bragança to A2 in Ourique, despite being planned in the National Road Plan since 1985, is not completed. in the interior of the country, because there are no nearby health units, because there is no school at each corner, the problem of mobility takes another dimension. It was aggravated by the extermination of the National Road and accentuated every day by the lack of road and railway. Another thing missing, and much, within the country are public services and they are not there by choice of successive PSD, CDS and PS governments. When problems arise, there is a lack of bridging joints, GNR posts, health extensions, regional agricultural services, forests, social security to function and properly attached to resources, particularly humans, so that they can give an effective response to the populations they serve or should serve. Mr Minister, regional development will not be promoted without the measures and support to fix people and without giving them better living conditions, without the services and public investments that have been missing for years. Obviously, in order to promote development that does not exist, it is necessary to make a difference from what has been done so far. In many cases, it is necessary to do the opposite of what has been done so far. What is not yet clear and it should already be that this government wants to make that difference. You have an opportunity here to clarify to us, to clarify the country, Minister, about the intentions of the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u94	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u95	Mr President, my speech is more focused on public passenger transport in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, being more related to the Minister of the Environment. I would like to thank the Government for answering the questions I am going to put forward. Mr Minister, it gives the idea that you are much more focused on responding to the problems of passenger transport in the metropolitan area of Porto than in Lisbon. Allow me to leave this note, because anyone who looks at the development of public investment for the development of the Port metro and confronts it with the same concerns in the case of the Lisbon metro, the idea that Mr Minister, concerns and focus are much more focused on the north than on the south. But this is probably a problem of origin and which can hardly be solved. But it can be resolved through the discussion of strategic projects that are on the table, either for the development of the Port metro or for the development of the Lisbon metro. Mr Minister, the two questions I would like to ask you are whether the Government has studies that confirm the possibility and viability of a circular line of the metro in the Port through the construction of a section between São Bento and Casa da Música, which will then give rise to a circular line of metro, and whether it has the same type of study of viability and reliability for the development of a circular line in the metro in Lisbon. The solution seems to be the same, but, Minister, the scale on which we are talking is completely different. The Port metro transported in 2015 60 million passengers and the Lisbon metro carried 160 million passengers in 2017. Therefore, Mr Minister, the circular lines, in heavy mode of transport, are lines that respond to large demand flows, when transfers between lines are quite significant. And it does not seem to me, for what I know, that, in the case of the Port metro, this line has sufficient justification, given the fact that it is necessary to continue developing the Port metro above all to areas where there is not yet, which, moreover, was integrated into the very initial plan of strategic development of the Port metro, namely the pink line, which was planned to go from São Bento to Matosinhos and now the government has decided to shorten it to the House of Music. Mr Minister, I would like your comment on these issues. In addition, on another strangulation that exists in the Port metro and that has to do with maintenance services, I would like to remind you, Minister, that one year ago we were here discussing the problem of metro maintenance and paralysing 21 metro car races and now we are discussing the same problem, not with 21 metro triple units, but with 29 metro. So what I ask you is whether it is reasonable that this happened between one year and another, when what was supposed to happen was that maintenance, which is, above all, programmed, is not a corrective maintenance, had the ability to respond to the growing need for renewal and replacement of organs which, with the accumulated mileage, necessarily have to be replaced, not surprising anyone who, at this time, are immobilized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u96	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment, the planned investment with the extension of the Port metro network, to be started in 2019 and concluded in 2022, according to what it was reiterated yesterday in the Commission, is an important achievement of those who have always fought for investment, by the expansion of the metro network as an important instrument of mobility in the Port district. But the Minister has been or is wrong when he seems to be more concerned about attacking the CFP than about solving people's specific problems. It is bad when, in an acute way, it disregards the resolutions adopted by the Assembly of the Republic. It's bad when it doesn't promote the connection to Campo Alegre, Matosinhos-sul and when it doesn't want the connection to Gondomar or Trofa. It is wrong because these populations have been waiting too long for the resolution of their concrete mobility problems. Gondomar has been waiting for more than 10 years and the Trofa for more than 14 years. It should be remembered once again that the Trofa population was promised the metro connection when they took off a train. It is therefore wrong for the Minister not to follow up and comply with the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic proposed by the CFP, but adopted by various parties, which aim to solve specific problems of the population. Mr Minister does not want to solve these problems, he bears this responsibility and throws the political burden of that decision to the PS. But we will be here to continue to fight for these same solutions. But if you don't solve these problems, see if at least you say something about the problem of precariousness in the Port metro. The model of concessions, subcontracts, to jump from company A to company B, always with the same workers to provide the service, but without any guarantee of their rights, the systematic threat of dismissal of these workers, the kilometres of the rights of these workers always set at zero, requires government intervention in existing concessions and concession models. What does the Government intend to do to solve this problem, which is unacceptable to the CFP Parliamentary Group? Finally, I am referring to the intermodal social pass: regardless of the responsibilities of the metropolitan transport authorities, the Government cannot be impatived and serene in this matter. It is necessary to create an intermodal social pass, i.e. a pass that allows its use in all operators, public and private, and that is a fundamental aspect for mobility in port. When is the resolution of this problem due? Or is Mr Minister going to say that the CFP is wrong to propose a social pass that solves the problems and makes life easier for thousands of people in the Port district? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u98	For a new request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the public investment that justifies today's debate, although it has the growth that has already been mentioned, is at the lowest levels since 2015, when it was recovered after the well felt presence of the troika in Portugal. [[Protests by Environment Minister João Pedro Matos Fernandes.]] It can grow from a very low base. Surely Mr. Minister will understand what's going on. Perhaps these very low levels of public investment, despite the growth of 20 % verified,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u100	Under what Mr. Minister said there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u101	... justify, however, situations such as those we have checked today, when a delegation of the CDS went to visit the High School of the Rest, which has been in the news for the worst reasons: for not having spas, for not having had works and, in recent days, for having suffered a rat plague, which forced its closure for a few days. We talked about the High School of the Rest because we were there today, but we could talk about the High School of Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Cacém, in EB 2/3, in the Upper Lisbon, at the Avelar Brotero Basic School, in Odivelas, in the Truck High School, in the Alexandre Herculano High School, etc. All schools that urgently need background interventions, where it is cold, where there is asbestos, where they fall short of the ceiling and where there are no conditions for the practice of the discipline of Physical Education, the same as the government has already announced that it will count for the average of secondary education already from the next school year. So, in view of this scenario, what does the government and the parties that convene this debate and also the Left Block say? They say that bad, bad was in the time of the previous government, when the troika was here, where everything was stopped and in which nothing was done and that the blame is on the right. But they also say, as Mrs Heloísa Apollonia told us, that there is now an alternative model. And what do we see from this alternative model, on the ground, when we're going to visit schools? We see that, three years later, in a scenario of economic recovery — again three years later, three State budgets later, up to the end of the association contracts, having been told that they would free up money to invest in public school — do not initiate any investment in the school park and that schools are essentially at the same point. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, three years later, with a State budget that still remains to be approved, I ask what is then the alternative model that you want to present now, in particular, to the High School of Rest, the High School of Ferreira Dias, the Base School of Avelar Brotero, the EB 2/3, the High School of Lisbon and all the others that you are. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members know as well as I do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u102	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of the Environment, let us talk about people's lives and specific problems: people who live authentic daily odysseys in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon to make their travels in transport; people who arrive at the river terminals of Cacilhas, Seixal, Barreiro or others and, not uncommonly, see the deleted links; people who arrive to the metro and, in the middle of the day, wait for more than 12 minutes and then still go as sardine in can. The question we have left is this: why, Minister? Why? The answer is not for us, PCP, it is for people who live every day this hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u105	Why, in January, did Soflusa have two boats in the yard more than two months ago? Why did the Transtejo have nine operational and ten paralysed vessels? Why is São Jorge going from side to side making pools and filling up the 1001 failures that are going to happen? And when are we talking about the EUR 50 million announced for the acquisition of ten vessels and the EUR 17 million of Community funds, for when and with what service priorities will this be done? And so far, what response will be given to the populations? Why does the government delay in authorising contracts for the reinforcement of the metropolitan workers' framework? Because it preferred, as my comrade Bruno Dias well remembered, the use of an external company for the maintenance area, which implies a much higher payment to this company—which does no more than just put the workers there and does not provide any service, in fact—than the costs it would bear directly—there it is! — workers? And why is it that all this happens when a proposal from the CFP was approved in the State Budget for 2018, which ensures that public undertakings have ensured administrative and financial autonomy for the implementation of the budget for the hiring of workers, for the maintenance and fulfilment of operational activity security requirements? Another undisturbed matter is this thing of the circular line of the metro of Lisbon. The transformation of the green and yellow lines into a carousel between Campo Grande and Cais do Sodré, with a reduction of the yellow line to the Telleiras-Odivelas connection, is a waste of significant resources in a work that little or nothing adds to the metropolitan network and to the offer to the users. It's a bad strategic option. It's a bad technical option. It's a bad financial option. And, of course, it will postpone, once again, the priority that should be given to the expansion of the network to the western area and to Loures. The CFP advocates the urgent need to change this situation. The most urgent investments in infrastructure and equipment and the hiring of workers have to be unlocked. There must be an immediate and significant reduction in transport prices and an extension of quality supply. It is urgent to extend the intermodal social pass to the entire metropolitan area as a valid title for all public and private transport operators. The answers we want, Mr Minister, and the urgent solutions are for the people, are for the users: metro users who are a month ago with daily actions of protest and struggle, who will be in protest today even at the Mouse Metro Station at 5 o'clock in the afternoon; Transtejo and Soflusa users, who have delivered a petition with more than 4000 signatures in defense of a better river public service; users who have long waited for answers to the problems they live in their daily lives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u106	In reply, Mr Pedro Marques, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, who will then, of course, share this answer with the Minister for the Environment. But that will remain in the care of the government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's exactly what you just said. Mr João Ramos, and now also Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, this Government believes in the role of the Community funds for territorial cohesion, but also in the promotion of essential public services. We are going far away, Mrs Deputy, from the time of the diabolization of investment in schools; we are far from the time when the PSD/CDS government has done so, creating serious problems that have determined the inability to budget Community funds for that purpose in your time. Even so, the schools you have chosen, Mrs. Member, with all the difficulties that we will certainly have, have invested in 2017 or, as is the case with the Restelo, will have in 2018. So he was right in full in each of the schools he chose! They are in the investment programme, with national funds due to the lack of these Community funds. Mr Ramos, with regard to territorial cohesion, I would like to tell you that EUR 300 million has now been approved in the last competition for low-density territories. I also refer to the investments of the railway, which I spoke of recently, Covilhã-Guarda, Elvas-Evora or the investments on the Mininho line, all very important for territorial cohesion, because that is our example and our priority. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to take the floor to share the answer with the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u108	Mr. Environment Minister João Pedro Marques Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am particularly addressing Mrs Ana Mesquita and Mr Heitor Sousa. They were hired for the maintenance of the metro, with an authorization from the end of last year, 10 workers. The recruitment of these people is ongoing and will be completed in very few days. Yes, Mrs Ana Mesquita, because there are 29 UTs stopped and we need more people than these in order to recover them. Therefore, we use the temporary hiring of a group of people to help us recover these same compositions and, in this way, we can better serve the passengers of the metro in Lisbon. Mr. Heitor Sousa, there is no provision for the construction of any circular line in Porto. What happens is the following: who designed the start of the Campo Alegre line, injecting the trains in São Bento, misdesigned because, with that, the river Vila was in an unsustainable situation and would be an impossible work. Therefore, the Campo Alegre Line must have its trains injected from the Casa da Música and the pink line, which links São Bento to the Casa da Música, is a line that only makes sense for itself, until it serves two hospitals, the Hospital de Santo António and the Centro Materno-Infantil do Norte. But besides that, it is, I repeat, the beginning of the line of Campo Alegre, and well, and, if I ask myself, I must tell you that I think it makes sense to extend this line to the source to the Marquis and to the Avenue of Combatants. I think it makes all the sense, but it's not a circular line along the Constitution. with regard to Lisbon, and answering the question that has been asked, there is certainly all the search and feasibility studies that justify either the options taken for the Port metro, or the options taken for the Lisbon metro. Right on the direct collision between the two stations extending the red line to Campo de Ourique and the Santos and Estrela stations, the Star station has much more passengers than the other two. This study is neutral, done in the same way and the method is the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u110	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u111	Besides that, of course, this line injects many more passengers coming from other modes of transport, exactly by going to the Sodré Street. I conclude by saying that the most difficult thing, in a network of collective transport, is to be able to bring the supply of demand closer. As we are sure most of the search in the heart of the city of Lisbon, that is where we have to have a distribution line with a greater capacity, and there is a search for it. And only from there can be thought of the expansion of the metropolitan out of the city of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u112	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, the country learned that in 2017 the growth of the Portuguese economy was the highest in the last 17 years. In 2016, it had grown robustly and the forecasts for 2018 point to the maintenance of this extraordinary cycle of growth. A growth obtained with a balance of public accounts, after a right-wing governance experience, marked by compulsive austerity, which blocked the economy, dried up job creation, lowered the income available to families and increased the risk of poverty. The macroeconomic results leave no room for doubt: the economic policy options carried out by the PS government have categorically overturned the catastrophic theses of the opposition and long ago « killed the devil » announced by the then PSD leader. The country has become a success case in Europe for having the ability to demonstrate that, in a sovereign debt crisis framework, the path of expansionist austerity does not lead to a virtuous combination of economic growth and reduction of deficit. After more than two years, it is no longer possible to hide the success of this government's revenue. It is true that there is still a long way to go. But that is precisely why we are here today. Long goes the times when the debates in this House were almost exclusively to debate the bad news of the increase in deficit or the fragility of growth that almost always disappointed. The PS Government has prepared the country to take a step forward, and it is in this framework that this inquiry must be configured to the Government. An interpellation that should call on all of us, Members and rulers, to reflect on the options and the appropriate size of public investment. We cannot discuss public investment data without taking into account that we have been living today the most robust economic growth cycle since 2000, even above our European partners, above the European average and, no less important, supported by a strong investment and export dynamics. Economists know that it is the good combination between public investment and private investment that can leverage the country's growth potential. in this same context, warnings for tonic emphasis on productive investment and investment that attracts and stimulates private investment should not be ignored. This is where we should focus. This is the way the government has gone and that is why it has had good results. It was for these reasons that we set priorities for the implementation of PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), and increased from EUR 4 million in support of enterprises, implemented between 2013 and 2015, to more than EUR 1300 million between 2015 and 2017. But in addition to incentives for private investment, more public investment was needed, using the main funding available in a country with few resources: European funds. But we were surprised again. Now, due to the inability of the right to prepare the program for public projects, but that require administrative procedures and adequate preparation. in the background, this government found the PT 2020 programme « on the ground », completely gross. However, the Government « raised its sleeves » and, at the end of the third quarter of 2017, there are already more than 56 % approvals in PT 2020, having been transferred more than EUR 5, EUR 1 billion of funds, around 20 % of the total allocation. By that date, EUR 3, EUR 4 billion have been transferred from the European Union, about 13 % of the planned value to Portugal, well above the European Union average. Thus, in 2017, public investment increased by 20 % compared to 2016. But more: if we withdraw investment financed by European funds, public investment in 2017 is greater than 2014 and 2015. In addition, in an analysis between budgeted and executed public investment, a theme that has kept the PSD widely, it is found that in 2017, the implementation was lower than the budgeted by EUR 817 million, but in 2014 and 2013, it was always lower than the budgeted by more than EUR 1000 million. In 2015, it is not comparable because it was the year of closure of the program. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This context of great effort in strengthening public investment has brought results. For example, the largest investment in the decade, worth EUR 400 million, is already approved in the railway; the investment in the enlargement of the metropolitan of Lisbon and Porto will advance, and the works will begin in 2019; and, no less important, the investment in Soflusa is ongoing. Moreover, there should be no doubt that the main public investment made by the PS Government was the restructuring of the Portuguese financial system, with particular attention to the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box, returning to the public bank its main function of supporting the investment of the economy. Again, in this matter too, the inheritance received from the right was alarming. But here too the Government's response has proved to be correct and has allowed to correct a serious fragility of our economy by preparing the financial system to support companies. Given that more than 80 % of private investment financing is carried out in the financial system, it is easy to understand the undeniable contribution of this option to investment growth and thus exports. in fact, the investment has the largest growth in the last 19 years, it grows to two digits and three times more than the euro area. As regards exports, they have already contributed 42 % to GDP and have recorded the largest increase in the last seven years. All this was decisive for investor confidence, whose index records leave no doubts and allowed an extraordinary increase in foreign direct investment, where the installation of Google is just another example. This is our conception of public investment: productive investment, which is driven by private investment, which generates confidence and contributes to a good public supply of public infrastructure and services. Mr President, there is a very clear frontier between the options of this government and those of the previous government in terms of public investment. While the PS has achieved support for private investment and the strengthening of public investment, PSD and CDS have thoroughly stopped public investment and, worse than that, have not been able to create conditions for stability in private investment. In addition, they have invested in sectors that are absolutely relevant to the well-being of citizens, for reasons that are obsessively financial to generate revenue in the context of privatisations, higher than those requested by the troika itself. On the other hand, the de-investment in the transport sector on the right side and the inability to prepare the PT 2020 for rapid project implementation was an inheritance which is very expensive to the country and which has demanded much determination from the Government in order to restore public investment at appropriate levels and correct the blackout in the investment options in transport. It is true that the government is aware that much work needs to be done, but everyone understands that recovery from the bottom of the well takes time. Mr President, public investment growth will remain in 2018 and will reach a record value of EUR 4500 million. on this journey, we will maintain, on the one hand, the rigorous assessment of the impacts of investment with public money and, on the other, we will do everything so that this type of investment is driven by private investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u114	Mr António Costa Silva entered in order to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u115	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, hoped that in his speech he would tell us precisely about the 2020 Railway, which only advanced with 15% of the promised works two years ago. And I also expected him to tell us about the disastrous years of investment we've had in recent years. It is true that, of these 15 %, some of the works are mere project releases, i.e., not 15 % of your lie has succeeded. It is that arithmetic does not deceive, Mr Minister and Mr. In fact, the role and government PowerPoints bear everything and, if they are presented before a crowd full of people, even better, they can endure more. The reality is that he can't stand it. Then came the solution of all the evils: the reprogramming of the Community funds—with that, everything would be solved. It's just that she's been announced since 2016 and we have nothing, for now. The breakdown of public investment has been a disaster in the last two years—in the last two and a half years or so—of the governance of the Socialist Party, with the support of all left-wings. In 2016 alone, the investment cuts ranged from EUR 800 million to EUR 800 million. Regarding 2017, numbers are not famous either, but still need to be announced, we are waiting. But when the base is very bad, Mr Minister, any thing is good, you know that. These cuts were much worse than in the time of the troika, in the critical time of the bankruptcy that you left — we cannot let you forget that. It is that it is already happening and social communication is already taking place: you are beginning to be unmasked with your results. [[Protests of PS Members.]] In fact, the Infrastructure Investment Plan 2020 was presented two years ago by Minister Pedro Marques, but it is far from advanced as expected. The Plan includes works in 1193 km of railway lines, between modernization of current and construction of new ones, and by this time they should have already started works in 528 km. however, they only started works at 79 km, Minister and Member — 79 km! This is what makes the press clear. But this is also what we have been reporting for some time. of the 10 projects which, according to information from the infrastructures of Portugal, should already be on the ground, only the two referred to are in works. It is not by chance that the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) has this disastrous rate that, in two and a half years, with your execution, has not yet reached 10 % — and we are in the fifth year, Minister! The question I ask Mr Carlos Pereira is simple: what will be the size of your lie? Will it stay for 15%, or will the lie increase? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u116	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u117	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, I must say that this debate reveals exactly the disinvestment that you have made, particularly in the transport sector. It is that we have already said and the government has already said that there is much to do following what was the blackout in transport policy that you did, at the time when they governed this country, between 2012 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And, Mr President, I would like to clarify what you said about the implementation of the investment, which has already been mentioned by Mr Hélder Amaral and which has to be clarified. in fact, in 2017, the difference between the budgeted investment and the executed investment was EUR 800 million. But both Mr Hélder Amaral and Mr Hélder Amaral know that in 2014 and 2015 the investment executed was below the investment budgeted by more than EUR 1000 million. That was the practice. And what happened was that in 2014 and 2015 the execution was much less than what you budgeted. This is the lie that you always ride. And in fact, it makes no sense to keep insisting on this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u118	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This interpellation of the PCP refers me to the memories of childhood, to a poem by Augusto Gil, the Snow Ballada, which prayed as follows: « Hit lightly, as it is who calls for me. - Will it be rain? Will they be people? / People are not, certainly/ and rain does not beat like this(...) » For it is, put this opposition 'accountful' : it votes in favour of budgets, votes in favour of everything, but protest in English mild. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister of the Environment, in his last presence in this Parliament, pointed out whenever the reforms were in such a way that from the summer of 2017 users would already feel this difference – in fact, in 2016, Mr. Minister said that 2017 would be the year of all reforms, of all investments in transport. Mr Prime Minister also announced to the country an investment of EUR 30 million in the metropolitan area, and so far zero! Yes, sir. Ministers, this government is the champion of promises, as we have seen here today, but it happens that reality is another, and very hard, for public transport users. They continue to arrive late and at bad hours to their commitments, whether in the morning or at work, on their return to their homes. Mr Environment Minister, you remember the promise of hiring machines made in February 2016 — two years ago! — to put an end to the abolition of trains in the metropolitan area? Oh, my God! And the crewmen, what did you promise, to end the suppression of ships on the Roof in a rush hour? Oh, my God! So far, we don't know them! And the cannibalization of trains and boats to deal with the lack of circulating material? Oh, my God! Today there are 30 cars stopped due to lack of parts and, as is known, on the Roof, six ships are also stopped. And the capitulations have already ended, which will allow you to purchase parts for the stopped fleets and which are becoming obsolete? Oh, my God! Mr Environment Minister, the reality of Portuguese is very hard. The Portuguese have ridiculous waiting times today, when it comes to public transport, worthy of Third World, for more than 15 minutes in peak time and at the weekend it is half an hour. Users wait longer at the stations and then travel canned. Only that figure that exists in Asia is missing, a man pushing people into trains. « If a year ago the Metro situation was already serious, with 20 cars stopped due to failure or lack of parts, it is now chaotic, with more than 30 inoperative carriages(...) ». Who says this are user committees, not PSD. The gentlemen. Ministers — Do You Remember? — they already have two years of governance and are in the middle of a mandate! Take your responsibilities. The Portuguese demand answers, they don't want to know about the past. Mr Minister for Infrastructure, the PSD assumes its responsibilities and we are very proud of what we have done, but, look, the Portuguese complaints are now, not two years ago, not three years ago. [[PSD applause.]] By the way, what have you gentlemen done again? What careers have you changed? What has changed the lives of the Portuguese? Nothing! Mrs. PSD Members, there is one thing that this government has done, which was to increase the price of transport. [[PSD not, PS!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u120	It was the biggest increase in the last decade and, about this, I haven't heard anything from your mouth, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD is on the other side!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u121	in fact, ladies and gentlemen, there is a consensus in all parliamentary benches, from left to right:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u122	The honourable Member is disoriented!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u123	...the lives of the users have worsened. Normality has become the delay, the exception is when times are fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u124	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate, in fact, confirms the simulation of the opposition we feared at the beginning. We do not hide that there are positive data in the Portuguese economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u126	They will not get us to devalue what is the effort of companies, Portuguese and, of course, government merit. in this regard, we do not want to be demagogic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u127	in that matter! Only in that matter! And even in that...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u128	Now it is clear and it is clear that complaints and services are slow to improve in public services, in areas of sovereignty or in areas of State responsibility. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] So we don't need any studies. Mr. Carlos Pereira, is it true or not that the worst sector in the country, when you left the government, was exactly the business sector of the State, particularly the debt in the transport sector? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u129	To ignore this is not serious and does not strictly add anything to the debate. And that's why I don't want to ignore anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u131	Pay attention to the difficulty of the Portuguese, to those who need the service of the State, without giving an explanation why this is at least a lack of responsibility. And it's not from today, it started yesterday! When a government partner copies or repeats the criticisms the CDS makes about health and Mr. Prime Minister laughs, it is a lack of sense,... [[On the contrary!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u132	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u133	...is a lack of responsibility. [[PS and BE protests.]] in this matter, the Left Block can even begin first, but there is a difference, is that on our side is sincere and true, on your side is simulation. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u134	And we started longer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u135	But we will still be right to them, because in fact there are 700 000 users with a lack of a family doctor. It is clear that there is a lack of specialists and this is a reality that does not matter who first complains. It is a reality that there is, that the opposition denounces and that, by the way, a partner of the government also denounces.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u136	And how many doctors did you have before this government? Oh, my God! How many doctors were missing? Oh, my God! It's the opposite of what he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u137	I was hoping that the government would at least say what the solution is and not joke or make fun of the matter. Then, the Portuguese Communist Party presents us here, data saying: "There is a shortage of funding"! But they vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u138	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u139	I'm done now, Mr. President. There is insufficient funding, but they vote in favour of the budget. in higher education, funding is not even enough to cover current management, but they vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u140	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u141	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as the other says: look at what I say, do not look at what I vote for!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u143	You're a mess! It's sinking the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u144	That is your responsibility, not ours. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u145	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to welcome the CFP's initiative to bring to the debate the situation of public communications and transport services and, therefore, we want to deepen some of our interventions and raise some questions for this debate. The Left Block considers that the public offer of quality transport, comfortable, fast, integrated, accessible and cheap is a central function of the State and that the democratization of access to mobility is its design.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u147	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u148	A good network of public communications and transport creates development, combats social and territorial inequalities and promotes environmental sustainability and economic efficiency. I mean, improve the quality of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u149	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u150	from this point of view, public investment in transport is a condition for this quality of life to be achieved and therefore, Mr. Member of the Government, it might be important that, given that there is a clear delay in the implementation of the 2020 Railway Programme, the Government would commit itself to this House to promoting and presenting a new timetable for this programme here in the Assembly. Finally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u151	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u152	One last note, Mr. President, just to say that public transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u153	Sir, I'm sorry but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u154	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, public transport must be cheap and, therefore, we will continue to beat ourselves so that discounts in the public transport service are wider and more visible, especially for young people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u155	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health said here that the government's bet is investment in people, in the professionals of the National Health Service ( SNS ). This obviously implies, and must involve, the hiring of professionals who need to ensure that health care is provided in a timely manner and that the waiting lists for consultations are combated, as there are more patients waiting for a consultation for more than two years, and this is unacceptable. Investing in people is opening the competitions for the recent specialists, who have been waiting for this competition for about months. Investing in SNS, people and their professionals is combating the existence of undifferentiated doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u157	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. Investing in the National Health Service and its professionals, i.e. public investment in health, is, in fact, the guarantee that users have to comply with the right to health and the right to quality and timely services. This is the compromise of the CFP and this is what we have been doing here today with this interpellation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u159	For the last intervention of this round, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We talked about investment during this debate and there is no better investment than a country can do than investment in education, investment in public school as a real engine of equal opportunities. Contrary to what has been said, this investment in education has been made and has been reinforced in the successive State budgets of this government, supported by the Socialist Party. A three-tier reinforcement: in the school park, with 350 million euros... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u161	... and more than 500 ongoing school operations ( 300 for pre-school and 1. the cycle, 250 to 2. o is 3. the cycle and secondary) ; a new dimension in the equity of the education system at all ages, with 170 new rooms in preschool, with 260 million in school social action, which has also been strengthening its value in budgets for school textbooks, school meals and study visits, and with bets in vocational education and adult education, which was so despised by the previous government and right. So these are facts, they are numbers, they are dimensions in which you are investing on a daily basis in public school. It is said that there is no more investment in public school is false. It is said that the teaching class or human resources have not been valued is false, because the third reinforcement was even in human capital, with more training for our teachers, with more than 1639 teachers placed in the school system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u162	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u163	... with more 2500 operational assistants in public school and, above all, with the appreciation of our teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u164	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u165	This is our bet, in a quality public school, where no one stays behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now enter the stage of the closing of the debate. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has made this inquiry on investment in public services with two central concerns. On the one hand, we wanted to give a voice to the workers and the people, because we know the problems and difficulties that each day feel in public services. in health, education, transport or communications, in many public services, there are problems and today they were brought here by the PCP because these difficulties have to be known and solved. On the other hand, public services are an instrument of realization of social rights without which it is not possible to develop the country, they are an essential factor of development, progress and social justice. Good public services, with valued workers and numbers corresponding to needs, with buildings and modernized equipment, to operate with quality and accessible to all citizens are a factor in development and progress and we continue to fight for. The perspective of the CFP, which we have brought to this debate, is that it is necessary to invest in public services to develop the country and there is no justification for the government to respond to this need. In the State Budget for 2018, the mechanisms needed for this response were approved, including the disabling of investment funds in the areas of health, education and transport, on a proposal from the CFP. There is no justification for not solving public services problems with the investment they need, in whatever area. The Government has all the conditions to solve these problems and to implement the necessary investment in public services — this is the requirement that the CFP will continue to do. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the problems of public services were not created yesterday. We know that the problems of public services have their origin in decades of right-wing policy, in decades of policies of de-investment, dismantling and disorganization of services, staff reduction, privatization of public enterprises. We know the point at which all of this came with the national disaster policy of the PSD/CDS government, with the privatization of strategic enterprises including TTC and TAP, and with the attempt to privatize other public transport companies, with the fall in investment, which only reached a fall of 38, 7%, with the discouragement, demotivation and overload on professionals and with the impoverishment of workers in public services. How many public service professionals have not enlarged the ranks of the 500 000 Portuguese who emigrated in the period of the previous government? How many doctors, nurses, teachers and qualified technicians have not been forced to look abroad for job prospects and future prospects after being expelled from the country by the former government? We know the dramatic consequences of the policy on the right and in particular of the policy of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, consequences that certainly do not fade away overnight and that will last over time, and we know that these consequences will last as long as it takes to break up with the policy on the right and to reverse the investment options in public services. It was important to remove the PSD and the Government's CDS to halt the policy of destruction of public services and companies that was in progress, but that is not enough. It is necessary to break this path and make the choice for an alternative policy, investment in public services and the valorisation of its workers. It was this alternative policy that we also brought to this debate, an alternative policy that responds to the many concrete problems we have brought here and that effectively corresponds to the interests of public service users and a national development strategy. the hiring of workers to re-qualify buildings and equipment, to realize investments in infrastructures and transport companies to create intermodal passes and to reduce rates and tariffs, to solve the problems of waiting lists and the difficulties of access to health services to services directly by public enterprise services, without outsourcing of services and PPPs (public-private partnerships), the CFP has advanced a set of proposals and measures that respond to the problems that are daily felt by the people and that give a perspective to what it is and to whom serves the alternative policy we defend. We realized that the PSD and CDS preferred that the PCP should shut up, hide the difficulties of the Portuguese or, then, that it would do as the PSD and the CDS did, that they would now ignore the difficulties of people or instrumentalize them to the party dispute.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u169	For that we already have the PSD and CDS. from the PCP, we maintain the commitment we have to the workers and the people, giving voice to their concerns and problems and defending their solutions. It is with this determination that we have intervened, taking advantage of every opportunity to take action that responds to the problems of workers and the people. It is with this determination that we will continue to intervene, taking as far as possible the measures for workers and the people and not saving strength in defending the alternative policy that responds to the structural problems of the country. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u170	For the last closing intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment, João Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bet on public transport is even a mark of this government, and this begins to be noted in assuming the most ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 ( 24 % in the transport sector only ) ; it is consolidated by the fact that we believe in the public service provided by companies, keeping these companies unalienably in the public sector; it is reinforced by the delivery to the municipalities of the management of the railway undertakings of Carris and STCP, a decision that we pride ourselves on, placing the management in a flexible manner in the same hands as those who manage the public road, and we do so after making the purchase of 510 high-end buses, of which about 400 are for these companies, an investment already contracted by 154 million euros ; and it is also added to the exemplary competition for the operation of the metropolitan of the port, which has been approved by the European Commission, as well as in the investments of which they are fully engaged in the metropolitics, the supply of the transport sector, and the transfer of the transport sector, which is also complement of the most obvious, the supply of the supply of the goods of the goods of the transport of the goods of the transport of the transport of the goods of the goods of the transport sector. in the case of ship companies and the Lisbon Metropolitan, we still lack what we wanted. It seems clear that there is greater confidence in passengers, because otherwise we would not have had a 5 % increase in its number. those who remember that in the time of the previous government we lost 100 million passengers in public transport, we can counter that in the last year alone the demand increased by 23 million, with the two metropolitans, Lisbon and Porto, beating absolute records of the number of passengers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be possible to recover the 100 million lost passengers in a legislature and, I confess, I never imagined that this was possible. at the Lisbon Metro we were stopped for five years, the workshops were empty. We are a very small customer of unique suppliers and this makes it difficult to purchase parts. We now admit 10 technicians for maintenance, but we do not deny that we should continue to subcontract tasks to reach the end of May with 89 compositions in operation, i.e., more seven than those we have today. It is anachronistic the pneumatic door system that still exists in some metropolitan compositions today. Therefore, at the beginning of March a public tender will be launched for the replacement of all these doors, amounting to EUR 1, 6 million, and we are concluding the reprogramming of the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources ), which will enable the investments of the expansions of the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto, as well as to start the remodeling of the fleets of Transtex and Soflusa. The metropolitan expansion works will begin at the end of 1. the semester of 2019. Port metro projects are under way and still this year will be launched the projects for their construction and the study of the environmental impact of the Lisbon metro will enter the Authority of AIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) already in the next month of March. in the metro of Lisbon, the closing of the circular line of the Cais do Sodré to Campo Grande will revolutionize its operation. The greatest difficulty in any public transport network is to approach the supply of demand, even more so when we talk about heavy ways, such as the metropolitan. It is therefore essential to concentrate the greatest offer in the heart of the city of Lisbon, thinking, after that, about its expansion. On the rolling stock, we will launch this year the competitions for Lisbon and Porto and the re-renting of the new compositions will be fully financed by annual revenue from the environmental fund, these revenues which, remember, are increased with the end of the exemption of ISP (charge on petroleum products) in the production of electricity from coal, taken by this government. But let's also talk about the systems of ethics. The Pass Andante, in the Port Metropolitan Area, is a success, with an increasing number of customers and an ever-wider network. On 1 April next there will be a completely dematerialized and extended system throughout the Andante Pass network, which will greatly simplify access to transport and make invoices more fair. at this time, the notice for the application to the POEUR of EUR 3, EUR 5 million for fleet management, directed to public and private companies, which will increase the availability of online information, will reduce waiting times, strengthen security and eco-conduction. But our concerns go a long way beyond the recovery of companies and the improvement of service provided. By the end of 2019 competitions for the award of road transport concessions will have to be completed throughout the country. This is a profound revolution in how to plan and organize transport networks. For once, we will have an integrated offer that sets paths, schedules and rates, as well as public service obligations that will give power to the metropolitan areas and to the unprecedented CIM(intermunicipal communities). I don't like the word, but this is really a reform. If the responsibility lies with the local authority, the government is very committed to the success of this operation. In addition to technical support from the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport, IP ), the Public Transport Service Fund, which was also formed by the Government at the end of the past year, will financially support the activities of the new metropolitan authorities. I want to leave three final notes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u172	Mr Minister, I am sorry to have to interrupt, but there is a burb in the room that prevents us from hearing it in condition. So, I want to ask the ladies. Members who create conditions for us to hear your speech. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, I leave three final notes, being the first on electric mobility. The number of vehicles which came into circulation last year more than doubled that of the previous year, which had already been a record. It is thus proven that the strategies to support the purchase of vehicles and the strengthening of public cargoes decided by this Government have been successful. The second note has to do with shared mobility. The day-to-day does not allow us to allow the offer of collective transport to satisfy all our mobility needs. There must be individual, car, motorcycle or bicycle solutions, but these solutions do not have to imply the possession of the vehicle, the ideal would be to be made on shared vehicles, and therefore the last State budget has decided to assign a tax reduction to those who choose this option, which is in the final phase of completion and will be a reality in the next half. Finally, the third note concerns social justice and the incentive to use collective transport. Only on the Lisbon Metropolitan is the number of free trips made by boys and girls under 12 years of age nearly 1, 2 million in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The allocation of discounts from the Sub23 and 4 /NP 18 passes without a resource condition is a clear sign that the country is starting a new urban mobility standard. There is no, nor will there ever be, finished systems, but I am deeply convinced that less than 10 years remain so that in the largest Portuguese cities urban transit is no longer a problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u174	Mrs. Members, completed the appeal to the Government No 17 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we will start the voting period. I would therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic system for the verification of the deliberation quorum and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 196 meetings, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Mariana Mortágua, Mr BE, Mr Pedro Alves, Mr PSD, Mr Telmo Correia, Mr CDS-PP, Mr 199 Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us begin with vote No 484 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Raul Hestnes Ferreira, presented by BE and subscribed by PS Members. I would ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u175	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Raul Hestnes Ferreira died last Sunday, in Lisbon, 86 years old. The architect, son of writer José Gomes Ferreira, designed, among other buildings, the House of Culture of Beja, the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Lisbon, the new building of the ISCTE, the Library of Marvila and the House of Albarrac. Hestnes Ferreira also made the renovation project of the Martinho da Arcada coffee and the remodeling of the Évora Museum. He was among the finalists the competition for the Opera da Bastilla, in Paris. The housing projects include the district of Fonsecas and Calçada, in Alvalade, Lisbon, created within the SAAL brigades, and the one of the Cooperatives People's Unit and 25 April, which dates back to 1975. He received the National Prize for Architecture and Urbanism, the National Prize for Architecture from the former association of architects and the Valmor Prize. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Raul Hestnes Ferreira and sends a message of regret to his family».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u176	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 484 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 485/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Natalia Nunes, presented by PS. To read the vote, Mr. Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u177	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last February 13th the writer Natalia Nunes. Romancist, memorialist, dramatist, essayist and translator, Natalia Nunes was born in Lisbon on November 18, 1921 and debuted in 1952 with the book of Memoirs Horas Vivas. Subsequently, it was highlighted through novels such as the Autobiography of a romantic woman and Venus Turbulenta. He built one of the most vast works as an accountant with titles like at least one hippopotamus, The Old Ladies and Madness by Shoes. During the years of the dictatorship, Natália Nunes stood out for his anti-fascist resistance and as a member of the Portuguese Writing Society, which was to be closed by PIDE in 1965. In addition, he translated into Portuguese great names of universal literature, such as Tolstoi, Simonov or Elsa Triolet, working with publishers such as Portuguese or Cosmos Editions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 15 February 2018, expresses its regret at the death of Natália Nunes and addresses to its relatives and friends their heartfelt condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u178	We turn to the vote on vote No 485/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been readi. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 482 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With regret and condemnation of the murder of 197 environmental activists in 2017, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Deputies. I would ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u179	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « The British daily newspaper The Guardian, in collaboration with Global Witness, international NGOs that find links between the exploitation of natural resources and conflicts, poverty, corruption and human rights abuses, has been highlighting the deaths of hundreds of environmental activists in recent years. The statistical data provided by these organizations reveal that 201 people were murdered in 2016, and this chacina continued in 2017, with more 197 environmentalists being killed because of their involvement in environmental protection. Only in Brazil since the beginning of 2015 have 145 people died who mostly tried to fight illegal logging in Amazonia. Most of these murders occur in remote villages of developing countries, where the abundance of resources is often proportionally inverse to compliance with the rule of law. In all these cases, justice is rare or sinful because it is late. Those who murder are usually unpunished, while the victims are criminalized and are targeted by local police or corporate security. Sadly, corruption and economic power have shaped the application of the law to their own will. Thus, the blindness of profit and unbridled expansion allow mining industries, poachers and infrastructure projects to destroy lands, forests, rivers and wildlife. This situation will tend to last unless governments and industries act in favour of the planet's environment and resources. For this reason, it is essential to promote awareness of this problem that kills so many men and women every year. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the murder of hundreds of environmental activists worldwide and condemns the scourge of human rights and environmental sustainability'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u180	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 482 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting No 481/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings to the National Selection of Futsal, for having a sacred champion of Europe, presented by the President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Greens and PAN. I am pleased to register and inform the plenary that they are among us, to witness this moment, the President of the Portuguese Football Federation, Fernando Gomes, the Vice-President, Humberto Coelho, the Director of the Futsal Section, Pedro Dias, the National Selectionor of Futsal, Jorge Brás, and, in his own representation and in representation of the players of the Futsal team, the players João Matos and Tiago Brito, who greet on behalf of the Bureau and Parliament. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now, on your behalf, read the greeting vote to the National Selection of Futsal : « last Saturday, February 10, 2018, history was made in Portuguese futsal. at an exciting final played in Ljubljana, Slovenia, the Futsal National Selection won Spain by 3-2 and was first won by the European Champion. Members of the Assembly of the Republic welcome this brilliant victory, which culminates in a path of success of high sports merit. This is a achievement that mirrors well the talent and team spirit of our players, but also the great evolution of Portuguese futsal, increasingly able to train and enhance talents, as well as mobilize many thousands of young people to practice fashion throughout the country. in this greeting, we accompany the millions of Portuguese who vibrated during live transmissions and the thousands who waited for the Selection at Humberto Delgado Airport. The elements of the Selection became, on their own merits, heroes of national sport, as already unanimously recognized by the holders of the various sovereign bodies. Likewise, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, greets and honors the Selectionor Jorge Braz, Captain Richardinho and all players, as well as the technical team and the Portuguese Football Federation, responsible for more this national joy». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote on this vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] We turn to vote No 483/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Welcoming the joint participation of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the Winter Olympics ( CFP ). I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Winter Olympics are taking place in Pyeong Chang, in the Republic of Korea. on this occasion, delegations from the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea paraded together in the Olympic Stadium, under a single flag, and formed a team for joint participation in one of the competitions. In addition, there have been high-level bilateral meetings and high-level political and sports leaders of the DPRK and a significant number of citizens of this country are present at these Games, which take place in the Republic of Korea. This event translates the efforts of the authorities of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea into a process of direct dialogue, aiming to alleviate the tension situation that has been experienced on the Korean Peninsula and to contribute to an approximation, which may in future lead to the peaceful reunification of the Korean homeland, a deep aspiration of the Korean people. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 9 February 2018, welcomes the gesture of the joint participation of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the opening ceremony of the Olympic Winter Games, welcomes the Korean people and the two countries for their efforts in dialogue and mutual approach in order to alleviate tension on the Korean Peninsula and hopes that this process will lead to the demilitarization and denuclearization of the region and the realization of the reunification desired by the Korean people".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u182	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 483/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u183	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u184	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u185	Mr President, in order to inform the Bureau that I shall deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1224 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to support municipalities significantly affected by summer fires ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u188	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u189	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-15.u190	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1264 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the suspension of eviction actions in the function houses of the Republican National Guard in Alcântara, Lisbon ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1213 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the seasonal wetland of fresh water from White Alagoas (BE). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1250 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of actions aimed at defending and valuing the wet area of White Alagoas ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and BE abstentions.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1285 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by preserving and classifying the Algarve wetlands ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, with no further initiatives to vote, I have to announce the agenda of the next plenary session, which will take place on Wednesday, 21 February, at 3 p.m., with a first item devoted to political declarations and a second point devoted to the assessment of petition No 273/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request Portugal to disengage from the Treaty and Amending Protocols to the 1990 Orthographic Agreement and the repeal of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 8 / 2011 (António Duarte Arnaut et al.). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before formally closing the session, I, on my behalf and on behalf of the Bureau, wish good work for the PSD Congress that will be held this weekend. Good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 54 minutes.]]
