ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the authority to open the doors and allow public entrance into the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, which results from a PS marking, on the theme « The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy », I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to account for the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill No 130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for the application of the automatic access scheme to financial information to residents in national territory and the projects of lein. 870 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Introducing new rules of transparency in the banking sector and strengthening the powers of parliamentary investigations in access to banking information ( proceeds from the forty-ninth amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and the third amendment of the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ( BE ), which is down to 5. the Commission, 871 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures a system for access and automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 872 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Preconception protection regime, assisted drug procreation, pregnancy, childbirth, birth and puerperium ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 873 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 874 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — 35 hours in the private sector for increased job creation and replacement of rights ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE ), 875 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the technical unit for the recovery of wealth resulting from the credits that read the national bank ( PCP ), 876 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for disclosure of information relating to the granting of high-value credits ( CFP ), and 877 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Access to banking information by parliamentary committees of inquiry and transparency in respect of large unencumbered or restructured loans in financial institutions receiving from the State support for their capitalisation ( PSD ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions n. 1601 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent retraining of the Basic School 2 / 3 / Sec. Dr. Bento da Cruz in Montalegre ( PSD ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1602 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1603 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of School EB 2, 3 of Lordelo ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1604 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to the implementation of the new prison establishment in the Algarve region ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1605 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reassess the application of the special programmes of natural parks already published and involves in its discussion and weighting the authorities and local entities and agents of the various territories covered ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Existence of nutritionists / dietists and pharmacists in IPSS ( PCP ), 1607 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government quickly conclude the negotiation process of the senior diagnosis and therapy ( PSD ) career, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1608 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists in institutions providing care to the elderly ( NAP), 1609 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of a public and inclusive school in all compulsory education ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revalorization of teaching career(BE), 1611 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of School EB 2 / 3 Professor Gonçalo Sampaio, in Póvoa de Lannoso ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões, in Guimarães ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Joaquim High School in Araújo, Penafiel ( BE ), which also lowers the Commission to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now get on the agenda, which, as I said, results from a PS marking on the theme « The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy ». Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion and consequent strengthening of the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy are two priority axes of this Government's programme. in this regard, it is important to stress that we know the recent economic history and the path of affirmation of the internationalisation of our economy and we do not forget its importance, especially in an increasingly globalised world where the competitiveness of economies requires the presence on the international market in conditions more favourable than those of its competitors. We respect the political options of the past, but we do not agree with all the theses offered to the Portuguese. Today, it is time to demonstrate that the Socialist Party was right and that the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy requires the mobilization of all economic agents and the installation of a climate of confidence. But none of these purposes can be achieved by placing capital income against labour incomes, as did the PSD and the CDS. The increasing productivity of the country, an important condition to strengthen the process of internationalization, must be created from innovation and qualification and never from a impoverishment of Portuguese in order to improve the country's competitiveness to promote exports or attract foreign direct investment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2005 the weight of exports in GDP ( gross domestic product) was 26, 7%. In 2017, this indicator amounted to 43 % at current prices, representing the highest ever value. This data also reflects a positive balance of the commercial balance of almost EUR 2000 million, significantly twice the verified in 2015 and one of the largest since the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) published this series. at the same time, exports in 2017 grew almost 8 %, but above all increased our market shares, revealing that we are gaining competitiveness. in another area of the internationalisation process, the weight of foreign direct investment also showed record values in 2017, representing 62 % of GDP. These data reinforce the responsibilities and ambition of the government and demonstrate that, contrary to the prophecies of some prophets, perhaps followers of Nostradamus, the path of affirmation of internationalization is not incompatible with social sensitivity, return of income and — imagine what was said at the time — a left government. These data reflect a clear path, without diabolization of wage growth, reaffirming the bet on competitiveness factors and the confidence of entrepreneurs. The Socialist Party's Government was aware of the importance of external demand for GDP and had no doubt that it was necessary to strengthen foreign direct investment, not only because it is a necessary mechanism to finance our economy but also because the strengthening of that investment is a source of innovation, especially if it is ensured that it is transferred to national companies and also a source of job creation. The results are in view of all: we have achieved more job creation through foreign direct investment, more foreign investment flows, more technology transfer, more exports, more market share and a better trade balance. But we are aware that the path of internationalization is not an acquired data. All actors must be convened for this challenge where everyone competes with everyone on the international market. In addition, the data also reflect that there are risk factors and weaknesses that must be combated and cancelled. For example, 74 % of Portuguese international trade takes place within the European Union and only three markets account for 45 % of all our exports. In addition, the five main exporting companies export almost 15 % of all Portuguese exports and 50 % of all exporters only work with one market. in this framework, the Socialist Party set in its Government programme new challenges with very concrete objectives: obtaining more exports, more exporters, more markets, more foreign direct investment, more Portuguese direct investment abroad, more value added and more technological intensity. To that end, it was absolutely essential to systematize policy options to promote these objectives. A cross-sectional action was essential in order to ensure the effectiveness of the actions that should be implemented. Thus, the Internationalization Programme, created by Government resolution in 2017, introduces dozens of initiatives to overcome the fragility of our international trade but also to strengthen the competitiveness factors that affect our exports, to improve confidence in the country and to ensure a robust and attractive brand image. After just over four months of the implementation of the Programme, much of the measures are being implemented. Some of them will be completed in the first half and others by the end of the year but, above all, we are aware and sure that the consecration of a new generation of political options, with a view to promoting Portuguese international trade, but also foreign direct investment, will make it possible to ensure a fundamental contribution of internationalisation to the creation of wealth and job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All this, without any hesitation, in the sense that this path can and should be done without making Portugal's citizens poorer to compete in the international market for impoverishment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, more than at the end of 2015, we are sure that this should be our way. That is why we will be engaged in this framework, because the facts and the results of our options are not a sight fire, in fact, as I have just demonstrated and as the honourable Members do. Members have just seen the graphics that were displayed. It is in view of the success of the Socialist Party's Government's options, supported by the Portuguese left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During the intervention, graphs were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u5	Mr Carlos Pereira, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u6	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u7	Of course, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor for this, first of all, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u8	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, we know that the discussion will focus on those who have promoted exports the most and when, for the NAP, it is important to question what is exported. And here, the government has lost a fundamental opportunity to dynamize the economic line of organic agri-food. in this sector, the trade balance of Portugal remains weak, being the country dependent on imports from countries such as France and Spain. This economic and commercial scenario tends to worsen with the increase in domestic demand for organic food and the lack of response from the food market in the sector. For this reason, we are asking, Mr Carlos Pereira, if it is not the time of the socialist bench to push and encourage the government to ensure investment in order to implement definitely the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture (ENAB). Only in this way will we be able to reverse the huge imbalance between demand and reduced supply, not only by satisfying the internal market, but also by making Portugal an important exporter of biological products such as other countries in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u9	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u10	Mr President, Mr Pereira, your initial presentation has brought us several graphs, but perhaps the honourable Member has forgotten to remind us of the image that led to these results. We must not forget that the creation of wealth also goes through the tourism we currently have in Portugal, which is a dynamic and growing tourism. This is partly due to the policies implemented by the previous Government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not all are roses. I refer to the Service of Foreigners and Borders ( SEF ), insofar as you are unable to respond to the entry of tourists in the country. in this matter, Portugal is failing, and it is failing, because it cannot respond to everything that is happening in the country. The tourists arrive — we warned that more tourism was necessary and we introduced policies for this very thing — but then there are two, three and four hours left at the airports in order to get into the country. Without calling into question all the merit that has made the economy grow, I want to reiterate that the tourist reception work begins at home and Portugal is not being able to do so. Mr President, what has the Socialist Government done in this regard? What image of Portugal do we want to project abroad? What image do we intend to give? Considering that the strategy of this government is also going to project tourism, the country continues to be one of Europe's main tourist destinations and given that the period at which the number of tourists is increasing is coming, what is the government doing to prevent the same sights again this year at airports, rows and more? Oh, my God! According to recent news from the public, we know that the SEF is also not being able to respond due to lack of means, so I ask you whether or not the government has increased these means. with regard to investment capture, what picture do we have of a country that promotes itself as a destination and awakens investment but then does not provide conditions for that investment to be realized? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u11	To reply, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank the honourable Members. Members who have asked me questions and I begin by answering Mr André Silva. Mr President, the process of internationalization of the Portuguese economy has also at present some difficulties and they have been exposed in the presentation I made in this introduction. In fact, there are some structural issues that the Government, with its Internationalisation Programme, is trying to overcome. The most relevant are the fact that there is an excessive concentration of the export process in only three countries and that, for example, 74 % of exports are concentrated in the European Union, which is a process that we must be able to overcome. With regard to the question which you have put to me, I must say that this is an issue which is being equated also in the Internationalisation Programme. As you know, there is a significant set of measures that this Programme closes and there is one in particular that has to do with the promotion of value chains. And the promotion of value chains implies, exactly, seeking to find a solution so that products such as agricultural products can possibly increase their value in the international landscape. This is an effort that we all have to make, which the government is doing and which, of course, has to do with the actors in the sector, with the actors in the agricultural sector, particularly organic agriculture. I would like to reply to Mrs Helga Correia directly to the question she raised and to the expression she used when she said that « Portugal was failing».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u13	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u14	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are now showing the charts precisely so that the PSD and the CDS would avoid making the usual language that this is failing, but it seems not worth showing these giant graphics, where everyone has seen that Portugal, in terms of exports and international trade, is not failing. I know that you would like me to fail, that you are uncomfortable with the results of the internationalisation process, whether in terms of exports or in terms of foreign direct investment, but the truth is that Portugal is not failing in these matters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u15	So it's good that you guys are. PSD Members get used to the idea that the Socialist Party Government, supported by the Left, has achieved what you hoped it would not achieve: an effective internationalization process, an internationalization process with clear results, with exports growing and with foreign direct investment growing. This, you didn't want it to happen, but it happened! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wanted to leave a note that seems very important to me. You said at the beginning of this government’s mandate — and we have not forgotten it — that it would be impossible to trust exporters and that it would be impossible to obtain more export if we continued with the idea that wages could be raised. Mrs Deputy, I wanted to tell you something that seems very important to me: in 2017, when exports grew the most in Portugal, it was also a time when wages grew very much. Do you know how much they've grown, compared to 2015? They grew up five times more and still exports grew much more than in 2015 when you ruled Portugal. Therefore, this idea that you wanted to pass at the beginning of our mandate, the mandate of the Government of the Socialist Party, that it was impossible to have a robust internationalization process, with more exports and more foreign direct investment, delivering income to people, is fully clarified. On the particular issues of tourism, it is obvious that tourism has been a decisive contribution to exports. We do not deny that, indeed, we have done so. This government has implemented a strategy that has ensured more tourism and therefore more exports. There are problems — that is true! — but the government has tried to find solutions and, of course, even in the issues it has referred to, to find measures to allow the things that have happened in the past, and that we also do not like, of course, being overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u16	Mr Ernesto Ferraz has the floor for intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese economy has been increasingly internationalizing in recent decades, with a strong acceleration of the process in recent years. In the face of an external framework characterized by the interdependence of economies, the globalisation of markets and the globalization of competition, internationalisation is an inevitability, forcing companies to adopt strategies to ensure their competitiveness in an enlarged market and allow them to gain in the value chain of products. Export is a way to reduce the dependence of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) on domestic markets, which strengthens their competitiveness and enhances their sustainability in the medium and long term. The sale of products and services outside the national geographic territory presupposes increased risks compared to the domestic market because they are concerned about economic activities that cross international borders, so it is important to know the different stages of this process and the challenges that arise. The growth of world trade is an opportunity for the continued increase in Portuguese exports, a decisive factor for the country's economic growth. It should be noted that increased exports also make us more exposed to international cycles and therefore it is important to create conditions for substitution of imports. in this sense, it will be crucial to develop import substitution initiatives where there is more external vulnerability and better competitive conditions, particularly in the food sector, expressly supporting the development of national production. This is one of the measures of the political agreement between the Left Block and the PS which has enabled the current governance and which continues to be largely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u19	Promoting national production in the food sector will always depend on the competitiveness of production because no company will be able to avoid imports into the European Union into products that are significantly cheaper than those produced in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u21	We need to train SMEs in response to public markets. We have proposed to remove access barriers, systematize and provide databases with detailed and up-to-date information on investments in infrastructure, programmed and ongoing, providing technical support in certification or pre-qualification processes, as suppliers, and support in the organization of consortia or other forms of cooperation between SMEs, in the submission of proposals and identification of funding to customers. There have not been sufficient support for urgent investments for SMEs in the traditional Portuguese sectors — from textiles to ceramics — especially in the case of investments in technological centres, so requested by companies in the sector and considered vital for the development of the Portuguese technology base. One of the most important measures for these SMEs is to create conditions for mergers and achieve dimensions that are comfortable for companies to face export markets. But the most important measure of all will be the recapitalisation of SMEs, given that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese business fabric is decapitalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u23	SMEs also experience many difficulties in access to credit insurance and the guarantees necessary to address the risks of export markets. Another of the measures agreed with the Socialist Party in 2015 concerns the need to introduce mechanisms to favour, in public support, exporting or operating companies outside the country, whose production process incorporates greater national resources, as is done in other European countries, in respect of Community rules. National production incorporation ratios in multinational-held industries should have minimum legal levels, but for this reason supply SMEs also needed to have a much larger financial muscle and to invest more annually in research and development, so that they could be at the level of the quality of foreign suppliers. One of the possible means for this training, in particular ensuring access to credit and the guarantees necessary to address the risks of export markets would be through the Development Bank. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The news that comes to us about the usefulness of the so-called 'Financial Development Institution', the U.S. Development Bank, is scarce and quite worrying. It appears that there appear to be lines of credit amounting to EUR 1000 million, of which its application and usefulness are not known in the economy. of these 1000 million, how much is it actually being used?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u24	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u25	The same could be asked about the appropriations of the European Investment Bank or Juncker Plan, with EUR 500 million each. The announced use of resources for risk capital financing and businessangels is not enough to boost SMEs in the amounts they lack. For this reason, the proposals submitted by the Left Block Parliamentary Group in this area are still justified and concern the urgency of adopting a credit policy that promotes the increase in the liquidity granted to Portuguese companies through the re-scheduling to the business fabric via the General Deposit Box, the remaining value in the fund of recapitalisation of the bank and the use of this fund to give priority to the financing of small and medium-sized Portuguese companies, thereby reversing the current trend towards the benefit of large companies. Finally, and no less relevant, it has been the invoice paid by the workers whenever the so-called 'internationalisation process' hits them at the door. The recent and tragic example of the closure of the Triumph textile company in Sacavem, and the inoperability that both IAPMEI and the Government themselves have shown to combat possible contours of economic practices that are not concerned about employment and workers' rights but, on the contrary, very concerned about the profits that the relocation of the factory will allow its shareholders, is the example of the internationalisation that this government and this majority have to combat. Growth and internationalisation of the economy cannot be against those who work. Work ties must be guaranteed and one cannot look at increasing the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, ignoring, in particular, the threats to work and forgetting the indignity that constitutes the explosive increase in job insecurity in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u26	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We hope that bringing it to debate in this Parliament the theme of the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy will be the recognition by the PS and consequently by the Government of the failure of economic policy which, at the beginning of this mandate, the Government said to implement, in which the growth of our economy would be based on domestic consumption and public investment. We hope that it will be the recognition that, in line with what has been the economic policy bets, it is vital for our growth, both present and future, to bet, increasingly strong, on the internationalization of our economy, with particular emphasis on the growth of exports, the increase in tourism revenues and the uptake of external investment. This false departure from the government, this wrong initial wager, in terms of economic policy, has cost us a year of economic growth. Today, given the good international situation, we could and should be growing better. Today, the government is trying to capitalize on merits in terms of economic growth, which knows that they are not exclusively theirs, but above all they are the result of past policies, and above all they are the result of the work and effort of our companies, in particular their workers and their entrepreneurs. It proves this late awakening to reality is that only two years after its takeover, that is, half of the legislature, is that the Government has approved the Internationalization Programme. It was only in December last year that this Government, with the approval of this Programme, validated a strategy for internationalisation. Because of ideological myopism, it's lost too much time, but it's worth more late than ever. In economic terms, this government has not been proactive, on the contrary, has been pro-passive, limiting itself to collecting the results of the favourable winds of the international environment, the dynamism of our entrepreneurs and the good performance of the tourism industry, which, if it is said to be true, is not an exclusive Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are living an external economic framework characterized by an increasing and accelerated pace of technological change, interdependence of economies, globalisation of markets and globalization of competition. The commitment to internationalisation of economies becomes inevitable, forcing public policies and all the business fabric to adopt competitive strategies in international terms. For Portugal, as a small economy which is, both with regard to its population size and with regard to its purchasing power, this need is even more central and decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u28	Mr President, I ask you to interrupt for 10 seconds so that I can ask your colleagues, Members of the various seats, to first of all not stand up and, secondly, not to be talking, because that prevents you from listening to the speech of the honourable Member. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very peculiar to being Portuguese, it is in the difficulties that we find the forces and convictions to grasp the opportunities. This was the case during the recovery period of our almost collective bankruptcy, in which the government and companies, with all their strength, all their knowledge, all the courage and capacity of their workers and their entrepreneurs, knew how to react and made a strong commitment to internationalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u31	It is never too much to remember, especially for the most forgotten, or for those who in any way have, or it gives them a way to have, selective memory, the huge bet that was made in economic diplomacy between the years 2011 and 2015 and that has been fundamental to this strategy of internationalization. But nothing better, so that we can do a rigorous analysis of the process of our internationalisation, than we will look at and we will look coldly at the numbers and economic indicators. It is through all the objectivity of these numbers that we may or may not confirm the economic miracle in which this government tries to make the Portuguese believe. We confirm the true fallacy: between 2011 and 2015, the trade balance shifted from a negative balance of EUR 6500 million to a positive balance of EUR 3000 million ; in 2017, the balance of our trade balance was positive at EUR 3500 million. That is, in the four years of the previous Parliament, in years of crisis, of financial difficulties, Portugal not only managed to reverse the sign of the balance of its commercial balance, as the size of this investment was EUR 10 billion. With this government, after almost three years of governance, recovery was only EUR 500 million. But if we do a little finer analysis of numbers, we find a worrying fact: since 2015 the negative commercial balance of goods has worsened by more than EUR 2600 million. We analyze the export coverage rate: between 2011 and 2015, this coverage rate increased from 90, 5 % to 104, 2 %. Indeed, between 2015 and 2017, this indicator increased from 104, 2 % to 104, 3 % « sensational ». Let us now examine the competitiveness of our economy: according to the World Economic Forum in 2011, Portugal was located in 45. the place, in the ranking of competitiveness between countries; in 2015 we had recovered seven places, and we were in 38. the place. Surprise or, perhaps, no, after two years of this governance, Portugal is located in 42. the place. Let's go down four places. in Europe 28, Portugal has only — and this 'only' is, of course — 17 countries in front of it in terms of competitiveness. And when economic agents are questioned about the obstacles to increasing this competitiveness, there are invariably three factors: bureaucracy, taxes and labour law. And what has the government done, or has it done, to overcome these obstacles? With regard to the fight against bureaucracy, the government has done what it knows best: advertising, much publicity, too much advertising, but without consistency and without adherence to reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u32	The bureaucracy continues to be present, very present, in the lives of all of us, families and businesses. The opposite can be said about taxes, the tax burden. Here, we recognize that the government has done a lot, even a lot. It made, above all, an increase in taxes, mainly indirect taxes, as never before, indirect taxes, these, which, as we know, are more silent, in terms of public perception, are the most unjust in social terms. The increase in indirect taxes has never, in any country, ever increased equality, on the contrary, always increases inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u34	And it does not cease to be curious, or possibly the fruit of the new times, that it is a set of left parties to carry out this increase in indirect taxes. But this increase in taxes, being silent — just as inflation was silent, during the financial bailouts in Portugal in the years 1977 and 1983 — does not stop penalizing Portuguese strongly. But other black clouds appear on the horizon threatening the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. Today, we have labour legislation that we can consider balanced. We have been able to go along a tortuous path to achieve that balance. If we want, if this is our goal, to capture, increase the volume of investment, national or foreign, it is essential to maintain a balance in this legislation. The instability in the conviction that this government can have on it, of course, will have very negative consequences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems, the difficulties are avoided, and this should be the attitude of the Portuguese Government. But here too we are already used to the fact that this principle does not apply in socialist governments. on the contrary, in the face of the problems, the rule is to « flee forward », regardless of this attitude causing its worsening. The philosophy is this: in the future, someone will solve these problems and someone will take the burden of solving them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u35	Mrs Jamila Madeira signed up to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u36	Mr President, we all know that Portugal's statement in the world has always been achieved when we assume that our home is outside our borders and we feel comfortable with it. That is the role of internationalization and that is the role that internationalisation should play for Portuguese companies and for the development and growth of the Portuguese economy. When we talk about the development and growth of our internationalisation, we talk about economic diplomacy, as Mr Foreign Minister has noted at different times. And export data are very clear. Thus, as you can see in this chart — today's voice does not help me and therefore I use the images, which are clearer — exports have increased significantly from 2015 to 2017, making Portugal the fourth country in the European Union where exports have grown more, not only in volume and value but also in quota. [[In the meantime, the speaker displayed a chart designed during the speech by PS Member Carlos Pereira on the real growth of exports of goods and services to the European Union in 2017.]] So here we have a comfort zone logic where Portugal must continue to invest — investing in its companies to have more strength, more security and more credibility in what they do out there, in its comfort zone, beyond borders. Therefore, in this context, tourism has a very important role, but it is not the only one. And as Portugal is a region of tourism, I would naturally like to stress that 18 % in 2017 is a number that makes us very proud and that we want to continue to strengthen. And to strengthen with endogenous resources, increasing the ability to incorporate as much as possible in this export a national return of this good, but also increasing the income generated by each tourist. What we know is that, in fact, numbers are very, very positive. It is therefore necessary to continue to invest in this process of internationalisation. Now, the government, and well, last year, after an auscultation/construction process with all business associations, presented the Internationalization Programme. Not only did he do it for decor, he did it after a very clear, very built and very solid construction process. Now, for the PSD, everything is read through the commercial balance. But, and if you do not know, I would like to explain, it is more difficult to maintain a balanced trade balance at the time of economic growth, because, unfortunately, in our economy at that time, it increases consumption and increases imported goods than in crisis situations. That is why it is not a good thing to say that they have kept their commercial balance in a situation that they consider to be more favourable. What happened was that there were fewer than 400 000 jobs, more poverty, less economic growth, more investment in companies. So everything is negative, contrary to what we want for national reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the PSD cannot be anything other than that we now have more employment, more economic growth and the higher GDP growth of this century, more exports, more leverage and more technology base in these exports. But we want to do more, we want to keep doing more. Therefore, the Internationalization Programme speaks well and speaks loudly. He doesn't speak everything yet, but he'll be there. And that's what we trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u37	You have the floor to answer Mr Virgílio Macedo from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u38	Mr President, very quickly, I would like to thank Mrs Jamila Madeira for the question she has put to me and to say that she is welcome to the virtuous path of economic diplomacy and the commitment to internationalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u39	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u40	That wasn't your way! [[PS MP Jamila Madeira protests.]] Your path was internal consumption and public investment,... [[PSD applause.]] ...it was not the bet on internationalization, it was not the bet on replacing imports by exports,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u41	It's your cop-flac!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u42	...it wasn't the bet on external investment capture. Therefore, Mrs. Member, although the reality has brought the Socialist Party to the Earth, it has led the Socialist Party to a path that all of us, Portuguese, will have to go so that in the future we can have an even greater growth than the current one, which, as you know, begins to weaken. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u43	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The guidelines for the internationalisation of the economy and the capture of foreign direct investment constitute a strategic axis in successive government programmes. And every government that is relaunching, renews, 'invents' new internationalisation programmes where willing public funds — national and Community — have been consumed and large losses of revenue for tax benefits have been recorded. Some of these processes of internationalization have turned out to be real economic and financial disasters, significant losses of public funds consumed, lost in absolute harm. Among other things, it is recalled the ruinous internationalization operation of the General Deposit Box in Spain, the result of which is now clearly evident in the difficulties of the public bank. On the other hand, much of the foreign capital that arrived in the country had nothing to do with investment projects of national utility, but with the pure and simple purchase of economic assets and with the dangerous domain of sectors and strategic areas for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u46	One of the problems of successive internationalisation programmes has been the refusal, the 'forgetting' or simply devaluation of the absolute need for a comprehensive and systematic evaluation of these past programmes and also the consequence of this evaluation in the design and development of new programmes, as the CFP has long claimed. There is therefore a debate to be held on these matters. What assessment did the Government make of the previous internationalisation programmes? What are the results of this assessment? What is the quantitative assessment of the public expenditure carried out in those programmes? What are the main successes and failures highlighted in this assessment? What fundamental changes has this Internationalisation Programme brought about in connection with the succession of programmes and initiatives we have witnessed over the years? What about the access of Portuguese companies to finance? What about the costs of export operations, from the point of view of export insurance? What about the famous collection of 'foreign direct investment' which really translated into creating wealth and not into financial or real estate applications? Or finally on the critical issue of the so-called 'national added value' in relation to the imported component of our exports? In all these matters, we agree, the country's balance sheet is a real disaster over the years and successive governments. But the central question is that, in a way, the Portuguese economy is already fully 'internationalised'! The largest and strategic companies in the country — banking, insurance, energy, communications and telecommunications, metal mechanics, etc. — they are all in the hands of foreign capital, with their centres of competence and decision-making outside the country, subject to the games and randomities of capital funds in search of the maximization of dividends for shareholders or investment funds that dominate them, subject to the willingness of value chains of multinationals, always in search of cheap labour and maximum public support. These are options, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are options that do not serve national interests! Capital has no homeland, but it is not, nor has it ever been, indifferent to whether or not Portuguese capital is the property of companies, and in particular those that are strategic. The most visible consequences can be guessed, for the future, from what has already happened to the largest Portuguese industrial company, Cimpor ( Cimentos de Portugal )! But let us consider what has also happened—or it is happening! — with PT ( Portugal Telecom ), with the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ), with ANA ( Airports de Portugal ), with the financial sector itself, which are examples of privatization, concessions, PPP ( public-private partnerships) that fall within the process of favouring major economic interests, with serious consequences for the country. The situation that is happening with EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), with an announced OPA ( public procurement offer) for its acquisition, raises a question of evidence: a company that is strategic for national interests, on which much of the Portuguese economy, such as the set of public equipment and functions, cannot be subject to the dispute over its shareholder control by economic groups or foreign States.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u48	What can and should be decisive for the future of EDP is the recovery of public control of the national electric company. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the central issue at issue is that of national sovereignty and independence. What the country needs is that its strategic companies, rather than being in the hands of American, German, French, Spanish or Chinese economic groups, are in the hands of the Portuguese state to serve the people, the economy, the development of the country. These proposals are advocated by the PCP and rejected with the convergence between PS, PSD and CDS, weakening the fight against lawlessness, not only in the energy sector, but in all sectors where privatizations were accompanying problems and suspicions that some have only now discovered, eclipsing the causes that are at its origin and shaking their own responsibilities in all this evolution and process. We reaffirm and remember: the PCP never let itself be taken by the serey corners of the privatizations. On the contrary, we assume a strong and continuous position of denunciation over the years, but also the fight against concrete proposals, not only to reverse and recover for the public sector the basic and strategic sectors of the national economy, as well as to counter the practices of submission and consolidation with economic groups, safeguarding above all the national interest—not the isolationism of our country, but the defence of sovereignty—at the same time that we must defend and support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the business fabric of our country, our industry, to have the exports and economic development that the country needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u49	Before I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to take account of the legislative initiatives that have now entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u50	Mr President, draft law No 878 / XIII was introduced into the Bureau ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 fixing a progressive decrease in the value of the tips paid by higher education students ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and draft resolution No 1614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of the process of retraining the planning plan of the Montesinho Natural Park to the special programme ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u51	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should first of all like to welcome the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the initiative to organize this debate on the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy. It is with all my pleasure that I participate in it on behalf of the Government. As you know, from our point of view this Government has made a fundamental change, which has been to institutionalize, under the protection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, public policy instruments aimed at promoting the internationalisation of our economy. And I would like to explain why we did it. We have done so because we understand that economic internationalisation acquires its full meaning in a more general framework of internationalization of different dimensions and resources of Portuguese society and institutions. That is why I have considered internationalisation as one of the fundamental objectives of Portuguese foreign policy, in the same way as European integration, the transatlantic alliance, the role and connection to Portuguese communities, the special link to the Lusophony and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and the link to multilateralism. Internationalisation is, and from my point of view, one of the six major designs of Portuguese foreign policy. That is why we must articulate what we do in the economic front with what we do on the other fronts of internationalization: in the international dissemination of Portuguese language, which is worth 17 % of our gross domestic product(GDP) ; in the international promotion of Portuguese culture; in the internationalization of our science system and our higher education system. On all these fronts, there is not only economic value—there is economic value in the language, there is economic value in culture, there is economic value in science and higher education, for example, remembering that more than 10 % of the students now attending Portuguese universities and polytechnics are foreign—and there is also help in our work in internationalizing our economy. I would like to say this, because I have often heard it from one of the most influential personalities in the positive sense of Portuguese public policies, who have always fought for the inclusion of internationalization in our public policies and who, if he were alive, would do exactly 70 years today—I am referring to Professor José Mariano Gago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard specifically to the internationalisation of the economy, we must be clear in our spirit what our fundamental objectives are. And our fundamental objectives are five, which I am referring to. Firstly, to increase our external trade — make it and maintain it as an external balance trade of positive goods and services for us, thus contributing to avoiding our external deficit — and to increase the weight of exports in our Product. That is a very clear first objective. A second objective is to support and promote Portuguese investment abroad. It is very important for internationalisation the capacity of our companies to compete in competitive environments investment opportunities, and that is what is happening on all continents. On all continents, Portuguese companies invest. The third objective is to capture foreign investment in Portugal, namely productive investment, which is not limited to buying at low prices of our strategic assets, but an investment that creates wealth here creates innovation and here creates jobs. The fourth objective is to support Portuguese companies, those exporting, those investing in the international value chain. The value chain today is global and this trend must be maintained — indeed, well documented by Mr Carlos Pereira — of gradual rise of companies, whether from the point of view of technological incorporation, or from the point of view of the segments that occupy the international market. Finally, a fifth objective, which systematizes and reaches the previous ones, which is to improve the standard of specialization of the Portuguese economy. That is to make our factors of international competitiveness, not in low wages, but in innovation, in qualification, in management and in resources. This is, in fact, the main difference in the policy of internationalization of the current government vis-à-vis the policy of internationalization of the former Government. A policy of internationalization which erroneously thought or assumed that it was possible to establish the competitive factors of the Portuguese economy at low wages, this policy of internationalization does not serve us because it causes our production specialization to be lowered and not increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another key element that we must take into account, and on which we must be fully clear, is that of the instruments available in public policies to support the economic internationalisation of the country. These instruments are essentially four: firstly, bilateral or multilateral political agreements that promote trade and investment; secondly, the Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ( AICEP) and its external network; thirdly, economic diplomacy, that is, the mobilization of our entire network of embassies and consulates to support companies, Portuguese frameworks abroad; and fourthly, but not least importantly — it is one of the most important instruments — the full use of our diaspora networks, of our communities abroad, which, in themselves, represent a market, but also represent gateways to the markets of the host companies in which they are inserted, and, within the diaspora network, it is necessary to pay close attention to the network of qualified professionals and Portuguese frameworks, which are present in virtually all the relevant economies of the world. The Internationalisation Programme seeks to give expression and framework to the conjugation of all these instruments. The current government's economic policy is based on two very simple but essential principles. First, the principle according to which it is necessary, is possible and is productive the combination between the stimulus of internal demand and the stimulus of external demand. This is not to counter two of those which are essential, harmonised instruments between themselves of economic policy, and therefore, at the same time as, by reintroduction of income, by lowering taxes on workers and businesses, by dynamising the market and by institutional normalisation, we have created conditions for the Portuguese internal market to progress and domestic demand to increase, we have continued and improved the work of supporting foreign investment capture, the promotion of Portuguese investment abroad and, above all, the promotion of Portuguese exports. This is an essential first principle: combining internal search and external search. The second principle, no less essential, is to combine a policy of strictness and consolidation in financial and budgetary matters, on the one hand, and on the other, an economic and social policy which favours people, favours families, favours workers and favours businesses. The results show the fairness and scope of these two principles: with economic growth, we better consolidate our public finances and, with the harmonisation of external demand and internal demand, we give full impetus to the drivers of the growth of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The results relating to the year 2017, which we already have, show that this policy can have positive results : in 2017, gross domestic product increased significantly, the commercial balance of goods and services continued positive, the investment accelerated more than 8 % compared to 2016, exports for the first time broke the barrier of 43 % of national wealth and, above all, all this was done in order to increase employment and drastically reduce unemployment. So our efforts and our obligation today are to transform this good moment of the Portuguese economy into a continuous process, so that it is not just a moment, but a structural one. from this point of view, the contribution of foreign trade and Portuguese investment abroad and foreign investment in Portugal seems to me capital. This is what the Internationalisation Programme seeks to do with its six key axes: firstly, to improve our knowledge and our information on markets, because it is only possible to diversify markets if we have the ability to collect, in time, essential information on these markets; secondly, it is to promote the qualification of human resources and our territory, because that qualification depends on our capacity for internationalisation; thirdly, it is to improve the financial support instruments for exporting companies and investors abroad; fourthly, it is to support foreign direct investment, in particular that which brings wealth, innovation and technology, either through tax-benefit policies or through the careful use of the Community funds available; fifthly, it is to develop the image and brand of Portugal, and here again, the combination of the different fronts of internationalisation is absolutely necessary; and finally, it is to reduce the costs of the context and seek to obtain the advantages of the agreements, by example, the trade. That is why I would like once again to welcome the opportunity of this debate and to invite the whole House, all parliamentary groups, to be interested in the activities, initiatives, and to accompany them, including those of AICEP and the two who are currently in progress and who seem very promising in their novelty and their dynamism: one, is the Internationalisation Academy, which was launched last month and which is an instrument of support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the training of their managers and frameworks in competitive international environment, and the second initiative is to be launched in Porto next Monday under the motto "Export Online", and which aims to support our companies, notably exporters, in full use of this essential instrument today on the global scale, which are the platforms for trade and electronic services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u53	Minister Augusto Santos Silva, the Bureau records the inscriptions of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u54	Mr President, I will respond first to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen and, then, to three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u55	Let us begin with the request for clarification from Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to respond positively to the challenge he has made, because we now need to talk about specific policies after the virtual reality with which the PS has opened this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u58	You're distracted, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u59	They said that the growth of the economy was based on exports, but the only certainty, the only given objective we have today, conferred by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE), is that we are facing the greatest tax burden since there is registration. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u60	This is a fact and, therefore, what they said was tax reduction and wager in economic growth through exports was a real achievement. And if that is not true, I would like Mr Minister to explain to us why in the Stability Programme the macroeconomic forecasts for exports in 2018 are 6, 3 %, in 2019 4, 8 % and 2021 and 2022 4, 2 % — i.e. cooling and export breakdown. But we can, in particular, go to the policy of the Capitalisation Programme and the 56 measures of the Internationalisation Programme, which Mr Minister so exhaustively presented, those which he said were direct to businesses, business support, financing to businesses, and asked him specific questions. One question relates to short-term export credit insurance, which exists only for OECD markets ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). The government has promised and has worked towards nullifying this situation, which I consider even a factor of unfair competition, and extending to markets outside the OECD — from then on, Mexico, for example, a country where market share grows. When will we have credit insurance for exporting companies also in this regard? I can also ask you another specific question about another government promise: opening up the markets for rice and pork to China. SMEs and agro-industry are in several support measures. Mr. Minister promises, the government says it will, but we have reached concrete and so far nothing. In order not to think that it is the CDS which only sees difficulties, I would like to quote what the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) said in a very simple way on «(...) the 200M Fund, intended to support capital and quasi-capital investment operations in small and medium-sized enterprises, under co-investment arrangements with private individuals. The fund was announced in November 2016, on the occasion of the first Summit Web in Portugal. It was approved in August 2017. The legislation that created it was published in October. Already this year it was known that SME Investments would be its managing entity. at the beginning of April it was announced that by the end of that month it would enter into operation. The fact is that 18 months have passed since it was announced and has not, in fact, reached any company. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, I could take the various measures, but I conclude by telling you that, of the 56 measures, I already know that this one is not on the ground. Tell me a measure, of the 56, that it is already, eventually implemented and on the ground. If I can mention one, I may deserve some credit and some hope this huge package of measures that support companies, but it seems to be nothing more than advertising and propaganda. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u61	Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u62	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to highlight in your speech three notes which we consider very important. First of all, I refer to the success of this new solution for the organisation of the protection of the internationalisation of the economy within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The results, contrary to what has been stated by the PSD and CDS Members, speak for themselves about the increase we have today in the percentage of exports of Portuguese companies, both in relation to foreign investment in Portugal, and in relation to the external investment of Portuguese companies. On the other hand, I would also like to note that this link between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has actually managed to create a virtuous triangle in which, at the moment, internationalization is being worked together with two fundamental pillars, that of innovation and that of the Capitalisation Programme, which has enabled Portuguese companies to succeed in responding to the challenge of internationalization. Therefore, there is today in Portugal, contrary to what the PSD and CDS banks have referred to, a combination of efforts between the government and the investment policies of national companies with the positive results we have witnessed. The third note that I would like to leave concerns the role that this Government has given to the performance of the State's economic diplomacy. Without complexities, this Government has affirmed the role of the State not only as an agent acting as a partner of Portuguese companies, in order to dynamize the internationalization activities of the national economy, but also as a negotiating actor, in particular within the framework of international trade agreements, in the framework of the development of a set of initiatives, with the presence of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who aims to affirm the role of Portugal in the international economic context. I would also like to leave a note to highlight the role played within the communities, in particular in order to enhance the interventions of the honorary consuls and the network of national partners and companies in the Portuguese communities and which have also been used as an important channel from the point of view of the dynamisation of domestic companies' exports. in this framework, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, the question I put to you is to know what balance he is currently taking from the main economic diplomacy actions of the various members of the Government, notably the Prime Minister, and also within the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and what are the basic prospects and priorities for the Government in this regard, in order to consolidate the excellent results it has achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u63	Mr Foreign Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u64	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Hélder Amaral and Ricardo Bexiga. I begin with Mr Hélder Amaral, who used the word 'achievance' to describe the evolution of Portuguese exports. You're making a sign that they're coming down, but I have good news to give you: they're coming up. Even in this quarter, they rose by 3 % compared to the 2017 homologous quarter. You must not confuse the second derivative with...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u65	They're coming up too low!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u66	Mr. Hélder Amaral, it is very different the weight of exports in the Product to grow when the Product falls or is anemic, which was what happened in the time of its government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and the weight of exports in the Product grow when the Product grows. That is why the result of 2017 — not a result of the government, is a result of the companies — is remarkable because exports broke the barrier of 43 % of the Product when the Product rose by 2, 7 %. So this is not an achievement. If you were worried, you could care about my responsibility. [[PS Member Hortense Martins' laughs.]] He also saw an increase in taxes where they did not exist; on the contrary, he lowered VAT and VAT revenue increased. Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u67	Tax charge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u68	Because with the increase in economic activity, tax, which is VAT, has its revenue increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u69	Don't bother. They don't understand, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u70	That is why the weight of taxes and social contributions in the Product has increased. And why did it increase? Because the economy has grown. With regard to the question on credit insurance, precisely because we are working on it and soon Mr will have news, because within the time limit set in the Internationalisation Programme there will be results on several instruments of financial support for companies and aid to companies for risk coverage, namely exchange risk or political risk, which is what is put outside the OECD, as you know. Then, he goes from the Internationalisation Programme to the Capitalisation Programme - there is no problem in doing so - I follow him - they are two convergence programmes - and he challenges me very much: he asked me for a measure of the Internationalisation Programme, one, which was already complete. Mr President, if you would like to look at the D-axis, measure D.10, which was committed to revising the legislation on chambers of commerce so that chambers of commerce abroad could benefit from the support instruments resulting from the declaration of public utility, I would reply that this measure is approved, the decree is published and the honourable Member can consult you wherever you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u71	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u72	In relation to another measure of the pleasure of the old CDS, which I believe is the current CDS, which was the promotion of agriculture and the agri-food area, I would say that the promotion network of Portuguese products is already constituted. at this time, over 100 Portuguese restaurants worldwide are part of this network and I am sure that Mr. Deputies is the first to value such measures. I am also grateful for the questions put by Mr Ricardo Bexiga. I start with the most practical issue and then I go to the most systemic issue. from the point of view of economic diplomacy, what are our essential objectives? They are also very clear in this area. In 2016, we worked mainly on developing our opportunities in the Chinese market. That is why it was so important that the Prime Minister's official visit to China and all the work that was possible to develop from it, in particular by opening up the Chinese market to several of our products. In 2017, it was also about opening this other gigantic market from a demographic and economic point of view, which is India, and also there the Prime Minister's visit was absolutely instrumental. this year, the Prime Minister went to Canada. Portugal was the eighth country to ratify the ECTA Agreement (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) and it was very important that we were from the first countries to take advantage of the enormous possibilities opened by this Agreement and that we were invited, a country that is the subject of the Guadalajara book fair, allows, once again combining the different fronts of internationalization, also to have very important gains in the Mexican market. So we are also planning to visit the Prime Minister on that occasion. I did not want to end by saying that it also seems to us that markets as important to Portugal as Mozambique and Angola need a new look and a new impulse and we are also taking advantage of the fact that the Prime Minister has to make trips to these countries to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u73	It is the time of Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, to ask for clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u74	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask you two very specific questions. The first is on the Internationalisation Programme and the implementation of its measures, from the point of view of funding support. with regard to the Government, the Ministry and the AICEP ( Investment and Foreign Trade Agency of Portugal ), what means and resources are available under their budget headings for the implementation of these initiatives? There are lines of action which, in themselves, do not cost money necessarily — and the Minister has now set an example of the amendment of the legislation on Chambers of Commerce, this must not have cost a lot of money — but there are also measures that involve projects and sources of financing, and that is what we are now questioning from the budgetary point of view. On the other hand, there is the question of concrete solutions which are pointed out to achieve the objectives proclaimed and which will, at the outset, deserve consensus. Two specific examples, which I also referred to in the intervention: the question of national added value, said in this way, the problem of the imported component of our exports and the measures necessary to address this problem and — in the speech, the Minister also noted — the foreign direct investment effectively focused on the creation of wealth and not on financial or real estate applications. The government has set these objectives which we have been stressing over the years. The problem is what to do, what concrete action to achieve these objectives. That's what we'd like to hear. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u75	For clarifications, Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u76	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I was still curious and prepared to greet and question the Minister for Economic Affairs. in fact, I think that in a debate on internationalisation of the economy and since we did not have the opportunity or opportunity to have Mr Minister here in the other two debates we had in the last few weeks, I thought it was today that we would finally hear the Minister of Economy. Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs did not come, which could mean only one of two things: either the Minister for Economics does not count for the economic policy of this government or the economy does not even count for this government. In any case, whatever the answer, we agree that none of these alternatives is the best way to deal with the problems of the country and, above all, to deal with the problems of Portuguese businesses and entrepreneurs, those who since 2011 have pursued a path of great effort, of great work to re-enter this country on the brink of the abyss, due to a government to which you, Mr. Ex. Minister, belonged and which, often, both Mr. Minister and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party forget that. Well, I know that maybe that's the old PS, but allow me now to tap, that old PS won't be much different than the new PS. Or is it, Minister? You have been in this government and you are in the current government and, therefore, of course, this government has an obligation not to lose memory of how the country has left and to think about what it is important to do to recover and solve the country's problems. [[PS protests.]] Mr Minister, the slowdown of the economy is one of the factual, concrete data that appeared to us in the last statistical data we had access to. Much of this slowdown is associated with those markets in which, as the Socialist Party Member has already said, only 25% of them are markets outside the European Union and these markets are the main slowdown factor of the economy. In other words, the contribution they made in the past was positive, but at the moment they are a problem for the Portuguese economy. My first question is very simple, Minister: what is the government planning to do to somehow recover this land and help companies to conquer these markets? A second question has to do with Brexit. The Social Democratic Party has already proposed, in this House and, above all, in the Commission, that a study should be carried out, such as what happened in Spain, whose government has not only carried out this study as it has launched several initiatives to be able to carry out and, in some way, to help and accommodate that impact. Question: What is the government doing? What will the government do? What can Portuguese companies and entrepreneurs count on in this matter? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u77	Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister Santos Silva, the Minister spoke about the generic plan of five major objectives for internationalisation. The Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal wanted to go down further to the concrete plan of the Earth and talk about the situation of a very concrete company, Efacec, in Porto, which fits that not a glove in this so-called "plan of internationalization" not only because it exports, but also because it was acquired by international capital. This company has a behaviour that we consider shameful because, after announcing here, in the Assembly of the Republic, at parliamentary hearing, that it would hire 700 workers, that there would be no redundancies in Efacec, after returning to profits, after receiving more than 10 million euros in public support, it maintains a process of restructuring the company, with the convivence of the government because it enacts, accepts, prolongs and renews the restructuring plans of the company, with the sole aim of redundancies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u80	He fired 21 and now there are again workers concerned with a broader objective, to fire about 409 workers, either by means of the so-called 'friendly' terminations, or by a collective dismissal, which began. Therefore, there is an ongoing process of replacing workers with rights by workers with precarious links and with fewer rights and less wages. Mr President, on a recent trip to this company, he said that he is, and I quote, "a good example of what the Portuguese industry is today." I repeat, Mr Minister, « a good example of what the Portuguese industry is today ». We do not want to believe that this statement has had due weight on the part of the Government, because this is an example of what should not be done, i.e. a profit-making company, which receives Community and national support and which then uses the restructuring process to fire workers, this very important company in the district of Porto. The question we wanted to leave, Minister, is the following: in the five strategic objectives for internationalisation, where are the rights of workers? Where are the rights of workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u82	Where are the rights of these concrete Efacec workers, which are the target of a process of internationalisation of the economy leading to their dismissal? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u83	In reply, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u84	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. Starting with Mr Bruno Dias, first of all I would like to stress, appreciate and thank the expression of support which he gave to the Internationalisation Programme on behalf of his parliamentary group. It stressed, and well, the broad consensus that the objectives and instruments of this Programme deserve and that is very important for us, because the more political consensus there is around this Programme, the more efficient it will be. He then asked me two questions, one which basically has to do with liquid exports. Of course, our objective is that the trade balance is positive, that is, that we export more than we import, but I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that imports are growing does not necessarily mean bad. Why? Because the bulk of imports has to do with the equipment that companies need, now that they are making more investments. As regards the incorporation of higher value and therefore the fact that the exporting companies incorporate more, they add more value in relation to raw materials or intermediate goods that matter, because that is what is happening, especially in different industrial clusters that are very important to us, such as agri-food, cork, textile, aeronautics or automobile. With regard to foreign investment, I would also like to accompany you, Ex.a, if you gave me a license, since we are communicating with the same objective, which is to attract productive and productive investment in the modern sense, i.e. investment that creates wealth, whether in goods or in services. That is why we have been very fondly supported, if I may say so, the foreign industrial base investment which is felt, for example, in our automotive sector, in the component sector, in the aeronautical sector, which will allow building national clusters in these sectors. We have also been very supportive of investments by large international companies, especially Europeans, who are looking for their bases here for services centres or centres of technological expertise that serve the total of their groups. Turning to Mr. Jorge Machado, I would like to say that, of course, the specific issues relating to Efacec should be put to their administration, because if the administration told Parliament something and did the opposite, it should be questioned. What I can say on behalf of the Government is that the contractual conditions under which the government or any other company receives public support have to be met under the penalty of such support being withdrawn. As for the rights of workers, he asks the honourable Member, and very well, where are they all on the axes, and I answer: on all the axes. When we promote direct productive investment in Portugal we are creating jobs, when we encourage our exports we are creating jobs, when we qualify human resources we are increasing the quality of employment and income, and out there. One thing may be Mr Santer: the time when he thought he was cutting incomes and lowering wages that the country could make progress and claim internationally is over, and while we and the majority of parliament that supports this government we are committed to that end of not returning. I think we agree that it is very important that this past does not return. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Leite Ramos expressed his disappointment at meeting me here on this bench. I get it, I accept. It presents two hypotheses, but it has failed in my modest opinion the most obvious hypothesis: it is that the minister responsible for economic internationalisation is here, since the debate is on economic internationalization. Nothing else, nothing less. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to ask the honourable Member whether I still remember the government — and I quote 'where I belong'. that I don't remember, but I remember all the governments I've belonged to so far, you may be the sure Member of that. On the slowdown of the economy, Mr Deputy said in this curious detail: in the first quarter of 2018 the Portuguese domestic product will have grown 2, 1 %, according to the INE's rapid estimate — let's see what the final result is. The honourable Member complains that it is not enough. So how would Mr. Member qualify for the country's economic growth in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u85	You're comparing the incomparable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u86	In 2009 and 2010 it was very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u87	If this is little, how was it then? Therefore, the Portuguese economy is growing and, being very competent, attentive and interested in your country's progress, you must rejoice. And, don't worry, it's not government, it's not governments that make the economy grow. What governments can do is stop the growth of the economy when they make tax burden, when they cut income, when they take measures that are unconstitutional, when they create crises of trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Governments can help the growth of the economy when they lower the tax puncture, when they return income,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u88	When they increase gasoline!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u89	... when they raise the minimum wage, when they raise social support, when they allow the creation of employment, making social security stronger and making more widespread the opportunity of people to realize this basic right, which is the right to work and paid employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u90	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u91	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The first reference I wanted to make in this debate concerns the time and the moment we are doing so. The Socialist Party has chosen today to discuss the internationalization of the Portuguese economy, which is exactly the date on which we know the economic data of the first quarter of 2018. Now, the Portuguese economy cooled in the first quarter, it is slowing down and rising again less than the average of other European countries, as had already happened in 2016. Worse, we have grown far less than some of our more direct competitors, particularly the East, such as Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, even than countries such as Cyprus, Finland and the Netherlands. And we have grown much less, much less than our neighbor Spain, which is our main trading partner, which has grown, in this period, almost twice as much as we have grown. When we realize what this cooling is due to, the issue is even worse. According to the data of the National Institute of Statistics (I quote), «the main explanation for slowing down the pace of economic activity is the most negative contribution of net foreign demand, i.e. of exports deducted from imports. The INE notes that in the first quarter, both in terms of counterparts and in terms of chains, exports increased less." For this reason, the first word we want to leave is thanks to the Socialist Party for the timing of this agenda, because, in fact, the cooling of our economy is due, in this sense, to the reduction of exports, and the debate could not be more current. Let us then have this debate. The second reference I wanted to make is exactly the economic growth model of this Socialist Party Government, but also of the parties that followed it and chose the consumption, the internal demand as the engine of growth. in the scenario of the wise for the decade, in the economic roles of the backward left, was consumption, both public and private consumption, which would be the catalyst of growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u93	We are those who have always said that the bet on domestic demand, by itself, forgetting investment, forgetting exports, is wrong from the point of view of a solid, sustained, firm and consistent growth, which was certainly what we should all want. But this option for consumption, more ideological than pragmatic, has led the Government to postpone support for the internationalisation of the economy, support for businesses, support for entrepreneurs, which, in recent years, often heroically, have managed to win shares in new markets for Portuguese products and services and have helped and greatly to grow our economy. in an economy as small and open as ours, increasing domestic demand to grow the economy is an archaism and, above all, an archaism of those who learned little with the mistakes of the past, the mistakes that led us exactly to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u95	The government, in order to please its left-wings, focused on consumption and took another year to correct this orientation. In politics, strategic orientation mistakes are expensive and this mistake has led us to a growth that, unfortunately, brings us closer to the tail of Europe and not to the richest and prosperous countries. Perhaps this explains the fact that the Government has approved, one year and eleven months after it has been announced, but more than two years after we have established government, a programme — the Internationalisation Programme — which is a cascade of 56 measures, many of them so generic that we doubt that they can ever be implemented. Five months after your approval, we must now make an assessment: how many of these measures have been implemented?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u96	It's been answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u97	in the last assessment by the Government itself, of the 56 proposed measures had not yet been completed a single measure. Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs tells us here that, two and a half years after we have government, they have approved the new legal status of the Chambers of Commerce. This, Mr Minister, in a language which, of course, any socialist understands, is very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u99	Worse, when we realize that these measures are about to be implemented, we are always criticized. That is why I would ask you to look into what the President of the CIP (Commercial Confederation of Portugal), Antonio Saraiva, a social partner, wrote about measures of the Internationalisation Programme, and to quote: « The 200M fund, of 200 million, intended to support SME operations, was announced in November 2016 on the first Summit Web, was approved in August 2017, in October the legislation that created it, already this year it was known that it would be SMEs Investments to its managing entity, at the beginning of April it was announced that by the end of the month it would enter into operation, the truth is that 18 months have passed since it was announced and has not, in fact, arrived at any company ». If we look at the measures of the Internationalisation Programme, we realize that many of them have been announced, some have been announced twice, some have even been announced three and four times, but the truth is that there is not a penny, there is not a euro for SMEs, and that is the most important thing. We also realize that, once again, there is a mistake about the model of economic growth that this Government is proposing. The truth is that the industrial-based external investment, which is very important to ensure the growth of the economy in the future, according to Banco de Portugal data, fell from 2015 to 2017 more than EUR 2000 million. This is no different from the fact that we now have the highest tax burden of ever, which is the weight of taxes divided by the country's wealth, and curiously, from the moment you removed the measure of decline from the IRC, direct investment from the foreign industrial base caught in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u100	He didn't get anything! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u101	Such measures as these were certainly very important for us from the point of view of the reindustrialisation of Portugal, many measures. Looking at the data of our economy, we see that national productivity is falling back, a point has fallen between 2015 and 2016, the credit that goes up is not the credit to companies, it is the credit to consumption, which accentuates the problem of the indebtedness of families and, in this sense, our note in this debate is of concern, not the euphoria with which the government comes here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u103	Mr Minister, one of your colleagues from an Eng.o Socrates government, the then Minister of Economics—I don't know whether it was the old PS or the new PS, I thought it was the same, the Minister is that he has some questions with the old and the new — that he was only right when he corrected. I would like to tell you, Minister, that you have managed to change the bottle: Mr. Minister is wrong because he doesn't even understand where the target is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u104	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fundamental contradiction that marks the global world is that never before in the history of humanity has produced as much wealth as today, being most concentrated in the hands of 1% of the world's population. Moreover, this 1% of the population at the top of the social pyramid is appropriated by 50% of the wealth produced, while the poorest 75% divide only 3% of that value. The use of artificial intelligence and robotization under the domain of great capital is a form of privatization of human intelligence and its creative capacity, smoothing the workers of routine, dangerous or painful tasks, so that they can devote themselves to more creative processes and full realization. however, this possibility is distant from the logic of reducing labour costs and increasing job precariousness and maximizing profit. to the promulgated Industry 4.0 programme, pointed out by this government as a lever for the process of internationalization, we propose another programme, work 4.0. What will work 4.0 be? First, some leads. Where did we leave? According to INE, Portugal was one of the countries where the weight of wages in the economy decreased from 60 % of the total national income in 2003 to 52 % in 2014. Young people from 25 to 34 years old, usually referred to as the most qualified generation ever, have lost 4, 6 % of their actual average monthly income, up-to-date at 2007 prices, which means that they went from 794 € to the current 757 €. If we stopped at the licensees in 2008, the average net salary was €1504 and today they take less 17, 7%. Precautionary is the contractual mark of the present day where Portugal is one of the European recorders. We can conclude that precariousness marks the employment contracts signed with low wages and with minimum remuneration approaching the average monthly remuneration. Where should we go? If it is true that the economy shows positive signs in view of the recovery of incomes that have stimulated and stimulated domestic demand, it is no less true that the distribution of incomes remains very uneven, because wages remain very low and based on great precariousness and high turnover of contracts. It is increasingly visible that there is no fair distribution of wealth nor the appreciation due to work with rights. It is therefore necessary to amend the Labour Code on fundamental points, such as to approve in the short term the 35 hours per week in order to move all of us to reduce the working time to 30 hours per week and to introduce four daily shifts in activities requiring it, without the reduction of wages for all with rights. Second, end of the individual and group hour bank. Third, the fight against all forms of precariousness. Fourthly, the recognition of the most favourable treatment and the elimination of the expiry of collective labour agreements. Only the reversal of the labour law of PSD / CDS and troika can put us on the path to progress and the recovery of purchasing power lost by workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u106	Mr Paulo Neves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about economics and internationalization is to talk about tourism, to talk about foreign investment in Portugal, to talk about Portuguese investment abroad, to talk about financing to Portuguese companies, to talk about multilateral banking, to talk about the Portuguese diplomatic network and the AICEP network (Agence for Foreign Investment and Trade in Portugal ), and also to talk about diversification of markets particularly among emerging economies. All this is economic and all this is part of the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy! The former government, the PSD with the CDS-PP, did a remarkable work in internationalising the Portuguese economy. We increased from 29 % of GDP to 42 % of GDP in Portuguese exports. We have diversified markets and quickly adapted companies to the demands of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u108	I should have a class on ratios!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u109	Also in tourism, the Government was then able to prepare Portugal for the opportunities for the enormous growth of European but also global tourism. If there are doubts, then the numbers of the last years of tourism in Portugal, which are also, and of course, the consequence of past policies. But, in fact, those who should be clearly praised in this matter are those who invest in tourism, they are those who work in tourism and they are those who manage tourism and innovate it. The current government is unfortunately not complying with some minimum obligations in some matters related to the tourism economy, from the very beginning, with regard to the largest airport in the country. What is attended so often at the Humberto Delgado airport in Lisbon is absolutely unacceptable: seeing tourists have to wait more than two hours to pass through foreign services and borders is not their own. The government, which has been constantly alerted by the PSD on this issue, has not been able to solve the problem. The problem keeps getting worse or even worse with the passing of time. It is pure incompetence of the government to resolve a question that causes enormous inconvenience to those who visit us, especially many who arrive in Lisbon after many hours of flight. The solution to the enormous constraints of the Lisbon airport with regard to air traffic management is also slow to arrive. In the meantime, Portugal will lose millions of tourists who do not have a way to reach Lisbon because the capital airport cannot accept all requests from airlines who want to fly to the city. This is a serious problem that this government has not been able to solve! at best, it will only be implemented at the end of 2022, but until then millions of tourists and tens of millions of euros will be lost in revenue. Even on this issue of flights, we must not fail to refer to the attitude of the Government in recent cancellations and constant delays of hundreds of flights operated by the TAP — that is also economic. The national airline whose privatisation the government wanted to revert to — and I quote — « send to the company» but which, at hour H, when we, PSD, asked it, on behalf of thousands of Portuguese and tourists, solutions to the chaos that thousands of Portuguese and tourists lived, it shook to the side saying that it had nothing to do with the issue of the airline. He left the Portuguese and tourists at a time when it was expected that a solution would come from whom he wanted to send to the company but that, when it was necessary to send, he preferred to turn his back on his responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]] This case, minimized by the government, is not so little. It also represents a way of governing this government, it represents an attitude of the government : where there are problems, the current government disappears and refuses to assume its responsibilities and to present quick and efficient solutions, as it would be expected. It is a government that, in this case too, lives in the contexts: if they are good contexts, cover up what is wrong and try to take advantage of the wave. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is impossible to internationalize the Portuguese economy well if this enormous austerity is maintained in the ministries, as is the case with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u110	Austerity is very visible when there is no rapid agility in the diplomatic representation network and the AICEP network. These two networks must adapt to opportunities! They must be where opportunities are for Portugal and Portuguese companies. in our opinion, the diplomatic networks and AICEP are not fully adapted to the reality of international trade, especially among emerging markets. By 2015, emerging markets already represented 35% of world GDP, by 2020 they will represent 50% and by 2030 60%. Since the beginning of the century, 80% of international trade has taken place in the emerging market and within 20 years seven of the world's largest economies will be emerging countries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need a strategy, a national strategy for foreign investment and Portuguese investment abroad. Only when this government has a real clear and well-defined geo-economic strategy is that the results will be solid and golden. Even there, he just takes advantage of the environment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that, in fact, there are many differences between this government and the previous one, which are obvious differences. The first is that the right didn't like strategic plans, it didn't have a single strategic plan. And just see, Mr Minister, I didn't have a strategic plan for tourism because Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism from then on said that the best was to have no plans, the best was to have no public policies and that everything would walk alone to the good news of leter fare, let go. Now, we also have the PSD saying that there is no program or that the program has to be done. Perhaps they have forgotten to read it, but today's programme and debate is on the Internationalisation Programme. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extensive, it can really take some time to come into practice, but it is being put into practice. Mr Minister, we welcome the Government, as Mr Minister, for the implementation of the many measures which have produced many results in favour of companies and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to highlight two measures which the Minister here referred to and which no one understood, or which no one wanted to understand. I mention the Internationalisation Academy, for support to SMEs and for the training of managers - we know that there is a problem in our SMEs at this point - and the Online Export Programme, which is critical today, because we all know that for any company, whether micro or SMEs, the issue of electronic commerce is absolutely fundamental. So once again, the government responds effectively and in a timely manner to something of our present and that companies lack. There is also a great difference that we must also welcome: in fact, it was mentioned here that the promotion of internationalisation as the substitution of imports was as important. The left said this and we agree, from that point on, that we have, since the first hour, encouraged domestic demand, while we stimulated external demand, while the right has always despised domestic demand, killing and impoverishing our economy, reducing GDP and now making a profit of the large percentage of the export/GDP ratio when it knows that GDP was reduced by the impoverishment of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I would like to stress that, in fact, even in tourism there are many differences, because today it represents 18 % of exports and 50 % of services. But our economy is not just that, it is also promoting. We know that exports have machines and appliances and also promote other areas, such as agri-food, which Mr. Minister mentioned here. And we know that, even with the support of the autoarchs, small and medium-sized enterprises are going to one of the most important trade fairs in the agri-food sector, which is the Berlin Fair. This is just one example of what is being done with the support of the authorities, the government, our civil society, a different political strategy that has to be continued. This process must be continued. We trust, and the Portuguese also trust, that we are on the right path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u113	Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has already used us, Mr Minister in particular, to - I am convinced that your sense of humor fits well with what I will tell you - with a cod fin, to make a big feast. In fact, the Minister has this propaganda experience that is already behind him and therefore none of this surprises us. But the truth is that this government is governed by the logic of the little boy. That's how he got there and that's how he rules. In economic terms, growth is always the tow of the one who is external growth and is never above the average of the European Union, even in what the forecasts are - I am talking about the annual vision. [[You're talking about what you don't know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u115	Even in the forecasts, the Minister and the Government expect a growth of 2, 3 % and are already thinking about a downward review. And why does this little logic govern this government? Because this government only does what it is obliged to do. This government does nothing more than what it is obliged to do! It's not for conviction, it's not for strategic plan, it's not because it believes, it's because it's thanks. If you are obliged, for external reasons, by Brussels, to lower the deficit, lower the deficit! If you are obliged, for external reasons, by Brussels, to lower your debt, reduce your debt! But it is not only in the economy, it is also in politics, everything in politics. Do we hear them so calmly, so peacefully, and are you not able to copy us at least? [[PSD applause.]] I was saying that this government only does what it is obliged to do for external reasons. Lowers the deficit and lowers the debt for external reasons. But it only does it because it is bound by internal reasons, for election reasons, because it could affect the vote. After a few years of silence and other things, great personalities of the Socialist Party and of this government have now emerged to demarcate themselves from the Government of the Eng. Socrates. They demarcated themselves of the style, demarcated themselves from the behaviors, demarcated themselves from the practices. Why do they do it? For external reasons? They do it again, not because they are convinced, not because they believe, but because they are obliged. They do so, essentially, by calculus. [[PS protests.]] You know, Mr Minister, when we talk about internationalization, we talk about economics and, when we talk about economics, we have to talk about competitive models. Mr President, do you think that you have a competitive model in the economy with this tax burden that has been thrown over Portuguese and business? Mr President, do you think that small and medium-sized enterprises are holding up these increases that they have made in fuel? If the Minister makes a visit to the raison d'oeuvres, it will be the perception of the price of fuel, a fundamental cost for companies. They have made a steady rise in the price of fuel, in addition to creating a tax that would be to withdraw in the first budget but which remains in force, so they continue to add, add up, add up. Moreover, they do not make administrative and state reform so as to make the Public Administration more competitive. But these are just examples. Although Portugal has an excellent index for researchers per capita, researchers are all, or almost all, in schools and in public enterprises, they are not in private companies, and you have done nothing about it. But these are just a few examples of what you do by obligation, by calculus and never by conviction or by plan. Stranger is when we have at least two economic ministers: Minister A, Dr. Caldeira Cabral, and Minister B, who is the Deputy Minister, Dr. Siza Vieira. With two economic ministers, I should give us something that was not so small. But do you know why, even with two economic ministers — Minister A and Minister B — we continue to grow little and we continue without ambition? Because we do not have an economic policy, because we have no ambition, because this government has no courage and has to please those who sometimes want and those who do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u117	This government does not have a plan for the economy, to help the Portuguese economy and entrepreneurs to assert Portugal as a global economic power and for that outside world. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u118	Mr Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, starting with humor and metaphors, agreeing with you, I would like to say that a cod bartana still makes a good cod. But all the tone of his intervention reminded me of the take of cod liver oil: he knows wrong but does well. And you'll see it's taking effect. Even if it does not accept that the current government has been obliged by Brussels to reduce the deficit, see the Member who, even if he is supposed to be, has lowered the deficit and his Government has increased it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] All the objectives of the adjustment programme, which for you were the alpha and omega of your policy, relating to the budget deficit, have failed. And they didn't fail to come down, they failed to increase the deficit in the face of your commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even if it does not accept that the current government has been obliged by Brussels to reduce the debt, see the honourable Member who has lowered the debt and increased it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So it is better, perhaps, to look to the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u120	It's better, because the past is black!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u121	And this debate shows that we all share the same objective of promoting the internationalization of the Portuguese economy, but that we have an essential difference: that the parties on the right still believe that internationalization goes through the bet on the pattern of specialization based on low wages and low income. The gentlemen. Members still believe that it can only be possible to increase external demand at the cost of domestic demand. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u122	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u123	I conclude, yes, Mr President. Internationalisation of the economy requires more than that, it requires something else than that: it requires qualification, it requires economic openness, it requires foreign policy focused on market diversification and support for investment firms and it requires social consultation. And that is our programme, Mr. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u124	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u125	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u126	Mr President, it is for a quick request to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u128	Mr President, I would like to point out that Mr Minister has been able to distribute to the rest of the banks Eurostat and Banco de Portugal data on the deficit in Portugal from 2011 to 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u129	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs also requested the floor to call on the Bureau. I'm guessing it's also about the progress of the work. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u130	Mr President, I am asking for the floor exactly in the same way that Mr Luís Campos Ferreira spoke. In order to complete the data already suggested by Mr. Deputies, he requested that the data comparing the targets in the adjustment program should also be distributed with the targets that were achieved in each of these years and now adding to the data on the deficit data on public debt between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u131	Like the ladies. You know, the Bureau is always diligent in the distribution of data that you really do. Ladies and gentlemen, we got here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u132	Mr President, I call again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u133	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u134	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, for the same purposes in which Mr. Secretary of State spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u135	No, Mr. Deputy,... [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u136	... there is no longer any further call to the Bureau for « the same effects ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u137	Thank you very much for your bias, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u138	The honourable Member has had the opportunity to make an inquiry on the progress of the work to request the distribution of documentation, which we are looking forward to the Bureau, as is the case with the documentation referred to by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u139	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u140	Would you like to speak to the Bureau, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u141	Mr President, I do not wish to speak to the Bureau, just said a parliamentary part. I believe that all Members have the right to speak. If Mr Luís Campos Ferreira asked to speak, I think that Mr President — that is my personal opinion — should have given it to him. This is my interpretation, my personal opinion, and I think I have the right to offer it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u142	Mr President, you just want to have an answer that the Bureau is helping to maintain the high level of debate. That's your duty, and that's what you do. For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u143	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy is a nuclear objective of the political action of the Socialist Party and the Government of Portugal. It is an objective that is translated into concrete goals that we want to achieve and into dynamics that we want to achieve. The internationalization of the economy is an objective and, being an objective, we distance ourselves from the mere idea of phenomenon that happens, or does not happen, by mere circumstance dependent on exogenous factors, revealing the absence of strategy. The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy is, for us, paramount to the success of the economy itself and is therefore paramount to the success of the country. If it is so paramount, if it is such an obvious objective that it should not even be given to the taste of tides, what should the State do? What should a government undertake to catalyze, encourage and provide that such a design is constantly, stable and lasting, thus also mitigating the effect of possible less positive international cycles? What must a government do to ensure that the internationalisation framework of the Portuguese economy manifests itself in a positive and timely manner? What must a government do to make the economy grow beyond the size of its own market? What must a government do to strengthen our economy and be able to generate wealth, create jobs and make investments? What should a government do? The answer is simple, and it is so simple that today, just over two years back on the takeover of the current government, it is already possible to conclude that any government has to do exactly what this government has done, which is, of course, defending a set of public policies that are inducers and mobilizers as opposed to a waiting State that reacts and only reacts to the situation at the moment. The National Reform Programme was thus defined when three axes were established: innovation, which adds value, which generates value, which promotes competitive advantages; capitalization, which strengthens economic agents and empowers companies for new projects; and internationalization, which, together with innovation and capitalization, provides the growth of the economy. The correlation between economic operators and public entities becomes essential. It is not enough to have capable and motivated economic agents and certain and intervening public entities if this does not happen at the same time. If Portuguese companies never lack motivation, capacity was what the new generation of public policies brought them, as well as the determination based on the partnership of public entities, whose proximity and commitment are essential. The objectives proposed by the Internationalisation Programme are very explicit and set out the direction and path of the national economy, which is geared towards the desired success and which is already demonstrated with results: more exports, increasing them and increasing their relative weight in GDP, with the contribution to increasing the openness of the Portuguese economy as a condition for growth and job creation; more exporters, in which the growth potential of the number of exporting companies, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, should allow a renewal of the national exporting fabric, where the monitoring of national startups is included; more markets and foreign direct investment, because it is essential to capture this type of investment, and more Portuguese investment abroad, because it is also necessary to enable our companies with their presence abroad through internationalization; more value added and with this contribution, more national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u144	I'm asking you to finish. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u145	Therefore, public intervention, through appropriate and consistent policies, determines, with its requirement, the fundamental difference between success as an objective and casual, intermittent and fleeting success.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u146	You have to finish. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u147	On the other hand, all the indicators we have — all, without exception — indicate that the climate of international confidence in the economy and in the country discredits the voices that markets and external agents would see Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u148	Mr President, you have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u149	...as a singularity and even a bizarre. Portugal today has more value for businesses and for people. Portugal gives trust and Portugal has more value because it gives trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u150	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u152	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u153	Mr President, on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u154	With regard to the conduct of the work, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u155	Mr President, with regard to the answer Mr Deputy gave to our bench colleague Mr Matos Rosa. [[President! President!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u156	The answer I gave...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u157	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u158	The answer I gave to Mr Matos Rosa was Mr Matos Rosa. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u159	But you have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. I could use another figure, perhaps even more appropriate, which would be that of defending honor, but I'm going to stay around here. Mr President, did you reply to the honourable Member that he was not giving me the floor not to lower the level of the debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u162	I ask you, who is Mr President to say this to a Member of this House? [[PSD applause.]] To a member of this House who is asking for documents to be distributed to help clarify the debate, Mr President, is he suggesting that it is to lower the level of the debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u163	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u164	Mr President, I would like to leave here my deep indignation and even some disappointment with the exercise you are doing your job. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u165	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mr Luís Campos Ferreira : Mr Matos Rosa had made one part, audible at the Bureau, using an expression which is not, in the opinion of the Bureau, admissible...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u166	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u167	... concerning censorship of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u168	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-16.u169	Nevertheless, the Bureau gave the floor to Mr Matos Rosa and in reply to Mr Matos Rosa, what was said was not that he was denied the floor to you, what was said is that it is general consideration that the duty of the Bureau is to contribute to the elevation of parliamentary work. That was the exact answer I gave and is the exact answer I continue to maintain, in the name of the dignity of the Bureau and the dignity of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, I am going to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will take place at 3 p.m. and which consists of a marking of the Left Block, where the projects of lein. 870 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed together and in general. ( a ) — Introducing new transparency rules in the banking sector and strengthening the powers of parliamentary investigations in access to banking information ( 49 ). the amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December and 3. the amendment of the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ( BE) and 871 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures a system for access and automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation ( BE ), Bill No 130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for the application of the automatic access scheme to financial information to residents in national territory and the projects of lein.o 875 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Technical Unit for the Recovery of Heritage resulting from the credits that read the national bank ( PCP ), 876 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for disclosure of information relating to the granting of high-value credits ( PCP ), 877 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Access to banking information by parliamentary committees of inquiry and transparency in respect of large unencumbered or restructured loans in financial institutions receiving support from the State for their capitalisation ( PSD ) and 836 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in public support to the financial sector ( CDS-PP ). at the end of the debate may take place, because it is an agenda under a power right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 29 minutes.]]
