ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the solemn session of Good Sales to His Excellency the President of the Republic of Angola. [[It was 14 hours and 30 minutes.]] As expected, I will immediately suspend the session to receive His Excellency the President of the Portuguese Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, and His Excellency the President of the Republic of Angola, João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, and Ms. Ana Dias Lourenço. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare adjourned. [[It was 14 hours and 31 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, the session is reopened. [[It was 15 hours and 14 minutes.]] at this time, the band of the Republican National Guard, posted in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem of Angola and the national anthem of Portugal, which was sung standing. Mr. President of the Republic of Angola, João Lourenço, Mr. President of the Portuguese Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Dr. Ana Dias Lourenço, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. Chief of the Air Force Staff, Mr. Ambassadors of Angola in Lisbon and Portugal in Luanda, President of the Social Democratic Party, Ombudsman, Mrs. Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, Mr. Representative of the Regional Secretary of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Mr. State Counsellor, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps and other members of the Diplomatic Corps, Civil and Military Authorities, Illustres Invited and Invited, Excellencies, My Ladies and Gentlemen : Today we celebrate friendship and fraternity between Portugal and Angola. We do so in the most solemn way, in the Chamber of Sessions of the Assembly of the Republic, honoured by the presence of His Excellency the President of the Portuguese Republic and in a very particular period of interruption of the parliamentary plenary, due to the proceedings relating to the State budget for 2019. in your person, President João Lourenço, and by Dr. Ana Dias Lourenço, we welcome the Angolan people with open arms. What makes the Luso-Angola friendship unique is its depth and extent, its source are the bonds of affection and solidarity that unite the two peoples. The independence of Angola and the end of Portuguese colonialism have put our relationship on a new basis: that of equality and mutual respect. Portugal has democratized itself, developed itself and decolonised itself. On 25 April 1974 it will remain in history as a founding moment, in which the struggle of the Portuguese against the dictatorship and the struggle of the African peoples of Guinea, Mozambique and Angola for their independence have allied themselves. It ended the international isolation and began the construction of democratic Portugal, solidarity and open to the world. In fact, the independence of the old colonies freed our relationship from the ties of the past and thus brought us closer together. Mr. President João Lourenço, Mr. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Mrs. Members: We recognize our differences, but what prevails is human warmth, the desire to work together, to cooperate and to live side by side in a relationship between equal States and friends. We do so today at the most varied levels and at the most varied bilateral and multilateral instances, starting with the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ). We do not forget Angola's support for the candidatures of Antonio Guterres to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and of Antonio Vitorino to the International Organization of Migration. There is much where we can and should work together as active partners of the international community. At bilateral level, we do so through institutional dialogue and the exchange of official visits, as was the visit of our Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, so successful in September. We do so in trade — we are all aware of the importance of the Angolan market for our exporters, for our investors. The reverse also applies: Angola's position in direct investment in Portugal and our imports is significant. In structuring our relationship, we have a wide network of instruments. in this particular, I hope that the Strategic Programme of Cooperation, signed in September and which has as temporal horizon 2022, will be crowned with success. It is a programme that, by its scope, says a lot about our common ambition and the purpose of improving the lives of the people. The Portuguese-Angola cooperation also has a parliamentary aspect, which dates back to 1987. The Parliamentary Cooperation Programme that we continue with the Angolan National Assembly lasts until the end of 2018, being strongly oriented towards information technologies and the development of tools that improve the visibility of parliamentary work by citizens. I therefore hope that the programme to be prepared for the next biennium will be ambitious and will reach high implementation rates. Mr. President João Lourenço, Mr. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Mrs. Members : To talk about the Luso-Angola relationship is to talk first and foremost about the relationship between people, of all those who, in their daily lives, support it. In Angola they reside and work about 135 000 Portuguese, who refused their lives there, forming a family and building the future. His work and his dynamism are important contributions to the progress and development of Angola, a nation that has suffered so much with a civil war of decades, that he has reaped so many lives after the colonial war. It is also an indissoluble link to the Luso-Angola relationship. And there are about 17,000 Angolans who study and work in Portugal, thus enriching our social and cultural fabric. Mr. President João Lourenço, Mr. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Mrs. Members: Here we come to another link that congregates us, the Portuguese language. The literature of Augustinho Neto, by José Luandino Vieira ( Premio Camões, in 2006 ), by José Eduardo Agualusa, of Pepetela, but also that which circulates in the media, makes the seven hours of flight from Lisbon to Luanda seconds on the Internet. An excellent illustration in teaching is the Portuguese School of Luanda, opened in 1986 and which is synonymous with quality. Wider expression of the Portuguese language is our common membership and our commitment to the CPLP. This organization, a privileged area of dialogue, cooperation and action among its members, has been fruitful in the adoption of instruments that facilitate the lives of our citizens: this is the case with matters of consular, cinema, malaria control, higher education, youth and sport. There is still much to be done, but today, CPLP is a reality recognized by the international community. It has a multiplier capacity, which is in our interest to promote: that of designing us in the international community with one voice and one's own interests. We can do this at government level, but also between parliaments. with regard to the Assembly of the Republic, we note with great satisfaction the close relationship between Portuguese and Angolan colleagues in the Inter-Parliamentary Union and reiterate our full support for Luanda as the headquarters of the CPLP Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. Mr. President João Lourenço, Mr. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, Mrs. Members: Your presence and intervention at this Solemn Good Friday Session, President João Lourenço, symbolizes how much Portugal and Angola, the Portuguese and Angolans, have in common and what we can do more for the narrowing of this relationship of friends and brothers. I do not want to end without personally greeting you for your courage and determination to affirm in Angola a democratic rule of law. As President of the Republic of Angola, we wish you the greatest happiness. in one of his poems, Luandino Vieira asks: The question in the air/ sea/ in the mouth of all of us: / Luanda, where is it? To this question I answer : Luanda is in our hearts. Angola is in our hearts. Thank you very much. [[General applause.]] For an intervention, Mr President of the Republic of Angola, João Lourenço, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-22.u2	His Excellency Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Portuguese Republic, Ex.M. Ferro Rodrigues, President of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, Ex.M. António Costa, Prime Minister of the Portuguese Republic, Ex.M. Members, Ex.mos Sr. Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps accredited in Portugal, Illustres Invitados, My Ladies and Gentlemen : It is a reason for me to address the worthy representatives of the Portuguese people on this first visit to Portugal as President of the Republic of Angola. I therefore thank you for the invitation of your Excellency and I ask you to accept a special greeting from the Angolan people to all present and, through you, to the Portuguese people. I would like to stress how much the ties that bind our two peoples and countries have been strengthening, on the basis of respect for each other's sovereignty and independence, in the interest of mutually advantageous cooperation. With a history of fraternal living, our peoples are naturally destined to share a common future of solidarity and assistance, facilitated by the language and the defence of common values. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Angola has been living in an effective, lasting and irreversible peace situation for 16 years, in an environment of perfect national reconciliation, having begun the process of rebuilding its main infrastructures, it is time to face new challenges in order to ensure the deepening of democracy and the economic and social development of the country. In addition to the challenge of implementation, for the first time, of the indigenous power in Angola, being the legislative package in the process of consultation and discussion at the National Assembly and the forecast of the holding of the first elections in 2020, the Executive to whom the President elected two main fronts of battle that, once won, will ensure the success of our governance programme and, consequently, will bring progress and well-being to the Angolan citizens, in a framework of greater respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution and the law. I am referring to the need for the moralization of our society in general, with regard to which there is a set of actions to be carried out over time, but above all, I am referring here to the need to combat corruption and impunity, with the involvement of the legislative and judicial power but also of the entire civil society, which is seen in it as an active part in the fight against this cancer that supports the foundations of any society. It is not possible or relevant to detail here what is being done concretely, I must only ensure that we are building a new Angola, transparency, fair competition in business, with an increasingly investment-friendly business environment. This fight, which occurs from the base to the top, is added to the action that aims to restore the authority of the State institutions, making our country safer and more attractive for tourism and private investment. The second front is the diversification of our economy, with a view to developing all sectors of the non-oil economy, reducing imports of essential goods, increasing the supply of goods produced in the country, increasing the volume of exports and foreign exchange, increasing the supply of employment, which has as its main actor, as the main agent, the national or foreign private investor. These are just a few aspects of our intention to make Angola ascend to a summit place in Africa with regard to transparency, the resolution of the basic problems of the population and the level of progress and the well-being of the citizens. Thanks to a set of courageous macroeconomic measures adopted, a slight recovery of economic growth for 2019 is expected with the non-oil sector displaying more encouraging growth rates. With a view to supporting this recovery effort, the Government is negotiating an expanded funding programme with the International Monetary Fund, which will guarantee greater market confidence in the Angolan economy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal represents, for us, an important partner, with whom we have a solid and lasting relationship, which, as in any other relationship, needs to be constantly fed and repeated with gestures and attitudes of both sides involved. Our commitment is to maintain our relationship to the profound ties of friendship between our peoples. Angola is open to a greater presence of Portuguese entrepreneurs and businessmen in our economy, so that we can build in practice a mutually advantageous basis of cooperation for our peoples and countries. However, we would like our relations not to be reduced to mere sharing of economic and business interests but to extend and strengthen at the level of permanent political, diplomatic and parliamentary consultations and exchanges of information and experiences in the fields of education, science, technology, culture and sport. Only in this way will it be possible to strengthen mutual knowledge in all aspects, on which the relations of two peoples that are loved, respected and shared common experiences must be based. It is gratifying for us to see that the positions of our countries in the international Areopagus always converge in the defence of peace and democracy and in the condemnation of racism, xenophobia or any other form of discrimination against human beings. The persistence of conflicts in various regions of the planet, the external interference in the internal affairs of other States and the adoption in many countries of authoritarian and extremist forms of government, which we thought were overcome, obliges us to maintain clear positions on the defence of the inalienable rights of citizens. We will unite our efforts to safeguard life on our planet, threatened by rapid and increasing climate change, and in the fight against organized and cross-border crime, terrorism, illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and drugs and other reprehensible practices. We defend the peaceful resolution of conflicts between States, multilateralism in international relations, the end of the conflict in Yemen and Syria, which have caused one of the greatest humanitarian catastrophes of all time. in the Middle East, with regard to one of the oldest conflicts the world knows, the Israeli-Palestinian, we defend the right of the Palestinian people to create their own State, living in peace and harmony with the State of Israel. This is the clear position contained in the resolutions of the UN Security Council, reflecting the will of the overwhelming majority of its members and of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, that all they want is peace and harmony. We warmly welcome the efforts made by the two Koreas, the United States of America and China for reducing the tension and the definitive end of the conflict on the Korean Peninsula, for their denuclearization and possible unification. It is, however, with some apprehension that the world has seen the emergence of worrying signs that point to the possible return to the Cold War, if the two main superpowers do not begin by containment and good sense in the way they address strategic issues, where they do not always converge the interests they defend. Finally, it is important not to neglect our relations within the Community of Portuguese-speaking countries, the CPLP, based on language, culture and a common history with roots in Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. This singularity gives CPLP a unique and original character, which should be more valued and exploited by governments and citizens of our countries, because it is in diversity and in the exchange of diverse cultures and traditions that humanity enriches and can prosper. I will leave Portugal with the conviction that my visit can in a great deal contribute to re-enacting our strategic and privileged partnership, confident that we can have ahead of us a common, promising and quite radiological future. Thank you very much. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes (on foot) and BE MP Jorge Campos, the members of BE Carlos Matias, Heitor de Sousa and José Manuel Pureza and the MP of PAN André Silva have risen.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-22.u3	Thank you all very much. We will also hear again and participate in the execution of the national hymns of the Republic of Angola and the Portuguese Republic, and I declare the sitting closed. The Republican National Guard Band executed the national anthem of Angola, which was sung, standing, by the present in the Chamber and in the Galleries. [[General applause, stand up.]] Then, the Republican National Guard Band executed the national anthem, which was sung, standing, by the present in the Chamber and in the galleries. [[General applause, stand up.]] [[It was 15 hours and 44 minutes.]]
