ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to the following draft laws: No 782/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Special social support programme for the island of Pico ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission; point 783/ XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ( CDS-PP ) ; No 784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace — Competition, Organization and Operation ) ( CDS-PP ) ; No 785 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ( CDS-PP ) ; No 786 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters ( CDS-PP ) ; No 787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law, and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( CDS-PP ) ; No 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — 10th amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals — the creation of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges ( CDS-PP ) ; and 789 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the Order of Social Assistants ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following draft resolutions: No 1353/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of the buildings annexed to the São Jorge lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission; points 1354 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the transitional financing of doctoral researchers whose scholarships have ceased pending the application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2017 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 1355 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement Article 182. the Code of Procedure of the Administrative Tribunals in matters of administrative arbitration ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1356 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the re-evaluation and revision of the Action Plan + Next, taking into account the measures proposed in the Agreements for the Justice System document of January 2018 ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1357 / XIII ( 3 ) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with the aim of studying the revision of the General System of Contraordinations contained in Decree-Law No 433 / 82 of 27 October ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1358 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Contraction and integration of the Science and Technology Management Fellowships ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; point 1359 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government move the portico of the Aveiro Municipal Stadium in order to safeguard the interests of the local economy of Aveiro and of all those who have to travel in the urban mesh of that city ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1360 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the intensification of actions to monitor and monitor polluting discharges and the implementation of an action plan for cleaning the Ul, Antuã and Caima rivers ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1361 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by strengthening primary health care of proximity to populations ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1362 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a committee to review criminal legislation, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to study and implement a compliance control system to define the criminal liability of legal persons ( CDS-PP ) ; and No 1363 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greater autonomy for the hiring of professionals by the entities of the National Health Service ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. A report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3, has also been submitted to the Bureau. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies, by Mr Pedro Passos Coelho ( PSD ), a constituency in Lisbon, being replaced by Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, with effect from 1 March 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has ceased his duties in the Assembly of the Republic. Pedro Passos Coelho has exercised high responsibility in the PSD Parliamentary Group, in the direction of the PSD and the Government of Portugal. Regardless of the political assessments of each and the plurality of the visions represented herein, Pedro Passos Coelho deserves the consideration and respect of all the banks and, firstly, the President of the Assembly of the Republic in the correct and convincing manner with which he has always defended his views. On behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I thank you for your sense of service to the public cause and I wish you the greatest personal happiness in this new phase of your life. [[PSD (on foot), PS and CDS-PP (on foot) applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us begin our agenda today, which consists of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, which takes place under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Prime Minister, hoping that he will find himself well after the flu outbreak which has also hit so many Members, particularly the Portuguese family. We will therefore start the debate, and the CFP is the first intervention. To that end, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister : For us, the value of work and workers is a central element of the alternative policy that the country needs. Increasing wages, ensuring decent working hours, combating precariousness, defending the rights of collective bargaining are measures that need to be implemented. A response is needed with another scope to the problems that mark millions of workers every day in the various sectors. We have this example in the problem of defrosting progress in Public Administration careers. Measures have been taken in the last State budget to move forward. About a month ago, we brought here our concern about how the government was doing this thawing in relation to operational assistants with increases that did not reach €4. This decision has been corrected, with an appreciation that will reach about 55 € in two years. It is fair that this is the case, but it is necessary for the defrosting of career progression to reach all workers in a fair way, including those whose careers have specific rules, such as teachers, doctors, nurses, professionals and security forces services, as well as the military. When and in what terms will public administration workers have the remunerative appreciation that results from the thawing of career progressions? We also have another problem to solve: the precariousness of work in the public and private sectors means the worsening exploitation of workers, instability in employment and life. This issue requires measures to put an end to long-term contracts, temporary work and other legal and illegal mechanisms used to use and discard workers. It requires that the fight against precariousness be completed in the business sector of the State and in the Public Administration. But the data that comes to us is worrying. It is necessary to open the tenders quickly, which should have been opened by the end of January, for the linkage of workers as a result of the commitments made in the State budgets. It is necessary to ensure that all situations of workers with precarious links corresponding to permanent needs are regulated. Mr Prime Minister, you cannot accept that this process becomes a fraud. What response will the Government give to all these situations of precarious work? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, we have the problem of the most serious standards of labour law, from the working hours onwards. There are thousands and thousands of workers obliged to provide unpaid work, particularly through the application of the hourly bank and cuts in extraordinary work, which remain covered by unfair labour legislation. It is legislation that keeps the guillotine of expiry on rights and collective bargaining, workers and their organisations. No, Mr. Prime Minister, there is no free negotiation if one of the parties has the expiry knife in hand. How will the government respond to this problem? Follow the PCP or reconverge with the PSD and CDS, how did it happen with regard to extraordinary work? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u6	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I will try to answer the many questions you have raised in my own time. With regard to the first issue of defrosting careers, I must say that the two-party evaluation committees are operating in all ministries. There were a total of 39 000 workers who had already been valued in the months of January and February and the expectation that, by the end of March, we had reached 42 000 workers. The forecast we have is that in April there are already 88 000 workers in public service with their frozen careers. With regard to the fight against precariousness both in the public sector and in the private sector, he is well aware of what we have already done and of what is contained in the Government Programme. What is contained in the Government Programme, and which is currently under discussion in social consultation, is the penalisation of companies that use too much turnover in individual long-term employment contracts. What we did in the public sector was open a process. from this process there were 31 900 workers who required their registration. at this time, only two ministries, the Foreign Affairs Department and the National Defence Department have completed their work and have all the situations evaluated. We expect this work to be completed in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the Ministries of Finance, Internal Administration, Justice, Economics and Agriculture. The 805 opinions already produced are already approved and the competitions will be opened in April. We must recognize that the process is complex and has taken longer than perhaps we all expected. The fact is that the services have had difficulty collecting data and confirming situations, but the fundamental principle is very clear and that is what he stated here: for permanent functions, there is no place for precarious work, there must be proper integration and as it is legislated in the framework of public service. Another aspect has to do with collective bargaining, in which we define its thawing as a priority. The first step we have taken was to freeze the mechanism of expiry, which, as you know, by agreement in social consultation, is suspended until June or July, in order to allow the parties to move forward in matters of collective bargaining. On the other hand, we have deburred the process of production and application of extension doors and today the number of workers covered by collective bargaining is significantly greater than we had two years ago. But it is absolutely essential that the parties undertake to do what must be done, i.e. to increase the level of collective bargaining. In fact, this is the best framework for regulating atypical time situations, and that is why we will eliminate, as the Government Programme states, the individual hourly bank, so that these mechanisms can be properly adjusted, sector to sector or company, depending on the specific realities that can justify the existence of specific times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u7	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I think we have been less than half-way with your intervention, but we shall be here to continue the debate. I would like to ask you a question about the replacement of communications in areas affected by fires. last week, we had the tragic news of the death of a woman whose husband, aged and sick, had to travel 2 km until he could use a phone to call 112. This situation confirms, tragically, the concern we brought here in early February: PT Altice is refusing the replacement of the telephone service in areas affected by fires and is transferring to people the cost of the replacement of the service. We made the complaint and repeated it. The situations that we have reported here, particularly in the city of Arganil, continue to be resolved and even today there is news about the elderly without a telephone to whom they are being distributed mobiles that have only a small problem: people have no network. The government cannot passively look at the problem by referring the solution to the company that was privatised and which has put profits above people's lives. It is in view of the importance of regaining the public control of PT, but also the need of the Government to intervene in order to ensure that communications are quickly restored and the rights of the people defended. You have to have an answer to this problem, Prime Minister. Finally, we are aware that it is necessary to involve everyone in order to prevent tragedies in the forest, such as last year's tragedies. A plot is created on the ground, with contradictory indications, that the intimidating e-mail sent by the Tax Authority to millions of citizens is the best example. We have news of small owners being pressured by certain market agents to keep them with biomass, trees and even land, such is the unjustified panic that the government has launched. So I ask you the following questions: has the government guaranteed the means to support the small and medium-sized forest owners, defending them from the gamblers who already have their properties? Can the Prime Minister ensure that the entire area of public forest, or co-management by the State, will be cleaned on March 15th? How many hectares of controlled fires have been made? How many kilometres of primary tracks have already been opened? In the meantime, Mr. Prime Minister, time is running out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u10	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I will not discuss with you whether we are already or not on the way. I am pleased to note that we are on the right path, and this is the most important one, because if there is no way to go, we will continue to go through it, as we have done over these two years and how we will continue to do until the end of this Parliament at least. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards communications, at last summer's fires, 3,000 km of cable was burned and 45,000 cabbage posts were destroyed. According to information provided to ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) by operators, 99, 5 % of cases are restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u11	How much is 0, 5 %? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u12	ANACOM has been checking the 0, 5 % missing since February but also checking whether 99, 5 % actually met. What has been detected so far by ANACOM is that there are 14 parish churches throughout the country, in the municipalities of Sertã, Gouveia, Oliveira do Hospital and Pampilhosa da Serra, where the service is not yet restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u13	You can add Arganil!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u14	You must ensure that it is fully restored. It is also monitoring, as it is responsible, the existence of unfair commercial practices, because it is important not only that the service be re-established but that it is in respect of the rights of consumers of these services. in this regard, all complaints received by the Government have been referred to ANACOM. In addition, in relation to the specific case referred to by the deceased, he opened a specific investigation to verify this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u15	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u16	Mr President, then, I will finish now, and I will leave the answer to the question of cleaning forests by later on, on another question to me. I will not fail to respond, because I believe that this clarification is of public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u18	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the words you addressed last week to the new leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group and telling you that the Member who is here today as leader of this bench is the same as you were sitting in the ranks back there. So count on me and with all institutional loyalty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u19	I also wanted to greet all the benches we're working with. Since I am now a parliamentary leader, I follow the benches in the people of their respective leaders. We are here to work on behalf of the national interest, which is why we have been elected, and that is what we will certainly do. in this respect I also include the Left Block, although I said I didn't want anything with the PSD. But the PSD Members are endowed with a deep democratic culture and therefore, of course, we also include in this compliance the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] Allow me, Mr President, to pay a very special compliment to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, who today leaves the Assembly of the Republic. I want to wish you the greatest happiness and tell you that History will know how to do justice to it. [[Greetings from the PSD, with Members standing up.]] Mr. Prime Minister, here we are again. And I say 'again' because this is not the first time that we have these debates. We've had them in the City Hall of Lisbon, some nice, some less nice, but that's part of political life, as you know better than I do, because you have more political experience than I do. I would also like to congratulate the whole government, of course, and say that, as an opposition stand, this opposition will be exercised in a responsible, constructive but firm way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u21	On the one hand, Prime Minister, I am sure that it will be possible, on major issues of national interest, to dialogue and reach agreement. If these issues of national and regime interest require the necessary dialogue and agreement, there is full availability of this bench for this purpose. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, we must and will have a firm attitude towards governance. And we will have this attitude of firmness and opposition to governance every day, because we do not abdicate anything, Prime Minister : to represent the Portuguese who do not show up in this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u22	Mr. Prime Minister, a first topic, to start talking, has to do with the entrance of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa in the capital of Montepio General. I want to be loyal to you and from now on tell you that, regardless of the conditions, our position is very clear: we are against, and — I would say — in any circumstances. Even the leader of the Social Democratic Party himself, Dr. Rui Rio, in public statements, has already said it clearly, declaring it against this operation. And there are reasons for this, Mr Prime Minister: the money of the poor and of the social works should not be destined for the banks. This is a matter of principle for us, so our position is so clear. It is also a very high-risk operation to be taken by the social institutions and should not be at that risk. The risk is for private entities, not for social entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u24	Mr. Prime Minister, here is a warning: if there is a minimum sign that this operation does not ensure the financial interests of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon, the PSD Parliamentary Group is prepared to use all parliamentary instruments at its disposal to monitor and investigate up to the latest consequences. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I have already left you with two questions: if the decision is taken — this information is important — what value and under what conditions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u25	Mr Fernando Negrão, thank you for your words. I have limited myself to doing what is normal for any President of the Assembly of the Republic, who is to greet the new leader of the parliamentary panel of the largest party of the Assembly of the Republic. Besides, I know him many years ago and I know that his political life began long, very early. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u26	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, allow me first and foremost to associate myself with the words of greeting addressed to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, who had already had the opportunity to welcome in the last debate but had not had the opportunity to listen, because he was not present in the circumstances. I did not want to fail to welcome you today as former Prime Minister and by the way you performed your duties, I am sure that you would do so in accordance with your reading of the national interest. Therefore, I would not fail to associate myself with the words of greeting and farewell — circumstantial, of course — addressed to Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho at the moment he ceased his duties in the Assembly of the Republic. Allow me, too, Mr Fernando Negrão, to greet your predecessor, Mr Hugo Soares, of whom I did not have the opportunity to say goodbye in the last debate because he was still fully in office, telling him that it was a pleasure to have him as an interlocutor during the few weeks in which we lived in these functions. Finally, Dr. Fernando Negrão — the last are the first — is pleased to meet him again. It was not only in the City Hall of Lisbon that we had met; already in previous functions we had had the opportunity to meet and work together. I would like to welcome the way you see this debate, not as a 15-year duel we have here, but as part of the democratic exercise of dialogue between two sovereign bodies and the duty that the Government has to take account of and be monitored by the Assembly of the Republic. That is how these debates should take place and I am pleased to see these debates resume the normality that certainly inspired those who thought about their fortnight existence. I would like to say, firstly, that no decision is being taken and now there is no time frame for decision-making. On the other hand, I believe that we share from the same point of view: there should be no application of the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon in Montepio or any other institution that does not have an acceptable financial risk. The funds of the Holy House of Mercy are necessarily applied in assets. It is an entity with exceptional liquidity and therefore applies this liquidity to assets. Do so in accordance with the prudential rules you have and must therefore continue to be. Ask me if Montepio is a good investment or not. As you will recall, the former Provider ordered, in good time, an evaluation. This evaluation is ongoing and, according to this evaluation, the table of the Holy House of Mercy will certainly make the best decision. Now we have no reason to be against that decision at the outset. I've had the opportunity to say that I don't know who the author was, but I think, in thesis, it's a good idea. If, in particular, it is an idea that should be pursued, I think that, without completion of this assessment, this study is premature to make any positive, or negative, decision on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u27	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u28	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to the explanation you gave us here, but I will insist on the matter, and I will insist that this is a matter that we are very concerned about. We're talking about money from the social action that belongs to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon to get into the capital of a bank. I have already heard the Minister guarding the area speak in the construction of a social economy bank. And yesterday we had a news that gave us the feeling that it was one more step in this way and that it was the indication of an administrator for Montepio by the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa — and I did not see this news being denied. Now, the feeling that you have is that there is a course to be taken in this direction. So I ask you, Prime Minister : what reason, for example, did the Agricultural Credit Fund not accept to be part of the capital of Montepio General? Why? Oh, my God! Another question, Prime Minister : why did no mercy accompany the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon to be part of the capital of Montepio General? But we don't stay here, Prime Minister, and we ask: what is the reason that no private investor has appeared to integrate the capital of Montepio General?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u29	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u30	This says everything, Prime Minister, about the risk of this operation. We're talking about social action money, we're talking about money for the poor, we're talking about money for the needy who goes to banks. Now, the past and what still happens to some banks, both in Portugal and outside Portugal, does not advise operations at such a risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u32	Trust banks, only those in the garden!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u33	Mr Prime Minister, what scares me — and let me tell you this — is to see a left-wing government take such a position and make such a decision. It scares me, Prime Minister! Moreover, with the silence of the extreme left parties, the Left Block and the PCP! Complete silence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u34	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u35	You're losing the varnish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u36	He's already putting his foot in the ring!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u37	Mr. Prime Minister, if I may, let me say that this reminds me of a little bit the Robin of the Forests, but on the contrary: this is to take money to the poor to put on the banks, which I think is not good, Mr. Prime Minister. So these questions remain: why did these entities not want to integrate the capital of Montepio General? And why does the government insist on this solution? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u39	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, first of all, I would like to address the issue. The Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon effectively exists to serve the poor. The sources of income are very diverse — most of which is having the monopoly of gambling and gambling, where they play rich, play poor, play anyone who wants to play — and the law assigns a very diversified distribution key to these revenues. The Holy House of Mercy, with these particular recipes, has high liquidity. What he does, of course, as he has always done, is to apply these revenues in investments that are reproductive, that increase his heritage and increase his ability to serve the poor. That is why: for many years, he invested in building acquisition, when buildings were buildings of income; lately, he has invested heavily in building rehabilitation, so that they are income buildings again; he has applications in very diverse social participations. Therefore, usually, the Holy House of Mercy applies the money it has to make money, to increase the money it has and to serve the poor, which is its mission. in this case, about one more year ago (at least as far as I am concerned), I verified by the social communication that the Santa Casa da Misericórdia until I thought to participate in the capital of a so-called « national nucleus» that wanted to acquire the New Bank, because there was a set of personalities who understood it was important to gather national capital so that the New Bank would remain in national hands. And it was even reported in the press that the Holy House of Mercy considered this possibility. Some time later, I was personally contacted by the then Provider of the Holy House of Mercy (which, at the time, I believe, also contacted Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security ), who told us: "We have been asked the question of having an application in the financial sector and it seems to us that the most appropriate application to the profile of the Holy House of Mercy would be in a bank such as Montepio, which may be a social bank, which may come to gather other entities from the third sector and which may be a new source of income for the Holy House of Mercy". And we were asked if we had anything to oppose. We said we had nothing to oppose this hypothesis being analyzed. We know that the then Provider of the Holy House of Mercy commissioned a study, in order to evaluate the goodness or evil of this initiative. Now, in my view, the criterion which you have defined here is the correct criterion: if it is a good investment, it is desirable that it be made; if it is a bad investment, it is desirable that it is not done. [[A truth from La Palice!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u40	Now, the investment in that bank is an investment identical to an investment or another bank, or another company or any other type of asset with a higher or lower risk. Therefore, I will not rush and give an opinion without knowing, as I assume you do not know, the study that the table of Santa Casa da Misericórdia has requested to evaluate this initiative and, according to which, it will make a decision. I also know that the administration of Banco de Portugal, consulted, did not show a negative position. I must also tell you that I have been aware of other third-sector institutions that have shown interest in participating in such an operation. Therefore, I think we should wait for things to take place in the right way: to evaluate to decide, and not to decide without evaluation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u41	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u42	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you not to try « shake the water from the hood » with the figure of the former Provider of the Holy House of Mercy. What the former Provider of the Holy House of Mercy did was ask for a study — the final point! -, nothing more than this. Now, we are going much further: yesterday, we knew that the Holy House of Mercy indicated the name of someone to integrate and represent the Holy House of Mercy in the administration of the General Montepio. Yesterday, we knew this! Now, these steps were no longer taken by the former Provider of the Holy House of Mercy but, yes, by the present and, obviously, by the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u43	Now, Prime Minister, one thing is fortune and chance games — these are in casinos spread across the country — and another is social games, these, yes, are those of the Holy House of Mercy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, to conclude at least this time, since we are obviously going to continue to follow you, I would like to tell you that a business involving banks does not have the same nature as the others that Mr Prime Minister mentioned here. Most entities, or almost all, did not want to integrate the capital of Montepio. So there is a problem here that we need to clarify. Besides, this is a high-risk business. All that involves the bank is always a high-risk business, which should not be taken over by social entities but, yes, by private entities. These are the duty and obligation to take these risks, not the social entities. Mr Prime Minister, since my time has been spent — and I am even amazed by Mr President that he has not said anything — and that my next question was long, I am now here, but we will have the opportunity to continue to discuss other matters in other debates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u44	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u45	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, referring to the previous Ombudsman, was not « writhing the water from the hood », for the simple reason that the former Provider was only previous Provider because this Government confirmed it in its functions and therefore we are responding to both the previous Provider's and the current Provider's actions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u46	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party follows. You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make a very brief statement to give rise to the contribution of our parliamentary group through Mr Ivan Gonçalves. A very brief statement was made to congratulate, firstly, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho on his last day of parliamentary presence in this Parliament and to tell him that, without prejudice to the evaluation we have made and that we make their contribution to political, economic and social development in our country, his civic commitment and the firmness he has deposited in the exercise of his convictions must be recorded. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Mr Fernando Negrão, who today stands in his position as a parliamentary leader, in this discussion which, at present, was not urgent, but which demonstrates how dialogue is always important in our political life, even though designed in decisions which, in time, should be discussed and taken. The PSD is a reference party in our political life and with it we must count on both convergence and divergence. We count on its contribution, although in opposition, to respect, civicism, the sense of responsibility and the offer it makes for the diversity of political options in our country. We also have the contribution of the PSD, with the greatest contribution of the PSD, to a democratic culture that demonstrates that the condition of being an adversary in politics is not identical to the condition of being an enemy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is very important for our country and for what extravagants our parliamentary life. We do not wish election success to the PSD, because we understand that the path it has taken has not been the best and the path it intends to take will not be the best for our country. But it is important that the similarities we find are not choked by useless antagonism, futile antagonism and, above all, a despicable antagonism. in this sense, we welcome the healthy change that occurred in the PSD. We know it is a change of method, but we are aware that at nothing it represents a change of policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the relationship between PS and PSD is the one that has always been. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are convinced, Mr Prime Minister, that, without prejudice to the preferential and institutionalized dialogue that the Socialist Party and the Government have and will continue to have as primary with the parties on their left and that they have supported the investment of this government, it is important that, in various areas of our political life and our institutional life, this dialogue be extended to all political parties. In any case, being this fundamental contribution to the destinations of our country and to the consensus, where it is important that they exist, the truth is that this government has given to the Portuguese—and does not lack this qualification! — benefits, income, confidence, economic growth, sustainability factors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This governance has also strengthened the state's external credibility and all this is due to the PS's rice, the government's rice and the collaboration it has maintained with the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Party. It is this path that we have made and this path that we must pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we are working to make Portugal a country of opportunity. We are preparing for the future, and I am sure that in that future the revenues of a recent past do not come into being, from which we must be free, promoting progress, restoring confidence and launching Portugal on a new path, with the confidence and hope of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u48	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u49	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César, I have had the opportunity to say that when things go well, it is not to change and continue what has been done. If, at the beginning of this legislature, there were doubts about the success of the government solution found in the parliamentary framework, I believe that there are no such doubts today. This is a stable solution that fulfills its commitments with the Portuguese, the commitments which the different parties have made between themselves and the commitments we have with the international institutions. But today we know even more, we know that thanks to this change of policy and to that change of government, today we have better results in the economy, employment and even in our public finances. Therefore, if today we have the confirmation that last year's economic growth has been the greatest since the beginning of the century, this is not the work of chance, it is the work of political change that the formation of this majority in the Assembly of the Republic has allowed and has been consolidating. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we have today the lowest unemployment rate since 2004, this is also not the work of chance, it is due to the change in policies that the majority change has made possible and that are translated into the day-to-day lives of Portuguese people. If Portuguese families have more income today, this political change is due. If today there is more trust and companies invest more, this political change is due. So there is no reason to reverse the policy we changed two years ago. On the contrary, there is every reason for us to continue with the change that we started two years ago and that has brought good results to the Portuguese and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we must not confuse the governance solutions, which are at the root of this government's composition, with what the Government has also said since its formation: in matters which correspond to the national interest, which transcend the scope of this legislation or have to do with the very essence of the State, we obviously seek the broadest possible political agreement from the CDS-PP bench to the left block bench. What this legislature has shown is that democracy is not enriched with exclusion, it is enriched only with integration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fundamental themes such as decentralization, which is the cornerstone of state reform, should deserve the broadest possible political consensus, because changes in competences between central administration, municipal administration and the parish cannot occur from legislature to legislature. The negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework or the definition of the post-2020 strategy, which extends to the 30, should involve the broadest possible political consensus. As is stated in the Government Programme, large public investments must also be validated by the whole of this Assembly of the Republic, by a majority who — we have insisted! — it should not be less than two thirds, because one day we cannot see that an airport is a priority on the following day, considering that this airport is megalomanic and then saying that it was an error not made at the airport. The country must have planning, stability and continuity if it wants to realize what our ambition has to be: we have a continuous decade of convergence with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, neither the government's leadership nor the government's guidance has changed. We note a change in the leadership of the main opposition party and a new commitment on its part to a dialogue that we want and which is included in our own Government Programme. We only want it to be a fruitful dialogue, for the sake of the country, because the country needs to have a good strategy after-2020, a good national investment plan and a decentralization that honours the 42 years of democratic local power and can indeed be the cornerstone of state reform. That is what we have said since the first day, that is what we say today and that is what we will continue to say while this government is in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u50	I have the floor to ask questions, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, with the remaining time of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u51	Mr President, Prime Minister, just over two years have passed since this government took possession and the Portuguese know that during this time the country has since changed the relationship of trust that has been created between this government and the Portuguese because this is a government that fulfils its programme, both the electorate and that of the Government. Since the first day that the Government, by the voice of its Prime Minister, has given priority to creating employment and reducing unemployment rates in our country. Employment, employment, employment, employment, has put, and well, Mr Prime Minister, on the agenda. over the last few weeks and the last few months, we have noted that not only has the unemployment rate consistently decreased for values that were no longer as low as those of 14 years old, but also job creation goes beyond the decrease of this unemployment rate, which shows that the active population is increasing and that the number of discouraged people in our country is decreasing, and this is good news for all Portuguese. There is also good news for young people. We know today that young employment has grown more than global employment and that the percentage of young people who do not work or study is lower than at the beginning of the Socialist Party's governance, which also helps us explain the following evidence: this government has managed to sustain the bleeding of emigration to which we have been subject over the four years of PSD / CDS governance. Portugal today has the lowest levels of emigration since 2011, the year in which the right began to rule in our country. Portugal today has a government that bets on the most qualified generation ever and a political power that bets on what is its future. in the last few days, we also learned that social security accounts are of good health, because job creation helps to reduce spending on social benefits and increases contributions to the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u52	The speech is badly decorated!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u53	It is a recipe that seems simple, but the right has not been able to implement over the four years in which it was government in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This revenue is based on three fundamental vertices: economic growth ( we know today is the largest in the 21st century ), more employment ( as has already been said, the unemployment rate is the lowest in the last 14 years) and good accounts ( today we have sustainable social security and a lower deficit in democracy, which beats records year after year ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the revenue which has guided the exercise of this government, which is therefore of congratulations on the work you have done over these two years. This government has also shown that it is on the right side of history when it places as the main priority or as one of the priorities the fight against precariousness when creating the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), which is under way. The State should set an example at the level of Portuguese working conditions, ensuring stability and a life achieved even in the sectors where this application is more difficult, and should maintain its conviction, because it is important that this regularization of precariouss is effectively achieved. In fundamental areas such as education, this government has taken a fundamental action to promote an inclusive public school, which guarantees greater equality of opportunity and where no one stays behind. By virtue of this government, discounts have returned on public transport passes to students who are 23 years of age or under, because smart public policies must precisely promote more sustainable mobility and also a change of behaviour for new generations. By virtue of this government and this majority, it will also be possible from 2018 onwards for families with displaced students to be able to deduct within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) part of the value they spend on their incomes, because these are some of the families who spend more money with their young people studying in the higher education system. This Government supports inclusive youth policies, and that is why it has created, by action of this Parliament, the Youth Participatory Budget Portugal ( OPJP ). It is also a government that supports the lease of young people and therefore increased the allocation for the Porta 65 Youth programme by almost 50 %. [[Don't talk here, talk to the government!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u54	The Prime Minister is not here, he is there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u55	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u56	I'm done now, Mr. President. in recent weeks, this government has launched the roadmap for knowledge and innovation and, after four years of a government that did not have a single idea for the strategic development of the country, it launches a new agenda based on knowledge, modernisation and progress, based on three priorities: strengthening research and development capacity, placing on business innovation and qualifying Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u57	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u58	It is up to this Government to launch this model of sustainable growth and innovation. I shall finish, Mr. President, by questioning Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u59	Ah! Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u60	... about whether young Portuguese people can rely on this government to materialize this agenda of progress and modernity and how initiatives such as the knowledge and innovation road map can help realize the potential that Portugal has for the next decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u61	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u62	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I will reply to you telegraphly, allow me, in order to use some of the remaining time to answer a question, which remained unanswered, put by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. [[PSD protests.]] Firstly, innovation is clearly — and this must be taken over by all! — the great engine of our development and innovation requires the qualification of the new generations. Now, this must begin in the universalization of preschool, but it must continue in the fight against school failure—and it is with great satisfaction that we saw that last year we had a significant reduction in early school dropout—and also in the ambition that we must continue to increase the number of students in higher education. in the last two years this was possible, but we will take steps to increase this possibility, in particular by eliminating measures that discriminate the students of vocational education in access to higher education. One of the key goals we set on our innovation agenda was that in 2030 we increased from 35 % to 50 % the number of graduates aged between 30 and 34 years and that from 40 % to 60 % young people who, at the age of 20, have completed higher education. Then, obviously, it is necessary to ensure that this new generation is not wasted and that, on the contrary, it has good conditions for fixing and staying in Portugal. For this reason, quality employment is the key, because only one job with fair and unfeasible wages gives hope for the new generations to develop their life in Portugal. Therefore, we always say that the question of precariousness is not only a question of the dignity of the worker himself, it is also essential to the productivity of companies, because if companies want to be competitive in the new global market they must have quality employment and, for that, they cannot rely on precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also necessary to strengthen investment in research and development, and therefore we have set the great ambition that by 2030 3% of our gross domestic product (GDP) will be invested in research and development because only with more innovation, more skilled employment and more qualified people are we able to make innovation the great model of our development. I believe, therefore, that what we have to say to the new generations is: when we define quality employment as an essential goal, it is on them that we are thinking; when we define the priority of a new generation of housing policies, it is on them that we are thinking about; when we define the priority of equipment and support for early childhood, it is on them that we are thinking; when we define as a priority the strengthening of public transport, it is not just thinking about the need to combat climate change, it is also a way of ensuring better living conditions in Portugal for all the new generations that want to live here and that we need them to live here to contribute to our country's development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have, once and for all, to be very clear and frank with the country:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u63	Ah, we have, we have!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u64	... we fight the summer fires during the winter, and we fight the summer fires in the winter cleaning the woods, reducing the fuel load and ordering the forest. There is a great deal of work to be done so that the forest will again have a scale of economic exploitation that will effectively enable it to be maintained. Therefore, last year, we not only improved the conditions of creation of the FIF (forest intervention zones) as we created the forest management entities, which do not imply the transfer of property...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u65	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u66	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I said, forest management entities do not involve the transfer of property but allow the lease of small properties, so that they can be exploited on a larger scale. It is absolutely essential that we understand that if we allow the forest to be delivered to mini and micro-property, as it exists today, we will continue to have the same disordered forest and the same misalignment of the fuel mass. Therefore, we must also move forward with biomass plants and, therefore, we must also move forward with the entire programme that we have launched for the creation of the primary network, secondary network, protection lines and cleaning around houses and villages.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, you have greatly exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u68	What about the national forests?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u69	As for the national forests, we have precisely the goals that are defined and that are contained in the State Budget to create new 500 km primary network, restore 300 km of the previous primary network...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u71	I will now finish, Mr President. The rest I am sending you in writing, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u72	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, the numbers coming today to the public confirm what we already knew: the economic growth of 2017, the creation of 300 000 jobs since 2015, i.e. a path of recovery of the country made by a clear option, the choice to recover the incomes of those who live from their work. in these things there are choices and it was the choice made on the left, on behalf of the incomes of work, that allowed the growth of the economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u74	I am glad that it is, and on our part, here we are in a position to continue this work and that choice. I have heard it right now that the quality of employment is essential, and fair wages and the fight against precariousness are essential. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about a measure which is in the Government's programme but has not yet been implemented and which, in our view, is essential for this fight against precariousness. As far as I'm concerned, it has to do with the long-term contracts. The Labour Code, in Portugal, admits the existence of long-term contracts in two situations: when a worker is being replaced that is temporarily absent or, then, when there is a peak of labor, a peak of activity, which requires more workers within a given period of time. Moreover, the rule is that for a permanent job, the contract must be effective, and this seems to me to be a reasonable rule. It turns out that the right, PSD and CDS introduced perversions into the labour code when it extended the eligibility of long-term contracts to other situations, including young people seeking first employment and long-term unemployed. In other words, it is as if young people seeking the first job or long-term unemployed are some kind of second-time workers who may be in a permanent job but who have a long-term contract. Now, to end this perverse exception, which treats some workers as second-hand workers and which at the same time makes it impossible for us to reverse the precariousness that still exists in our country to be a determining factor in the quality of employment. Therefore, the question I ask you is whether the government will or will not end this perverse exception in the term contracts created by the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u75	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u76	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the result of this policy reversal is included in that first chapter of our Government Programme on turning the page of austerity and relaunching the economy, which had essentially three pillars: one had to do with the replacement of income, another had to do with creating conditions for companies to invest and the third pillar aimed at having a new dialogue with Europe to ensure healthy public finances, friends of growth and employment. Fortunately, these three priorities have produced good results: today we have the lowest deficit of all our democracy, with the greatest growth of this century and with an unemployment rate that has already put us at the level of 2004, and we must continue this path of growth and reduction of unemployment, because it is the success and combination of these policies that have been possible. One of the subjects we have insisted on is the quality of employment, because it is not enough to have more employment, it needs to have better employment, and for this there are two fundamental components: one has to do with the fairness of the wage and the other has to do with the nature of the employment relationship. In fact, it is necessary to combat precariousness, both in the public and in the private sector, we have worked on this and we will continue to do so. In fact, it is part of the joint position signed with the Left Block on the elimination of discriminatory grounds such as what it has stated for the possibility of concluding future contracts. It will be recalled that we anticipated the implementation of this measure with the change we made to active employment policies, including the mechanisms of the Youth Guarantee, where funds were used to finance internships and that this practice was rewarded. However, let us reverse the rule in order to create a job premium by increasing the application of these resources when the contract is no longer in time and the worker is integrated into the frameworks. This is fundamental for the worker, but it is also essential for the company itself, because it is not a class struggle issue, it is even a common interest to all for the benefit of an economy that creates a fair and shared wealth for all. We will only have this sustainable growth if we have this quality job, because without quality jobs we will not only have precarious employment, we will have a precarious economy and it is not sustainable. So combating precariousness is a mission, it must be an ambition of all and we must continue to work to make it a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u77	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u78	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I understand that the Government understands that it is necessary to limit the recruitment of young people over the period, because a young person, as a young person, does not have to have a precarious contract and we cannot condemn people, because they are young, to have precarious contracts. If the job is permanent, workers have to have a permanent job, and for that reason, it is necessary to take that exception for the admission of long-term contracts that the PSD and CDS have placed in relation to young people seeking the first and long-term unemployed. This is the only way to guarantee rights at work, all of us. When we talk about the dignity of work, it is very important to increase the wage, and it is important to increase the minimum wage, so that those who work are not in poverty, but it is also important to fight the fear of those who are in precarious circumstances. The dignity of work requires the fight against precariousness and long-term contracts. There is another exception that the PSD and the CDS have introduced and that we think it is time to leave the law, which is, in fact, in the report of the working group we have done, Left Block, Socialist Party and Government. This exception allows that when a new unit with up to 750 workers is created, which corresponds to almost everything in Portugal, contracts, all of them, can be in time for two years. This means that when Sonae, Jerónimo Martins or any other company, however large it may be, open a new hypermarket or a new unit, they can hire everyone in time, for two years, even though jobs are permanent. The question I ask you is whether, too, we will end the perversions that the PSD and the CDS have put into the Labour Code. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u80	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, has been practical over these two years we have fulfilled everything we combined in the joint positions or later and therefore there is no reason, I believe, to have changed that position. Regarding the question of precariousness, the only effectively precarious situation, in the sense of being temporary, unfortunately, is that of youth. But that's life! As for what we have combined, it is not precarious, it is solid, it is concrete, and we have come to fulfill, the Block has fulfilled, we have fulfilled and we will certainly continue to comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u82	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u83	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is then noted that we are going to remove the perversions from the exceptions to the long-term contracts created by the PSD and the CDS, which have made the contract so usual, so erroneously customary, in our country. We hope that we move forward as soon as possible and it will surely be a victory for all those who work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I wanted to draw your attention to something I said at the beginning of this debate. I have heard you talk about the concern about the extraordinary process of regularization of public administration precariouss, which is a process with which the Block is concerned, as you know, and on this matter we have marked an interpellation to the Government, which will take place on 7 March. Mr Prime Minister said that, in April, the competitions would open, he also said that some proceedings were already completed, and he wanted to draw his attention to the following: the Law passed in the Assembly of the Republic, on 29 December, provided that the tenders would be opened by mid-February and, therefore, it was already late, it should have already happened. It adds the problem of workers who, while waiting for tenders to be opened, have not seen the security clause of this applied law and are being dismissed on the way. They must listen, I believe, to the Prime Minister's assurance that there is no delay in attacking the right of these workers to a fair trial and its regularization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u84	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u85	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, in reply to the CFP, has recently summarized the basic part of this matter. The delays are due to the complexity of the process, but what is the result of the law, in my interpretation — and it has very illustrious lawyers on its bench who will certainly follow me, too — is that there is no one whose contract is not extended by the fact that there is a delay in the launch of the competition and therefore the contracts are, of course, extended until the tenders are opened. This standard was thus drawn up in the forecast that tenders would be open until 15, but since the tenders were not opened until 15, of course, contracts are extended because this is the spirit and meaning of the law. The laws are not only interpreted literally, they have a set of elements of interpretation—of course, what is the meaning of the legislator—and what the legislator certainly wanted to ensure was that no one lost their job while awaiting the opening of the competition. This is even the good interpretation that I hope that we will all do, so that the Law will be applied in a uniform way and in the interest of those who should not be harmed by the delay of the services in launching the tenders. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u86	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this problem with the Government on 7 March. I would like to tell you that the Bloc has records of workers who are leaving before the arbitral committees are finished, which for us is very serious and cannot happen, and on the other hand, it also has boycott records from some public administration leaders to this process. I think it would be good if we arrived at the debate on 7 March with some of these problems already solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u89	This challenge remains for the Prime Minister to be able to look at these cases that have come to us and that will certainly reach the government as well. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question about another topic, which is the following: the PSD and the CDS left a financial system trapped, we know that. It was so with BANIF, so it was with the New Bank and therefore decisions would never be cost-free and there are no good solutions or ideal solutions for problems as trapped as those that were left. [[PSD protests.]] But there are better solutions and worse solutions that we have been discussing and the Left Block has never gone out of this debate nor has it ever gone out of hard solutions. We have even proposed, knowing that this could have costs and assuming it itself, that the New Bank should remain in the public sphere because, even if it had capital injection costs immediately, it was the only way to protect all the public investment that had already been made, the billions of public euros already in the Bank while guaranteeing the control and stability of such an important bank in the national financial system. The government's choice was not that. The government finally chose a decision that is equal to the solutions we already knew about the past: selling the zero cost and then we see the bill coming in the future. But at the time, the government guaranteed that this time it would be different because it would have no cost to taxpayers. Minister Mário Centeno said: « There can be no guarantee from the State to support private businesses».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u90	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u91	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. And Mr. Prime Minister repeated that guarantee and even said that the business would not bring increased costs to taxpayers. In view of the news that has come to the public and even the statements of Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, Mourinho Félix, I think it was important for the country that the Prime Minister could now repeat these guarantees and tell us that there is no possibility of the New Bank needing a direct or indirect public recapitalisation in 2018 only one year after its sale. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u92	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u93	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, the state of the financial system two years ago was in fact a state that was hidden from the Portuguese. And to be honest, I am puzzled by hearing, two years later and being the situation frankly different from what it was then, the new leader of the PSD parliamentary board refers to the investment of the banking sector as if it were a toxic investment by nature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u94	It wasn't, it wasn't! Everything in your place!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u95	... but I assume it was a sliding of a star and not a new vision of the new PSD on the financial system as a toxic system in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u96	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u97	The guarantees we have given are the guarantees that have been transferred to the contract. Both the contract and the reality show that the New Bank was not sold at zero cost, was sold at a high cost for those who bought it and need to refinance it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u98	What about the State contribution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u99	Because there was some degree of uncertainty on the buyer's part as to the actual cost of what was necessary to recapitalise, the contract provides that in certain circumstances the Resolution Fund may have to contribute to the recapitalisation of the Bank. But on the other hand, it was also assured by the State that the Resolution Fund, whose allocation is the responsibility of the banks — I repeat, the banks — may benefit from a loan by the State but will never benefit from a contribution from the substitute State to the obligation of the banks. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] from our point of view, we recognize that the State is even generous in terms of loan conditions, in order to distance the view that some have about the financial system and about what the reality of the financial system was two years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u100	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u101	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a loan rather than a state loan on behalf of the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u102	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u103	In fact, I would point out that if we had followed the surely well-intentioned suggestion of the Left Block instead of selling us to stay with the Bank today, what we are lending would not be borrowed, we would even be placing in the Bank's capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u104	It was ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u105	More: what private shareholders had already put in the Bank’s capital, we would also be doing it and there was no loan — I repeat, there was no loan, it was really an investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u106	He was borrowed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u107	And I think, despite everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u108	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u109	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, despite everything and agreeing with Mrs Catarina Martins, in reality there would never be perfect situations. It is preferable for a situation where the risk is on the private side that you bought, even though we have to lend the other banks the necessary funding, rather than having the risk to run exclusively and entirely on behalf of the State, because there is no one helping us. So, we have the loan given, we'll have years to collect it, we'll be generous in credit collection,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u110	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u111	... but it is a money that the State will charge, because the state has a huge advantage over all of us, over all of us, over all companies: it is that it will always be here and that is why it always has the opportunity to come back.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u112	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u113	Mr President, I did not want to end by congratulating the Left Block, which today celebrates 19 years of existence. It is already a consolidated majority, only no longer young, but good luck for the rest of your life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u114	We're still young!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u115	They're bigger now, they have to have judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u116	So we moved on to the CDS-PP. To put questions to Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u117	Mr President, allow me also to begin by strengthening the word I have already given to Dr. Passos Coelho, even publicly, for the full commitment and dedication to the country and today wish him, essentially, the greatest personal and professional happiness, and also to congratulate Mr. Fernando Negrão for his new duties. Mr Prime Minister, in November last year, the Minister of Health reported the announced payment of EUR 1, EUR 4 billion to suppliers by the end of the year - read 2017. This year's budget implementation shows us that the late payment to suppliers has increased again. at the end of the year, it was 837 million in debt, in January this year it was EUR 951 million. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you explain this evolution? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u118	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u119	Mr President, Madam Member, I believe that the Minister spent the morning in the Parliamentary Committee on Health, where he explained this point extensively. from what I remember to have been assumed as a commitment was the payment of this debt in two ways, one directly and the other by strengthening the capitals of the corporate public institutions hospitals to make their payment, which would of course prevent them from being paid on that date because, between the transfer of funds for incorporation into capital, the incorporation into capital and its conversion into debt payments, there would certainly be a delay in time. This deferral has existed, but the objective that is established is effectively the elimination of this debt, either in the first phase of capital reinforcement, which has been made, either in a second phase, which will be made with a word that has already been explained, which is the money from the Banco de Portugal, which are entirely affected by the payment of debts to the health sector. Therefore, the objective is not only the reduction but the elimination of debt, it is an objective that we have and we will pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u120	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u121	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we were then left, namely that the announcement that debts would be regularized by the end of the year was a mere intention but had no substrate to comply with that same intention. So it was a dream, it wasn't in the realm of reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u123	It also seems that what we heard here is that we are now going to begin fulfilling because, as I said, 837 million were in debt in December. It had already been worse, it already corresponded to a slight deterioration, but in January it increased again and that was the question I wanted to ask: then, if we are in a sense not only to degrade but to eliminate that debt, why did it increase by December to January? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u124	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u125	Mr President, Madam Member, as you know, health debt is a debt that has an annual cycle, which starts to increase and ends with a decrease. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] What we will aim at is not only ending with a decrease but even with the eradication of debt. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] And the transfer that is compromised will take place in the first week of March and will allow this debt reduction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u126	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, the fact is that in December 2015 debt was EUR 451 million; in December 2017 it was EUR 837 million and in January 2018 it was EUR 951 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u128	It's true! It's just making the count!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u129	I must therefore tell you that I am deeply concerned every time I hear you say that it is so, that it is normal and that debt is going to be managed and that it is from here to a few days—in this case, from here to a few weeks—that the matter will be settled. It is that in the area of health we have heard this about many issues and if I bring this issue back here, Prime Minister, it is because late debts means lack of quality of service to users. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u130	Another question I had to ask you concerns the continuing care units, where there are debts that have already passed the four months of delay to the entities that have these continuing care units. They are users who are in a much more complicated situation when hospitals do not reach what is necessary to do the surgeries that are scheduled and they are postponed or cancelled. Therefore, Prime Minister, this is not an esoteric theme nor a theme that is being managed throughout the year—it goes up, it goes down! Whenever debt increases, users are patients who see degraded services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u131	They are users, they are patients who see surgeries cancelled, they are nurses, doctors and assistants who are desperate because they do not have the conditions to perform their work. Mr. Minister of Finance, don't smile! In fact, I hope to hear it in the Committee on Health and other committees on these matters, because it is not a matter of smiling, Mr Finance Minister, it is not! The Minister should feel particularly affected by this matter, because I hear reports from north to south of the country about what is going on. Moreover, it is not only I who hear, you will also have to see the news, you will also know that, for example, yesterday, the directors of Faro hospitals were dismissed because there was a pressure to relieve patients because there was no place to hospital any more sick, or for example, that the rehabilitation beds in the south or in Alcoitão are not being used because there are no health professionals. My question—I have already done so many times and I do so again—is: when will health be a priority for this government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u133	Mrs Deputy, 15 in 15 days, the honourable Member is asking more or less the same questions, except for those who stop putting — except those who stop putting!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u134	That's right! It's not a good sign for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u135	I'll start with the last one you put in. Health is a priority for this government since the first day that government began its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] And that is why, thanks to this priority, that not only public spending with health has increased since we took possession as we today have more than 5,000 professionals in the National Health Service than we had previously, as we have more family health units (USF), we have more continuous care beds and, above all, we have more consultations in the USF, more consultations in hospitals, more surgical interventions in hospitals and production in the National Health Service has increased. This is the reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All that happens wrong and that describes here is what we have inherited and we have not yet been able to solve. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u136	It is! That's what we inherited and we haven't been able to solve yet. When, one day, Mrs. Deputies brought me here an example that is, for example, something that is worse in health than you were when you were the Minister, I give my hand to the show. So far, you have not given me a single example of anything that is worse than when you were the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The only example that the honourable Member brings is what was already wrong and we have not yet been able to resolve. But do you know the great advantage between this government and its bench? It is that your bank has already left the government two years ago and, therefore, what it has not decided at the time no longer solves, while we are here to solve what is missing, and that is what we are going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now I come to the questions that the honourable Member had asked before and now she has stopped asking. One year ago, he asked me: « Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you talk about public debt? , and now I ask you: « Mr. The Member, why don't you talk about public debt? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know why? Because, as INE reported today ( National Institute of Statistics ), with the high growth review of 2016 and with the growth of 2017, public debt has already fallen to 125 %, 6 % of gross domestic product. We are reducing debt and therefore you have stopped talking about debt. 15 days ago, the honourable Member was insistently asking me: "But when do you open the competitions for specialist doctors? » Mrs. Member, why don't you ask today when you open the competitions for specialist doctors? You know why you don't ask? Because he opened today's competition for medical specialists. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u137	I'm glad we asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u138	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, allow me a tip: start preparing the next questions, because one of these days you no longer have a health debt to be able to ask. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u139	You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u140	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know what language I speak, but I have just shown you today that, on the subject of health debts, with this government, the country is much, but much worse than two years ago, as it is much worse than it is with regard to waiting times for consultations, the number of surgeries cancelled or postponed, to the lack of investment in hospitals. I can bring cases like, moreover, I have brought, and I will always, but always, because this is my job, that of serious and firm opposition to the government, and that is what you can count on for me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u141	Opposition, it's true. Seriously, I have doubts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u142	Mr. Prime Minister very much likes to talk about production, which is, in fact, a word that I think very inadequate to the area of health, but I know that the production that hospitals do is in the technocrat lexicon of this area. Let me tell you that what interests me is what I hear everywhere, it's the information I collect, it's what Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, even when the evidence is crystalline, stubbornly denying, as he denied right here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u144	As far as health is concerned, you are talking about absolute values. You are talking about percentages of GDP. It speaks in percentages of GDP, because if it were in absolute values it would have to say that debt has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u145	There was no country in which debt would fall in absolute values!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u146	Let me also tell you that at the moment, what you spend on health is 5, 4 % of GDP, when in previous times it was 6, 2 %, and it was already little, but we were in a national emergency situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u148	Mr Prime Minister, I will continue to bring this matter, like all others that are very timely, and one of them, which is particularly relevant to the issue of fires. He has already talked about percentages on the restoration of connections, and I wanted to tell him that the missing percentage may be 5 %, but in these 14 frequencies it is total. My question is: when will all connections in the burned areas be restored? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u149	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of technocratism. I'm talking about what interests the user of the National Health Service, and what matters is whether there are more consultations or more operations. It's a service. Mrs. Deputy here acts simply as a spokesman for the National Health Service's tax collectors. While the honourable Member is concerned about what happens in the relationship between the National Health Service and suppliers — which I am also concerned about — I am concerned, first of all, what the National Health Service does to SNS users. That's a big difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, I have already had the opportunity to reply to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa that ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) is monitoring compliance with the restoration of the universal telecommunications service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u151	Mrs. Christian Assumption, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u152	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, here we are waiting for the ANACOM response. within 15 days, I will ask the question again, if there is still no answer. In fact, it is very useful, because it may be on the day of the 15th year debate that the answers to our questions come after long and long months of asking the same questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u153	Maybe it's that day!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u154	Mr. Prime Minister, let me tell you that my concern is with the patients who have a marked surgery and to whom it is said that it has to be cancelled, and the reason for cancellation is due to the lack of the materials necessary for surgery, because the hospital has a debt that does not pay and therefore the supplier does not provide any more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u155	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u156	My concern is also with the patients to whom it is said to take the sheets to the hospital, because there are no bed linen, because there is no way to pay the suppliers. I would also like to ask you about the matter of fires—and why Mr Prime Minister still has some time to answer—I would like to ask you what is being done for the problem of cleaning the bushes around the houses and villages, when individuals and city dwellers complain about the inexhaustibility of the legislation, since there is no machinery or businesses in sufficient number to be able to comply with the law. What does the government plan to do in this area?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u157	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. in another domain, what training is being given to the 500 GNR ( Guarda Nacional Republicana )? Is it or is it not given in time for them to be useful in fighting fires? And what others are being trained to take their place? What training and what work is being done with the fire department? in another context, Mr Prime Minister, why is it appropriate, since the CDS brings here, tomorrow, another legislative package, this time in the area of justice, which can be expected from the side of the Socialist Party, which so much welcomes consensus, but which so little shows here, in this House, in front of all Portuguese? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u159	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u160	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I should certainly have more doubts than the honourable Member about the goodness of this State building having delegated to independent regulators the regulation of certain markets. I think this is a language that is not technocratic, but of its pleasure. I have many doubts about goodness, but the truth is that this delegation has been made and, in fact, who controls the telecommunications market is not the government, it is ANACOM. Therefore, if these are the questions you would like to ask, I strongly recommend that they call on the President of ANACOM — as I believe they have already done — and put all the questions that should be asked about how ANACOM monitors or does not comply with telecommunications companies. With regard to the cleaning of the bushes, I would like to remind you, who has been Minister of Agriculture for four years, that it should not be remembered — that the obligations which exist today in the law have existed since 2006 — there are 12 years ago. I will not ask you what you did during the four years you were Minister to comply with that law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u161	You may ask!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u162	There is one thing that I say: we will do everything we can to ensure that this law is fulfilled, because none of us, in conscience, can admit that we will have a summer again like what we had last year, without doing everything that is within our reach so that the conditions we can control are different.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u163	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u164	We have not been able to change the climate conditions, but we have been able to change the conditions on the ground, and the minimum we can do is to force the enforcement of a law that has been in force for 12 years and that 12 years is to be fulfilled, because, at both ministerial and local level, everyone has been "washing their hands" of the obligation to enforce the law on cleaning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have done, Mrs Deputies, was to create a credit line of EUR 15 million for any owner to be able to carry out this cleanup and EUR 50 million for the authorities to do so, if the owners do not do so, and the authority can stay on the ground and profit of its income until the owners fulfill their obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u165	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u166	Yes, because the obligation lies with the owners, Mr. You were Secretary of State for Civil Protection and had a good duty to know who is responsible for cleaning up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u167	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u168	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens also consider that after the 2017 fire drama, we must be determined, clear and true with the country. But, Prime Minister, it is desirable that that e-mail which has been distributed massively to the Portuguese by the Tax Authority has only created confusion, to the point of caution, many people have taken fruit trees and many are already prepared to pluck or cut socks. Therefore, clarity was not exactly the characteristic of this information of the Tax Authority. Mr. Prime Minister, what the Greens consider is that the preventive response and absolutely necessary for the fire drama not to happen again cannot be the government to go into war with the firefighters and with the authorities. That will not help strictly anything, Mr. Prime Minister. It is a warning and certainly a caution for which The Greens draw attention. It is that firefighters, given the lack of response from the government to some of the urgent needs they claim, threaten to stay out of the reach of the National Civil Protection Authority and the authorities guarantee that they have no means to replace the owners by 31 May. Mr. Prime Minister, please note: they say they have no funding due. More: They say that forest fuel management companies do not reach orders. So where are you going to look for work? Moreover, they say that these companies are climbing the prices to be charged for cleaning forests and forests. Now, the government cannot simply ignore these warnings that the autarchs are making. What they're saying is there's something that's being impractical. So there's something that needs to be adjusted. It is not that the autarchs should not have responsibility, that is not what the Greens are saying, but there is something that has to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u169	You're being a sensible person!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u170	The government cannot simply shrink its shoulders and tell them: "My friends, make money, save money in other things, but do what they have to do! » No, Mr. Prime Minister, there is something that has to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u171	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u172	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, to those who tell me that a short time ago, I tend to remember that the obligation exists 12 years ago. If today we have the forest worse than we had 12 years ago, it's because, over the years, everyone has ignored what was in the law. If we had started cleaning 12 years ago, it is clear that we would now have less to clean. If we had the most orderly forest, we'd have less to order today. And if we had less fuel and a more orderly forest, we would have a lower risk of fire. There are factors that none of us can control. None of us can say what degree of humidity we're going to have in August, none of us can tell what temperature we're going to have in August, none of us can know what wind we're going to have in August, none of us can know whether we're going to have a typhoon again and today, with climate change, is all much more unpredictable. What can we know and do? It is our effort to put together our sleeves to clean up as much as possible, because that is the risk factor that we can control. to the authors, who said they had no means, I recall the following: the Assembly of the Republic approved in the State budget a credit line of EUR 50 million in order to meet this need. More: the authorities, by taking possession of the land, can make theirs the woody product and all the biomass and also pay themselves and value these resources. More: We have created incentives for owners — a credit line of EUR 15 million; we have improved the conditions for the creation of forest intervention areas so that, in an associative way, the owners will join in the exploitation of their properties; we have created the forest management entities so that those who do not want to sell will have those who rent the properties in such a way that they have sufficient profitability to ensure the cleaning. Madam Member, we don't shrink our shoulders, we've done all this and we're available to do more. however, what is essential is not to be stopped discussing whether time is little or if it is too much. Look, time is necessarily not enough. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mrs. Member, do you know how many fires there were last Saturday?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u173	You are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u174	There were 274 fires in the country! Well, what I don't want is to spend a summer like I spent the last one. More: none of us, in conscience, can agree to spend a summer as we have spent the last one. Is it hard? Of course it's hard, but the sooner we start, the less time we'll have to do what it takes to do. So, what we all have to do is put your sleeves together, put your hands to work, clean as much as possible, keep cleaning up and create the best conditions for improving safety. Security is an invaluable asset on which we cannot be here with hesitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u175	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u176	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I believe that no one else than the Greens has spoken in this House about climate change, about the need to order the forest, clean our forests and our forests, and we have worked a lot to that end. however, Mr Prime Minister is right about something he has said, but it is not really what is being practiced, that it is we all have, I repeat, everyone, to assume responsibilities, to straighten out our sleeves and work. But what's going on? It is the State that passes responsibilities to the authorities to do the work. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u177	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u178	Calm down! The authorities are having a problem: they don't have the means, they don't have companies to do the job. This is a concrete, objective problem, to which the Government must respond. What do you have to do? You have to put teams on the ground for the work to be carried out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u179	And we're doing it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u180	... also with the responsibility of the authorities, of course. however, what the government cannot say is: "Do whatever conditions they have, and we are here to see. If you don't do it, cut it in the FEF (Financial Balance Fund), hunt the fine, and whatever you want. This is not what fire prevention is for! Mr. Prime Minister, what we are asking here is that you do not take responsibility for concrete groundwork. Specific difficulties are being evidenced and the government cannot be irresponsible about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u181	You have to finish, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u182	Mr President, even at the end of the day, I wanted to say the following : in May 2017, I put here the question about the uranium mines in Retortillo. Mr. Prime Minister replied that they were following up and that there was an action protocol that had to be carried out. Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese Government has had a huge difficulty in receiving information from Spain on this matter and the 2008 protocol of action has been completely violated. I want Mr. Prime Minister to say here today, near the white, what is the position of the Portuguese Government regarding the installation of open-air uranium mines in Retortillo, Salamanca, very close to the Portuguese border...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u183	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u184	... and with very concrete impacts of radioactivity, of contamination of our atmosphere and of our water resources. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u185	Madam Member, Mr Prime Minister can even answer you, but it is not now, of course, because there is no time available. To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u186	Mr President, Prime Minister in the coming days will be removed 30 000 m3 of cellulose sediments in the Tejo River, a cleaning operation that will cost all of us more than EUR 1 million. The Minister of the Environment has already stated categorically that he has no doubt as to the origin of these sediments: the pulp and paper industry. And people naturally ask: « So if the cellulose industry pollutes the Tejo because it does not at least pay for this cleaning? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Prime Minister, the Portuguese law provides for an environmental liability mechanism which obliges companies to have an insurance policy for cases of environmental damage. We have already put this question to the Minister for the Environment twice but with no answer. Will the government or will not charge €150 000 in the Celtic licence to finance these sediment removal operations?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u187	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the operation costs between EUR 1 million and EUR 1 million and EUR 200 000 and we will do everything to make up for this obligation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u189	Mr. André Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u190	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have recorded that answer and we take it as certain that it will act. We also want to say that we welcome and follow the position of the Minister for Agriculture with regard to the cleaning and management of fuel and the position he has taken with the honourable Members. Presidents of the House, who appear not to want to comply with the law. Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese have received in their mailboxes a message from the Tax Authority on the management of fuel bands which has generated social alarm, since this information is incorrect. With the threat of the fine, the text of the letter encourages and orders the total cutting of trees, within a radius of 50 m around the dwellings, which is not, at all, what the law says. Now, indiscriminate cutting, in addition to other implications, can also generate the slaughter of trees of species protected by law. Mr Prime Minister, in order to correct this error on the ground, what measures will the Government take immediately to clarify and ensure that citizens do not cut protected trees?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u191	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u192	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the obligation on the cleaning of forests precludes first of all its owners. It's the owners! The state has to clean its forests, the authorities have to clean its forests, the shares of the baldiums have to clean the part of the baldiums, the private owners have to clean their properties. It is essential that this message reaches all and that the obligation of cleaning around the houses 50 m and 100 m around the villages is absolutely fundamental. Then, for more detailed information, either the municipalities, or the Republican National Guard, have been informing the owners whenever they have doubts. There is a number that would appreciate them to fix and that they would reproduce, which is 808 200 520, repeat, 808 200 520 and the Republican National Guard will clarify all interested if the lemon tree should or should not be cut, which distance must exist between the cups of the pine trees or other trees, if it involves cutting grass or only the shrub material, so that the information is as accurate as possible. But I am sincere: it is better to cut more than less, because the lower the risk there is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u193	So it's to cut everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u194	Many people have asked these questions and have come to be clarified. however, there is one thing that needs to be clear: first, there is no new obligation for municipalities that they have not had for 12 years;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u195	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u196	... second, the government is not deresponsibility of anything the State is responsible for doing; third, on the contrary, this time, a line of EUR 50 million was created to support municipalities that have no resources; fourth, it was explained in the law, at the request of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u197	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u198	I will now finish, Mr President. As you will see, I am responding to a question raised by the majority of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, what it means is that Mr. Members are particularly interested in being clarified and will surely sacrifice some of their time so that I can complete the answer. As I was saying, at the request of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, they have changed, I believe that in the budget law itself, the conditions to make it clear that municipalities can enter private buildings, can make their product woody, can make their product of biomass. The honourable Member says that there are not enough companies. But, then, honourable Member, the only thing I can volunteer - and I appeal to everyone - is that we sign every day of the forest, each one of us lending our two arms to help clear the forest. I, for myself, am available. I therefore call on all of us, in a great national mobilization, to clean this up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't have a tracking machine to borrow, but I also borrowed, but I can borrow my two arms. Now that this mobilization is being made, it is. And, above all, the key is to pass the following message: what we are interested in is not the fine, what we are interested in is not the cut-off of funds to municipalities, what we are interested in is that everyone, once and for all, becomes aware of what they have not earned over these 12 years, that is, it is essential to clean up, and it is now, in winter, that we prevent the tragedy that can happen in the summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And for that we all have to go to the clean ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u199	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u200	Shall we go together? Shall we go together? It's just that, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, together we're already four arms! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-28.u201	Mrs. Members, with this reply from the Prime Minister, the debate is closed for the fortnight. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and other members of the Government for their presence. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Thursday, beginning at 3 p.m., and the agenda of the agenda of the CDS-PP, in which the projects of lein.o 783 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ( CDS-PP ), 784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace - Competition, Organization and Operation ) ( CDS-PP ), 785 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ) ( CDS-PP ), 786 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters ( CDS-PP ), 787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law, and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( CDS-PP ) and 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals — the creation of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges ( CDS-PP ). These diplomas will be discussed together with draft resolutions 885 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve the legal diploma defining the cases, forms and terms in which administrative acts may be enforced strictly by the administration, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 4 / 2015 of 7 January, which approved the Code of Administrative Procedure ( CDS-PP ), 1291 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the report on the multi-annual strategy for requalification and modernization of the prison system in September 2017 in plenary of the Assembly and submit a proposal for an investment programming law in the prison park ( CDS-PP ), 1355 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement Article 182. the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals in matters of administrative arbitration ( CDS-PP ), 1356 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reassessment and revision of the Action Plan + Next, taking into account the measures proposed in the Agreements for the Justice System document of January 2018 ( CDS-PP ), 1357 / XIII ( 3 ). — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with the aim of studying the revision of the General System of Contraordinations contained in Decree-Law No 433 / 82 of 27 October ( CDS-PP ) and 1362 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a commission to review criminal legislation, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to study and implement a compliance control system to define the criminal liability of legal persons ( CDS-PP ). Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 7 minutes.]]
