ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. As you know, for your own information, our President, Ferro Rodrigues, will find-CL will be absent in the coming days due to temporary personal impediment. We wish you all the fastest restoration. Having said that, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves to announce the various initiatives that have taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I refer to motion for a resolution No 70 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Establishment and Operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, signed in Vienna on 1 June 1993 in the wording of its Third Amendment, signed in Rhodes on 25 June 2003, which falls below 2. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 806 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Determines the reduction of charges and the reversal of public-private partnerships ( CFP ), which fall to 5. the Commission, 807 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 808 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transitional standard for the application of Article 113 ( 2 ). the Public Contract Code, in the wording given by Decree-Law No 111 - B / 2017, of 31 August ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 809 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Expands sources of social security financing ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolutions 1427 / XIII ( 3 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of investment and health professionals in the Hospital Centre of the Támega and Sousa, EPE, as well as the improvement of access to hospital health care by the population of the Vale do Sousa and Basso Thamega region ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1428 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the construction process of the new motherhood of Coimbra and strengthen the human resources and technical resources of the two currently existing maternity facilities in Coimbra ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specialized and effective public response for intervention in additive and addiction behaviour ( NAP ), 1430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of the conditions for the allocation of financial support by SICAD to entities promoting risk reduction and harm minimisation projects ( NAPs ), 1431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a model of intervention in the area of dependencies with more integrated and articulated responses, as well as a serious bet on reducing risks and minimizing damage ( BE ), 1432/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Castro Daire High School ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1433 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not authorise the placing on the market of the veterinary medicinal product dicyclofenac ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore come to the first item on our agenda, which is made up of political statements. To give a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the World Day of Forest is signalled, this year with very obvious particularities, resulting from the disaster that we are living in Portugal with the 2017 forest fires, which resulted in tragedies that we will never forget. Another feature that draws this World Forest Day in our country is the commitment that we all have to make to, once and for all, generate the necessary conditions to prevent the destruction of our forest. Firstly, it must be stressed — sometimes without account, it seems — that the forest provides a set of fundamental services to societies, with an impact on soil modelling and conservation, on the regularization of the water regime, on carbon absorption and air purification, on the safeguarding of biodiversity, on the exploitation of the landscape, among many other issues. That is why it is crucial to preserve this ecosystem. The problem is that the gradual abandonment of the rural world has resulted, over the years, in the consequent abandonment of forest areas. The rural world is no longer attractive in terms of the subsistence of families, the common agricultural policy (CAP) has cut us the capacity to produce, Portuguese farmers have impoverished and impoverished the rural world. Meanwhile, successive governments, and the last government, PSD / CDS, in particular, have been increasingly digging this problem and have been closing schools, health centers, GNR posts, courts, financial distributions, among many other public services, withdrawing potential to an increasingly empty rural area and less attractive for the establishment of people and businesses. At the same time, the celluloses took account of the forest and made small forest owners dependent on the service to the celluloses to achieve some profitability, and it was in these circumstances that forest diversity gave rise to the extensive monocultures of eucalyptus, removing space from our native species. The National Forest Inventory (IFN) is well aware of the massive presence of eucalyptus and pine-bravo in our forest, but it is unequivocally the differentiation between the two with respect to their evolutionary trend: while the pine-bravo has witnessed a sharp decrease since 1995, the eucalyptus has, on the contrary, witnessed a substantial increase, being the species that has expanded most through our forest. This emptying of the rural world and this unmeasured expansion of eucalyptus monocultures, combined with other factors such as the extinction of important surveillance bodies, such as forest guards, or also with an absolutely insufficient policy of investment in risk prevention, have generated very serious situations with regard to the burning area, the spread of forest fires, the victimization of human lives, which has reached a dimension more than tragic with the fires of July and October last year. The Greens insist that forest settlements are not harmless in terms of the size of forest fires. The report of the Independent Technical Commission on the fires of Great Pedrogon and other municipalities, as well as many other reports already prepared on other occurrences, as well as the report of the Independent Technical Commission on fires of 14, 15 and 16 October, makes it clear that the extensive monocultures of eucalyptus constitute an undeniable trace. in this last report it is verified that the speed of fire propagation is facilitated by the abundant projections resulting from the predominance of eucalyptus in the route of fire and that the fuel material of this species, between leaves and fine branches, is distributed vertically through various strata, forming a ladder that leads to flammable cups, enhancing the spread of fire, allowing fires of high intensity and easy propagation. That is why, in this picture, in areas where there is no mixture of species, the fire spreads more easily and it is visible that in areas with predominance of soar, pineapple, oaks, chestnuts and other leaves the area burned is incomparably—but incomparably—less compared to the burned area of eucalyptus and pine-bravo. This is nothing new, and precisely because it is not new, it becomes dramatic that in the previous legislation the PSD and CDS, having as Minister responsible for the current CDS leader, Assumption Cristas, have approved a system of treery and re-arboring designed for the interests of the celluloses and that promotes the liberalisation of the eucalyptus. This regime, in the face of successive forest fires to which the country attended year after year, was an authentic and profound irresponsibility. These policies of abandonment of the interior and the rural world, of erratic options in terms of forest recovery, in particular in its resilience component, have prioritized economic interests instead of the well-being of the populations and their security and territory and, as the report of the Independent Technical Commission, whose readings will have the opportunity to detail until Wednesday, when the document will be discussed here, support for forest measures prioritized investments aimed at the economic value of the forest to the detriment of the prevention and recovery of fire-affected areas and other risks. The security functions for human societies that forests perform over the years have been neglected for the immediate economic function of the forest. The Greens Ecological Party expects it to be understood that this course has already been extremely disastrous and that it is important to reverse it to create conditions for the safety of the populations, the territory and the guarantee that we do not lose the ecosystem services provided by forests. Finally, Mr President, that is why the Greens insist so much on the need to invest in the interior and in the rural world in order to generate a dynamic that protects this territory. As an example, we have already proposed stagnation of the area of eucalyptus monoculture, we have proposed concrete investments in transport and in the railway sector, we have already proposed tax schemes to encourage the installation of enterprises in the interior,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u5	You really have to be done, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u6	... we proposed the enhancement of family agriculture, we proposed an extraordinary contribution from the cellulose sector that stimulates the deployment of native forest species, we have already proposed more surveillance in our forest areas. The Greens have not agreed to the need to preserve the forest now. For many and many years we have fought for this goal and, at the beginning of this legislature, we have also taken this aspect as a priority on our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u7	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u8	One last sentence to say that The Greens will continue this battle towards sustainability, a battle that needs many followers, but not those who spend their lives saying "yes, but...". The Greens Ecological Party says a clear 'yes' to the preservation of the forest. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can fulfill the allotted times. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Bureau recorded the inscriptions of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u10	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u11	The floor is then Mr Lima Costa, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we all agree that it is essential to have a more orderly forest, a forest that is truly structurally resistant to fire, a forest, as I said, more diversified in terms of species, a forest with more agriculture and livestock in the forest system. These are common objectives for all of us and, with a view to these common objectives for all of us, the PSD presented, including, following last year's fires, many constructive proposals. I recall, among many others, our proposal for the enlargement of the pilot zone of the forest registry to all municipalities that resort to the GEF ( Municipal Emergency Fund ) due to the burned area, our proposal to impose more speed on the Pinhal de Leiria reforestation project, our proposal for the development of a reforestation plan with native species with the administrative support of the IUCF ( Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests) and the financial of the State, our proposal to increase the size of the ZIF (forest intervention zones). These are concrete proposals which, if approved, would greatly contribute to achieving these common objectives for all of us. But if we have common objectives, there is, however, an aspect in which we differ totally, not only from the Greens but from all the parties that support the government. It is only possible for the PSD to achieve such common objectives for all of us in the forest if it meets a previous requirement: the forest must be a profitable asset for forest owners and producers, it must be a source of income for the Portuguese who live in the interior of the country, who live in the forest. Without this requirement being met, none of the objectives that you have set out by the honourable Member will be feasible, because what you are defending — as in other words, the reform of the government's forest — is aimed at withdrawing profitability from the forest. And that's the deadly problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u13	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u14	...of the alleged reform of the government's forest and it's the deadly problem of everything that the honourable Member has announced from the rostrum. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] in this sense, I ask you very objectively what the Greens specifically propose so that landowners and forest producers can yield their land and their investment in the forest. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u15	You have the floor now, Mr Joaquim Barreto, of the PS, also to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the intervention which brings us here today, in addition to making a reference to the World Forest Day, which we all want to celebrate and celebrate, also makes a small approach to the implications of the report of the Independent Technical Commission. on our part, we understand this intervention, in a perspective of reflection and proactive attitude according to everything that has happened around the forest, not only with the depopulation of the interior, but also with the lack of forest prevention and forest management. We understand that this proactive attitude and reflection should also deserve from all of us respect for what has been the consensus generated around the forest. For us, it is very important that there be consensus among government agencies, the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, Government, Authorities, Shareholders' assemblies and all the communities that live around the forest. The report by the Independent Technical Commission, in addition to addressing the issue of the depopulation of the interior, also tells us about planning, management and planning, and there we cannot agree any more. It was the governments of the Socialist Party that put in place preventive attitudes, with the creation of forest slag teams that, at this stage, were already a little obsolete and were re-enacted, as well as with a national plan to combat forest fires. But we understand that the forest should be seen with another look. For the forest to be of all, it must be maintained and preserved by all those interested in the forest, in its multiple space, from the shepherds, the farmers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u17	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u18	... and, therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, regarding the measures being taken by the Government, either in the part of the forest reform, with the reforming impulse, either in the part of what civil protection interventions are, we would like to ask you what the Greens see, in particular — because we, PS, are willing to listen — in order to improve everything that needs to be improved around this important sector, which is the forest sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u19	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by complimenting you on bringing to your political statement such an important subject as that of the forest — even more on Tree Day — the planning of the territory and the defense of the rural world. The CFP follows the Greens' position on these issues, including those concerning the tragic fires, because it is an issue which cannot be separated from more than four decades of right-wing policy. It was a policy of abandonment of the rural world; a policy of forest disorder, of lack of support for economic activity in rural areas and the very abandonment of populations, led by a policy that dismantled public services, which fired workers, which left small forest producers delivered to their fate and voracity of small forest producers and the interests of the agribusiness; a policy that, on behalf of the deficit targets, rejected public investment that was necessary to overcome regional asymmetries and guarantee territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u22	in this regard, the CFP has warned of the risk of continuing on the wrong path, with policies that do not meet the needs of fire prevention and combating fires, forest cleaning and development in the rural world. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, speaking in the forest and in her planning means thinking, on the one hand, the forest we have and the forest we want to have and on the other hand, thinking about who is serving the forest and whom we want it to serve. The CFP has defended the existence of support for producers and small owners. Instead of prosecutions and fine threats, there is a public investment and financial means for the State to fulfil its responsibilities rather than passing blame and accountability to third parties; there is a real policy to support the development of the rural world that serves the interests of the population and the country. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we would like to know what the Green Party's perspective on these matters is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u23	It is the time of Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block, to ask for clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Block of the Left accompanies its concerns and accompanies the accountability of the right-wing policy that promoted the disorder of the forest and, in general, the disorder of rural space. And then, in fact, objective conditions were created so that extraordinary circumstances, which should have been guarded, the fires, had reached the proportions they reached. But now it is important to talk first of all about the future, and the future is the 500 forest slag teams that are promised and that are not arriving, it is the strengthening of the permanent forest fund, which is good but insufficient, and it is also a set of measures that are still to be carried out. We refer specifically to the land bank, which should have advanced and failed to advance, and we also refer specifically to the forest management units in order to promote the management aggregated by the forest owners themselves, whose portage has already emerged about 15 days ago, but a much greater effort is needed to promote this aggregated management and to promote the associabilism of small owners. There is a wide range of areas in which the government and the powers in general must intervene in order to promote aggregate management and to promote the profitability of small property. It is true that it must be profitable and therefore must create conditions, and the public power has the special and unique responsibility to help that small property become profitable by promoting aggregated management. On the other hand, the common agricultural policy is currently being revised. There comes a new Community framework that gives more power to states and gives more power to governments. To sum up, then, the questions that we have asked the honourable Member are the following: what do you think the new common agricultural policy should help to introduce into the management of the forest area and what measures must be taken to strengthen and promote the aggregated management by small owners? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u25	Finally, to request clarifications, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u26	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the topic and the issue of the forest, which, on 21 March, at the beginning of spring, is obviously a relevant issue. However, the honourable Member brought here the report which was presented yesterday, to which she referred, but said nothing essential about the content of that same report. What is more, it is curious that over the course of yesterday we had some news that it was not possible in October to have done anything different or done more. Then we looked at the report and saw that everything there is exactly the opposite of that. So the most important part of your speech is what you did not say.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u27	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u28	That is to say, the honourable Member did not say that there was a total lack of forecast by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u31	The honourable Member did not say that at the time of the fires it was possible to have done more combat if 30 aircraft were not disabled and also did not say that there was a complete discoordination, that part was all that you did not say. If you will allow me, and recognizing that some of the things you have said are relevant, the honourable Member has looked at a small part, has a little bit to look at the tree and, looking at the tree, has forgotten to see the rest of the forest. [[Protests by Mr. BE Carlos Matias.]] The honourable Member has not seen the number of matters in this report. Then, take up a theory that we know, which is the theory of danger, of risk, of the private and the question of the eucalyptus, which has already been denied to you many times—I will not, at least, detail this theory—to forget the public responsibilities, which would theoretically be all good and be true. Mrs. Member, I don't know if you have noticed but the Chairman of the Independent Technical Commission, Prof. Jorge Guerreiro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u32	It's not Jorge! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u33	... yesterday, at the end of his meeting with the parliamentary groups, he said clearly and unequivocally that one of the great concerns and dramas that happened was to have burned 700 years of history, to have set fire to the Pinhal de Leiria.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u35	The Pinhal de Leiria, Mrs. Member, is not private, is not a eucalyptal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u36	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u37	...is a pinhal, it is the responsibility of the State and it happened with this State and with this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u38	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u39	Madam Member, if you are very concerned about the forest and the interior, I ask you why you have dropped our proposal for tax discrimination inside when the government then says that you are studying it? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] And already, we have also read the part of the report in which it is said that the measures taken by the Government, in particular what is contained in Decree-Law No 10 / 2018,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u40	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u41	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. ...you will see that the Independent Technical Commission comes to bring down this great measure of government to protect and to prevent fires, saying that it is completely useless. Can you tell us anything about this, too, Your Honor? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u42	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u43	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Members of all the parliamentary groups who have considered and raised a number of questions about the political declaration which the Greens brought here today. Mr Telmo Correia, let me tell you that the objective of my political statement was not to discuss the report. As I know, we have a scheduled discussion for the debate of the report next Wednesday, 28...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u44	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u45	... and we need to read carefully to discuss it seriously — which is something that sometimes costs the CDS on these issues,... [[Congrats from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...as you've seen about another report. But the aim was not to discuss this report. In fact, it was about taking a relevant part that is related to the forest planning materials, which is a matter that is not expensive to the CDS, and we also realize that. The CDS has this difficulty in catching on the relationship of these dramas that have happened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u46	Nothing happened! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u47	... with structural problems that have been dug up, as I said from the rostrum in the political declaration I have made, and for which you have contributed well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u48	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u49	... especially with the closure of public services within the country and consequently with greater abandonment and greater depopulation of the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u50	We got it right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u51	And you also know that at the time of your governance—and also in other governments, let us be serious, it is indeed so! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u52	That is true in some cases!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u53	... there was a gradual impoverishment of farmers in Portugal and a failure, let us say, of public policies to support family farming. All of this contributed to a very serious, structural problem, in which you do not want to grasp and that is the issue for which The Greens today come to warn this House, the depopulation of the rural world, which has very clear responsibilities in the size and spread of forest fires, as well as the forest settlements. Mr Telmo Correia continues to say that the eucalyptus has no responsibility, but you have never heard The Greens say in this House that only the eucalyptus burns! We never said that! But what you cannot help but recognize and that the reports recognize is that the huge stains and monocultures of eucalyptus have an effective responsibility for facilitating the spread of forest fires. If you do not recognize this, then what do you do when you are in government? Diplomas to liberalize the eucalyptus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u55	...to serve the great celluloses and to unprotect our forest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u57	...not betting on native species and thus on a greater resilience of our forest. Therefore, your policy for the rural world and for the forest was a failure, I repeat, a failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u58	That's why most of the right burned!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u59	And that is why you do not want to discuss these structural problems. Mr. PSD is here to raise the issue of profitability. As far as this is concerned, I am very sorry that you did not approve in the State budget a proposal which the Greens presented — which was, moreover, plunged by the PSD and also by the PS — which had to do with the extraordinary contribution of celluloses to encourage the implementation of native species, just in order to compensate small producers for the lower profitability they could have in the first few years. Now, this was a measure that could contribute to this issue. But there are other measures, including the establishment of criteria by the Government for the fixing of wood prices, thus benefiting small producers and not the major economic interests. The forest is not of the great economic interests, the forest is of our society and of all the components of our society. There are, in fact, ways to give it multifunctionality and for this, multiactivity is needed in the rural world, but also, of course, a diversity of forest species that will benefit, in everything, the resilience of our forest and, consequently, the safety of our people and our territory. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u60	For a political statement, Mrs Rubina Berardo from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u61	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: The year 2017 will be recorded on the timeline of Portuguese society as the year of the greatest tragedies in the history of our country. More than 100 people lost their lives in two different events in time, but similar in the causes. Four months after the country had witnessed, in shock, the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, in which the State failed to help and aid the populations, the State failed again. On 15 October 2017, the State was no longer able to help people and goods. Civil protection again devalued the weather warnings of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), not reinforcing the means of combat, not warning the populations nor coordinating the security forces. The territory was abandoned, left to itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Independent Technical Commission delivered its second report yesterday. This is a committee made up of persons of recognized competence indicated by all political forces. It is this Commission that attests, and I quote: "The landscape of these days, especially on 15 October, has resulted in a situation of dramatic abandonment, with little means, leaving the people given to themselves. Do not keep on seeking. ” This report is clear when it describes unequivocally the many vulnerabilities of the State. I am quoting again from the report : 'In the face of the weather conditions of October, it could have acted in such a way as to prevent what was expected', and also, 'A significant number of national forces was already discontinued, in particular the air resources'. The report concludes that it failed the prevention and programming capacity to minimize the extent of fire in the Centre region, in view of weather forecasts of high temperatures and wind. It adds that the National Civil Protection Authority called for a strengthening of means to combat these fires due to weather conditions, but did not obtain full authorization at the higher level, and the operation of INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) was limited by failures in the communications network. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government was incompetent in the protection of the affected population. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, the report confirms what the PSD has said since the first hour : the failure of the State. That's true, sirs. Members, that the world is experiencing the consequences of climate change in an accelerated manner, but this also means that the State is speeding up its response. Not acting is a resignation of the most basic function of the State. The PSD believes that only by assuming this failure can future actions be improved, whether at the level of combat and relief of the population, or in the preservation of the territory. And it is precisely in this point that I would like to recall the position of the Government, because unfortunately I am afraid that the way is not the right way to go — in fact, to vilipendiate the social communication, as was done by the Prime Minister last week, is not the right way to act on this issue. First, the Government considered that the forest reform designed to follow the 2016 forest fires would be sufficient for the 2017 rural fires, the size and extent of which cannot be compared. In fact, as I mentioned in the report on Big Pedrogon, the Independent Technical Commission recalls again in this report that the forest does not coincide with timely and transitional changes and that it is a collective good. Second, by blaming the forest for the tragedies that occurred in 2017, the government seeks a future de-responsibility of its lack of strategic policy for forest ownership through the management of the dossier around the cleaning of forests. The report of the Independent Technical Commission alerts for the perverse effects attesting to the recent legislation on fuel management networks, published only in the last month, and recalls that the expectation created around the cleaning of the forest is not reasonable or appropriate for the territories concerned. We, PSD, add: do not sell the cleaning of forests as panacea for government inactivity in the management of our forest heritage. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look to the future with the lessons of the past, so that we do not repeat the same mistakes, so that the State does not even fail its essential responsibility again. The PSD is committed, with its soul and heart, to embrace this cause: the defense of the forest, the defense of our people who resist living in low-density territories, in short, the intransigent defense of our entire national territory and our entire population. The country again relies on the PSD to help address the shortcomings in legislation, to give a concrete response to the populations, which are the true national heroes. Following the delivery of the report, we make ourselves available to work together, seeking consensus, and thus we invite all parliamentary groups to abandon the ideological trenches for the sake of national interest, to implement the recommendations of the two Independent Technical Commission Reports. We will therefore call for the presence of the Assembly of the Republic of the Independent Technical Commission itself and of several other entities to deepen the shortcomings identified in this report delivered yesterday. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by welcoming the commitment and deep civic delivery of the Independent Technical Commission, an Independent Technical Commission which we would like to have never been required, but an Independent Technical Commission which sets out a moral imperative for us to act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u62	I would ask the parliamentary groups to be more agile in the registrations for requests for clarification, if possible until the end of the speech of the speaker. at present, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. I would like to ask the honourable Member if she wishes to respond globally or otherwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u63	Mr President, I shall first respond to a set of two and then to a set of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u64	Of course. To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Miguel Medeiros of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rubina Berardo, I do not know well, but I understand that the internal instability of the PSD does not allow concentration in reports because it should not have read the same report. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u66	You're the only one who reads!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u67	What do you mean, Mr. Deputies? I'm the only one I read? No, I don't know if I'm just reading! Mrs Rubina Berardo, we certainly read different reports. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then I'll have to cut the time off, but it shouldn't be necessary. Just wait a minute, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a request for clarification! Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u69	I recognize that, in fact, as early as October, photocopies were still hot in the photocopier, the PSD was drawing conclusions, and yesterday, 5 minutes after receiving the Report, I had already read it. So I think it's extraordinary. In fact, I don't know what the Independent Technical Commission thinks, but if I were the author of a report from these, I would be very surprised that someone in 5 minutes knew what had been written, which had taken three months to build, and had the ability to interpret all this, with the conclusions and in the final way you have done it. But, finally! If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you seem to be the owners of the debate, but I do not want to be the owner of the discussion, I just want to contribute to the discussion, I mean the following: as I said here in October about the first report, I reiterate that these reports are to be read with respect and rigour. We're talking about a tragedy in which a lot of people died.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u71	Therefore, it is not worth and is not legitimate or correct, it is even politically very wrong, and at all levels, including morals, to use these Reports as weapons of political shooting, because the Independent Technical Commission has been able to put itself in place, but the PSD and a certain opposition have not been able to put themselves in place and perhaps it was time to do and recognize what is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Carlos Abreu Amorim and Paula Teixeira do Cruz.]] Mrs Depute, having had, in October — this is written in the report — the biggest fire in Europe and in the world of 2017, and at that time we had the contemporary passage of these fires from hurricane Ophelia, which has increased and worsened, and this is also written in the report, the weather conditions, you refer only to the parts of the report in which the Independent Commission, very well and honestly, refers to the existing failures, but they do not say in what context this is said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u72	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. The report on page 8 clearly states: « In this sense significant legislative instruments are being produced ». You do not say that the government is doing its job, you do not say that the government has done everything that the Independent Commission has recommended and that, of course, it could not anticipate that it would leave today's report.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u74	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u75	So it is not honest on the part of the PSD how this report has been dealt with, and next Wednesday we will certainly see this in the debate we are going to do here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u76	I'll ask you again. Members in favour of being sensitive to the appeals of the Bureau. Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rubina Berardo, allow me to tell you that, in fact, I do not have the ability to grasp the report as a whole after 5 minutes or as soon as possible. I don't have that capacity, I confess.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u78	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u79	However, I still read that 90% of the area burned was bravado pine and eucalyptus, Mr Telmo Correia. You said otherwise. And do you know why 90% of the burning area was made of red pine and eucalyptus? The result of the deregulation and disorder that the woman sitting next to you has promoted while she was Minister of Agriculture. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] On the question of the State, did the State fail in the Pinhal de Leiria? You failed, yes sir, and the first to fail were you, because during the years when you had government responsibilities in the Pinhal de Leiria — and that too — you had 4 million euros of annual income and invested 6 % in the prevention and planning of this Pinhal. Then you failed and the state failed. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]] Has the state failed? You failed, sir. You failed to control a private company — listen, ladies and gentlemen. Members—who, for the second time, is referred to as the cause of the fires, the EDP. For the second time, the private EDP company is referred to as the cause of the fires because the fire of Lousã had a negligible cause and the origin may have resulted from the failure of the EDP to comply with the Electrical Lines Security Regulation, reports the Technical Report that was delivered. Has the state failed? It failed, because it did not control the private as it should have, and you were the first to promote this lack of control, by constantly pointing out the 'fats of the state' and when they dismantled essential services. The state fails, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever you follow your policy of saving resources, cutting services, saving and not allocating to services the financial resources that are necessary to combat fires, to combat forest disorder. Whenever the Socialist Party follows your policy, the government fails. And that was your responsibility. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I see you agree with me and fine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u80	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u81	I'm done now, Mr. President. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to hear that you agree with me. There is therefore a need for more intervention in the planning process and there is a need to strengthen the fight, but there you cannot teach anyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau would also like to follow the debate, but the background noise does not always allow it. If they could collaborate, we'd appreciate it. For an explanation, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u83	Mr President, Mr José Miguel Medeiros, mentioned here the question of what is 5 minutes for PS and what is 24 hours in real life. The report was delivered yesterday and I think it was only for you that it was five minutes in terms of reaction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u84	We do not dispense the analysis of a document that is so relevant to our country, but there is one thing that we dispense: the arrogance of who can read and who cannot read, according to the party. There's no monopoly there! There is no monopoly on this matter. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] In fact, the honourable Member has come here to talk about political use, which is the cassette of'management' on this matter. Mr José Miguel Medeiros, it is precisely out of respect for the victims that we have to talk about this, that we have to incorporate the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, which says at the beginning of its own report that the recommendations you made at the time of Pedrogão Grande have not yet been transposed. Therefore, perhaps, they should have added a second annex to the recommendations on Pedrogão Grande, because this was not included. in this sense, it is out of respect for the victims, it is out of respect for the people who fight to live in the forest in these rural means that we have to talk about this. You don't want to talk about this and you don't have any monopoly. Mr. Carlos Matias, also his vilipendation of private activities only shows that there will be a major problem of greater desertification in the interior and in these rural areas. Therefore, the solution is not vilipendiar neither the private nor the state because we need both to give an adequate response to the forest and the populations that are on the front line of forest defense as a common asset to all of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u85	For a second block of requests for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u86	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, first of all, I congratulate you and I would like to say that I commend you to the Independent Technical Commission and to the work that has been presented. With regard to the rest, particularly with regard to the Left Block Member, I would like to say that I am not guilty and I cannot be responsible for the difficulty or the time others will need to understand what is quite obvious, until at first reading. The question is not whether it took 5 minutes or not, the question is whether the reading we did yesterday — what I did and what Mr Peixoto did — was right or wrong. Now, when we read all the newspapers today, what we warned about yesterday is exactly what is in today's newspapers, that is, we read, read well and read quickly. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You have taken a long time to read and do things, Mr President, if you will allow me, much more serious than it would take you a long time to read. It is that not only have you read how, having been warned and seen what happened in Pedrogan, you knew. You heard the debate, you heard the debate and, not 5 minutes but 5 months later, you allowed something much more serious to happen than it had happened in Pedrogon. You don't react, and it's not at the end of 5 minutes, but at the end of 5 months, you had the ability to react. Mr. Member, it is true that we had the hurricane Ophelia, there were extreme conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u87	Oh, but you didn't mention it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u88	I'm talking now, but, sirs. Members, it is also true that, in addition to extreme conditions, there was extreme incompetence of those who were obliged to protect the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And this, Mrs. Rubina Berardo, is essential because the forecast of ignitions and the forecast of risk was 11 on a scale of 13 — I repeat, 11 on a scale of 13. So how is it possible that you didn't react? How could 30 air vehicles be demobilized? 30 less air vehicles! It is said that it was civil protection but not because in the report—and that I had not seen yesterday but saw today—there is more than that. The report says something...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u89	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u90	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, the report refers to something of extreme gravity: reinforcements were requested, means were requested, men were requested, air applications were requested. And when did the government authorize them? October 16th, after the tragedy and after the deaths. That's completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u91	No, no! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u92	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we are obviously here to cooperate. It was not our fault, contrary to what is intended, that it was not the journalist's fault, as the Prime Minister said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u93	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u94	...the blame was on those who were incompetent, did not foresee, did not plan, did not organize and allowed this tragedy to happen. In the rest, from the next few days we will be here to work and to see the mission unit for firefighters, to see the strengthening of air resources, which is not yet done, because there is still no strengthening of air resources, and the remaining issues. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to count on your cooperation. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u96	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, of course, that on the report of the Independent Technical Commission we will speak when we know it in its entirety. What is more, we have a debate scheduled for next week. However, we already realize that the PSD has an ongoing play, the PSD is seeking to take advantage of the Report to shake « the water of the hood » in relation to the responsibilities it has in the problems that led to the drama of forest fires in 2017. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u97	This is because, Mrs Rubina Berardo, the problems identified in the report of the Independent Technical Commission are not temporary problems, at the height of the fires, there are fundamental problems which are permanently posed to the vast majority of the national territory, because the problem of lack of means or abandonment of populations is not a point problem of the moment of the fires, it is the direct consequence of the right-wing policy of more than 40 years that has led the vast majority of the national territory and the vast majority of the population to that circumstance. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Rubina Berardo, it was not the State that failed, it was the right-wing policy that led the State to the state in which it is today. [[PCP applause.]] What failed was right policy... [[Your government has failed!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u98	... the dismantling of public services and the abandonment of populations, cuts in public investment to meet the goals of the deficit, dismissal of workers and dismantling of essential public structures for support to populations. It was the right-wing policy that failed and led to the dramatic situation we faced in 2017. Mrs Rubina Berardo, it is obvious that the PSD has very heavy responsibilities in this situation and what we were waiting for was that the PSD, once and for all, assumes the responsibility it has in the grave situation that has been created. We are waiting for the PSD and CDS to assume responsibility for the options they have made of forest disorder and eucalyptus monoculture, for the options they have not implemented of the forest prevention and defence policy against fires that have led to their failure to comply with the laws that you yourself have approved, for your options for the common agricultural policy for the destruction of thousands of agricultural holdings that have replaced vast areas of our territory by the upland forest, your options for favoring the dictatorship of the great distribution and the monopoly of Others and Portucel in the eucalyptus or the monopoly of Sonae in the pine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u100	I conclude, Mr. President. The options of the PSD and CDS allowed the breakdown of wood prices leading thousands of small owners to ruin or to the abandonment of their activity and the concentration of public support on large agricultural owners, as well as the option made at the time by Minister Assumption Crystals diverting 150 million euros from the forest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u101	Ask your government where the millions of the forest are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u102	... in the reprogramming of Community funds, leaving the entire region of the mini-fund where the forest is predominant. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u103	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u104	That is what we were waiting for you to do, that is to recognize your responsibilities. And I tell you more, Mrs Rubina Berardo: the PCP Parliamentary Group has 15 Members. With these 15 Members we cannot guarantee that all our proposals can be approved, our 15 Members do not arrive, but there is a clear conclusion: in everything that is positive,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...including in the exaltation with which the CDS loses its grip in this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u105	I appeal to all of you. Members who create conditions for the debate and Mr. João Oliveira to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u106	In everything that is positive and has been approved in this Parliament there is the mark of the CFP and in everything that is negative and in which the problems remain to be solved is the support of the PSD and the CDS to the PS and the Government. [[PCP applause.]] Madam Member, I would just like to remind you of this: in the field of fires and forests we have brought 44 proposals to the debate in the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u107	Mr. João Oliveira, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u108	Mr. President, I am really concluding. As I said, the PCP brought 44 proposals to the discussion in the State Budget, were approved 11, in what the PS converged with the PCP ; the other 33 were plummeted and were supported by the PSD and the CDS gave to the PS. Your responsibility for how many problems remain to be solved! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u109	Mr. João Oliveira, this time I was about to give up. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not resist drawing attention to the fact that we are here discussing our present and having all the galleries in Parliament full of future. If you want to make amends, we'll all be happy about that. [[General applause.]] To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u110	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, frankly, makes me very confused about the fact that the PSD is trying to halt the tragedies we witnessed in 2017, but also about other very serious forest fires that have occurred in other years, structural causes that have an impact on the size of forest fires. The honourable Member cannot accept that it is only at the time of the tragedy, but that it is based on a policy of prevention in relation to tragedies. And because the PSD does not act like this, it is very likely that in Madeira, still about the fires of 2016, little or nothing has been done in relation to reforestation, little or nothing has been done in relation to the support of the slopes that have been unloaded - it is true and the honourable Member knows - and little or nothing has been done in respect of forest planning. So what do I mean by this? Strategic and integrated actions are needed to prevent future tragedies, in order to create resistance in the territory and resilience in our forest. The honourable Member has mentioned the issue of climate change. It's true, it's a question you're there. We have to prepare, precaution and adapt to climate extremes and it is not worth it, year after year, to say that climate conditions have not helped anything, which have brought more tragedy and out there because we already know that we will now have dry summer intensity, with little moisture and very wind. So, there is no chance, Mrs. Member, that will be our reality, that is, these extreme phenomena. Now, if we do not act on the structural causes, particularly on the impact of our policies on the rural world and on the re-enhancing of our rural world, then on the dynamisation, exploitation and preservation of the forest, and if we do not act on the forest settlements in order to generate greater resilience to the forest, then we will once again send our hands to the head to say « to what tragedy». Well, that's what the Greens want to deny. We cannot continue without daring in an effective preventive policy which results and the PSD is in denial of this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u111	Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u112	Mr President, listening to the questions put to me by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen sitting here on my right, it seems that there is no first report. Mr. João Oliveira said that there are parties who want « to shake the water from the hood», but he forgets that it is part of the answer, of the government solution during which in 2017 there was the worst area burned and the largest number of victims. The CFP is part of this solution and this inaction for the four months between the Big Pedrogon Report and the report that came out yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u113	23 proposals have been cast with your vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u114	The gentlemen. Members say that the others « shake the water from the hood », but the truth is that the CFP is the one who does it. In fact, they approve Budget after Budgeting, give a boost to PS and this government and then criticize motions of censure. So it's the ladies. Members who give birth and responsibility are also yours — this is called 'co-responsibility', in this kind of coalition to which it has been called management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u116	In addition, there is a total lack of respect for the victims when they say that some may talk about the report and others do not. In fact, when Mrs Heloísa Apolónia referred to the report very soon, there was a total differentiation in terms of the receptivity to this issue. In my political statement, I said clearly and clearly that it would be very good and necessary for the country to leave the ideological trenches.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u117	Then get out!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u118	Get out!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u119	Today, it has been shown that they do not want to leave the ideological trenches and this is a problem for the sustainability of the forest and the population. Madam Member, we are talking about this. And don't come and talk to me about Madeira. Just because I'm a member of Madeira, can't I talk about other issues? Oh, my God! Is it the monoculture here on the continent? Oh, my God! Do not come to me with the question of Madeira, because I know the work being done there and there is a big difference with this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u120	Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to welcome you and say that I fully support you in relation to an expression which you referred to at the time of the reading of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, which is the extreme incompetence of this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u122	I would like to mention here a number to compare and see what has been done and what has happened in the past. The report refers to the amount of fires in continental territory since 2002 and it can be seen that in 2003 there were days with the same number of active fires but had a very different consequence. This is what we have to look at, too. Therefore, it is not because hurricane Ofélia arrives that Mr. Prime Minister and the PS suddenly can be shielded from the issue of climate change. [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] We have to evolve, it is true, but in 2003 there was, and does not deny why it is true — read the report, Mr José Miguel Medeiros — more than 500 fires a day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u124	We need to respond to this issue with responsibility and with an urgent sense of urgency to the victims and to the population living in these territories. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u125	We are now in a position to move on to the next political statement by Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Best Destination of the Atlantic » and « one of the 10 most sustainable destinations in the world» are the latest distinctions that the Azores have received during this month, which highlight the example of tourism of quality and attractiveness and reaffirm international recognition as a sustainable destination. The Azores led tourism growth in Portugal in 2017 with an increase of 18, 5 % in the number of passengers landed and about 20 % in the number of sleeping places. In addition to this sector, regional production of agri-food products also increased by 18 %, contributing to an increase in exports by 8, 5 % in 2017. As an example, I am referring only to the fact that cheese production represented 50 % of total Portuguese production, about 26 600 tonnes and 114 million euros of export revenue. The confirmation of the economic development of the Azores is also noted by the unemployment rate, which is currently half the rate recorded about three years ago, and by the amount of private investment applied for, which in the last six months alone perfects the amount of 115 million euros. Today, in the Azores there is a climate of economic recovery and consolidation based on the exports of our services and products of excellence, all of which have as their main mark the nature and environmental sustainability. This distinctive brand is reinforced by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), which places the Azores among the Top 10 of Europe's best regions in environmental terms. These are, in fact, excellent news confirming the good development of our region. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unfortunately, what we have seen in recent times, with a communication from some erratic and irresponsible international press, can call into question all this and can cause serious damage to the growth of the Azores. In the last few weeks, news has been reported on a state of contamination spread across the Third Island due to the American presence at the Lajes Base, this situation is far from being technically or scientifically proven. We have seen the dissemination of international news such as those produced by Russia Today on the existence of a 'toxic paradise' on the 'radioactive' island, contents that have become viral, which have reached the main tourist markets and which are reproduced at national level. This is groundless information that combines contamination with an increase in oncological diseases and creates social alarmism on the island and in the region. This news is all less responsible and true. The truth is this and I would like it to be clearly understood: we have a problem, but this problem is located, restricted, it has to be dealt with face-to-face and resolved effectively and quickly, without any opacity, with total transparency, but always, on the basis of technical and scientific rigour. Only technical and scientific rigor enables to defend the best interest in the protection of people and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, throughout this Parliament, we have continuously put this issue on the national political agenda. Whenever we tackled decontamination on the Third Island we agreed our claim for rigour, seriousness and responsibility. We have often been accused of not giving a voice to media alarms, as others have done. But we knew there was a line that for us was insurmountable, that we could never fall into easy, alarming and double penalizing temptations for the Third Island. These false reports are reported with reports of total contamination of the island, contamination of water for human consumption, radioactive contamination, a relationship between contamination and increased diseases. It is therefore important to clarify a set of facts — I repeat, facts. First: contamination is very localized and restricted. This is a timely situation, which is confined to the places where the fuel storage and transport systems were implanted to the Lajes Base, which must of course be resolved, but which does not endanger public health or justify the controversy created. Second: the water for human consumption of the Victorian Beach is in accordance with all national safety standards. All reports of LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ), independent and credible entity, ensure that water for public consumption is not polluted. In fact, it is important to note that the analyses of this water are much more demanding than, for example, those of the water itself bottled. Third : on suspicions of radioactive contamination, and to eliminate any doubts, the study of the Radiological Safety and Protection Laboratory, whose suitability will certainly not be concerned, says taxively that there is no artificial radioactivity. Fourth: as for a higher incidence rate of diseases in the Praia da Vitória, there is no study or since it proves it. In addition, the Azores Oncology Centre presented statistics for the last 18 years showing that there is no higher incidence of cancer cases in the Praia da Vitoria compared to the average of the Azores. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts have been established, it is important to know what we have achieved in recent times. There is a new attitude on the part of the United States of America towards assuming its own responsibilities and the need to work with the national authorities in carrying out these responsibilities. There is clearly a new attitude of this Republic Government towards the former PSD/CDS Government by assuming, on the issue of decontamination, the commitment to work with the US authorities and even to replace them in case of need. I have no doubt that, for all of us, the importance of a global action which guarantees an effective solution to this problem is consensual. Therefore, I reaffirm that for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group there is an urgent need to strengthen the cleansing and decontamination actions; the development of all actions in relation to places whose pattern of contamination is or is not fully known or is not conclusive; that the criteria for assessing the need for decontamination include, in addition to public safety and public health, environmental and future quality; that the measures initiated by the Government are visible, that this process is transparent and public and that it follows a demanding but feasible timetable. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u127	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u128	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We reaffirm that the safety and health of our population and those who visit us are and will always be our main objective. The Third Island and the Azores continue to be one of the safest places to live and visit. This is our main wealth we have to preserve. The PS, as always, will be on the front line in defending the superior interests of people and the environment, the Azores and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u129	The Bureau noted the inclusion, to request clarification, of three Mrs. Members, to whom Mrs Lara Martinho has informed that she will respond together. Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Lara Martinho for bringing to plenary the issue of third island and its contamination. As we all know, there is an American presence on the third island since the foundation of NATO, in 1949, due to geostrategic interest. Portugal, over time and with the various governments, has been a faithful student of NATO and, in general, has submitted to its demands. The fact is that the American presence on the Third Island in the Azores is detrimental to the interests of its inhabitants and the development of the island, and various environmental reports prove it, Mrs. However, I was a little concerned — I do not know whether the PS wants to devalue, either omit or ignore — because there are reports proving the environmental burden that is very serious, Mrs. It is not only the report, which came to the public, of the LNEC which says that there is contamination by hydrocarbons and also by heavy metals, but also — and it is more serious than that — a report, commissioned by the Americans to a company, which has been hidden for 12 years, i.e. since 2006. It seems that everyone wants to omit this report from the governments of the Republic to the regional governments. Well, the truth is that they exist and in this report we can read that the existence of petrol and diesel has been detected, as well as high doses of toxic heavy metals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u131	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u132	I will now finish, Mr President. More: this report states that there is carcinogenic risk six times as much as tolerable. This is unacceptable and very serious. Madam Member, I ask you the following: does the content of these reports confirm? What will the PS do, together with the Government, to comply with the resolutions adopted in the Assembly of the Republic to ensure urgently the decontamination of the third island? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u133	Mr António Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lara Martinho, I congratulate the PSD Government and the CDS on the fact that tourism is as it is in the Azores. It was this government that broke with what Carlos César and Socrates did not want, which was the liberalisation of airspace for Third and St Michael. [[PSD applause.]] Carlos César and Socrates always protected SATA, the regional company, preventing low-cost companies from flying to the Azores. Congratulations to the PSD government / CDS because you broke up with it! Today, we have tourism the way we have and the rates we have due to the responsibility of that government. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, let us see something else to understand: there is unique alarmism and simply because the PS government has not done what it should have done. There is alarm, because the PS government has not decontaminated. As simple as this! Their inertia and passivity allowed this news to happen. We must not forget that it was in 2015 that the regional government sent to the Government of the Republic for the first time in connection with decontamination, quantification in millions and in a temporary way: EUR 100 million for 10 years. Whoever said it was the regional government. The 2016 Budget was the responsibility of the PS, the 2017 Budget was the responsibility of the PS, the 2018 Budget was the responsibility of the PS and of these 100 million euros there is no 1 cent for decontamination. So, responsibilities are those you didn't do! The responsibility is for all those who haven't done it! [[PSD applause.]] More: Do you want to stop alarming? Do what you haven't done until now that alarmism ends soon! It's as simple as this! Therefore, it is not worth creating barriers to smoking in relation to the essential. And the essential thing is total decontamination, the essential thing is not to talk about alarmism, the essential thing is to decontaminate! That's where responsibility lies! No more than that! So, the government, which is negligent and irresponsible, doesn't create a bad image for the island? So, the government, lacking transparency, doesn't create a bad image for the island?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u135	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u136	So misinformation doesn't create a bad image for the island? And above all, the inertia and irresponsibility of the government because it has not done so effectively created this possibility of a negative image. Therefore, the only one responsible is the government, which did not, with complicity, silence the PS bench and, above all, with an Azorian, who is the President of the National PS and President of the Parliamentary Group, Carlos César, the great responsible! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u137	Change PSD leadership but Mr António Ventura is always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u138	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u139	Mr President, Mrs Lara Martinho, be calm because I am not going to say that what contaminated the soils of the Third Island was the fact that Mr Carlos César was president of the PS bench in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Rice and applause from the PCP and PS.]] Clearly, it would be very difficult to find a relationship of cause and effect between one thing and another. Madam Member, since you have decided to bring this matter to the plenary today, we know that, on Friday, this debate is scheduled for consideration by means of draft resolutions, I would like to say that, in fact, our position is that this issue should not be underestimated. The contamination of soils due to the American presence in the Azores and also because of the fact that the US authorities have not so far assumed the responsibility for decontamination of soils caused by their own initiative is a serious issue and must be resolved, but we do not align ourselves with alarm campaigns regarding the seriousness of this situation. In fact, it is a serious situation, it is a situation that requires urgent, timely and appropriate measures to resolve the problem as much as possible, but we do not align ourselves with alarm campaigns because they do not correspond to reality and will give the people and people who can visit the Third Island and who do not contribute to anything — neither to the solution of this problem nor to the solution of problems with which indeed the Azorian society and particularly the Third Island confront. But since the question was put here by Mrs Deputies, I also want to say that we do not share the idyllic vision with which she sought to paint the colours of the Autonomous Region at the beginning of her speech. On this issue, I believe that there are aspects related to the lives of the Azorean citizens who are very concerned about us. On the other hand, I would like to bring a concern that we have with regard to the island of Pico and collective dismissal, announced relatively recently in the Cofaco cannery.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u140	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u141	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. Mr. Lara Martinho, I would like to hear a word of yours about the concern that the workers live at this time given the dismissal announced in that company, which affects the island of Pico and may have deeply negative social consequences for the Autonomous Region of Azores, particularly for that island. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u142	In reply, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u143	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions raised that demonstrate the importance of environmental decontamination in the Third and the urgency of continuing to work on this dossier. Above all, I wanted to convey that we do not deny the existence of contamination. In fact, in my speech, I was very clear that there is a problem on the Third Island, that there is a problem that has to be solved. That is why we demand that there be a strengthening of the clean-up actions, that there be a lifting of all the issues that Mr. João Vasconcelos has put and whose pattern of contamination is or is not fully known or is not conclusive, that the analyses be made and that the necessary actions be defined and implemented in a timely and visible manner and, above all, that there be greater information and transparency in all this dossier and in all these actions. I fully agree with the honourable Member of the CFP when he said that we cannot underestimate this problem — in fact, we do not underestimate and value this issue is reflected in the fact that we have brought this issue to today's political declaration. I also support the concerns which you raised on the island of Pico. It is a subject that has been very closely followed by the regional government and we hope that it will be able to resolve within a short time. Mr António Ventura spoke of alarms, inertia, etc. Mr President, you are indeed the face of this alarm in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] Yes, sir! It is the face of this alarmism and the impact and the serious consequences it will have for both the Third and the Azores. [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] The honourable Member is constantly talking about an environmental cleaning and conversion programme and forgets that this programme was presented to the former PSD/CDS government, which rejected it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u144	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u145	The former PSD/CDS Government rejected this programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u146	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u147	He refused, yes! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u148	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u149	This document was submitted at the beginning of 2015 and rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u150	Try it! Try it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u151	You've been rejected, yes sir! He was rejected and nothing was done!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u152	The honourable Member knows it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u153	I must confess to you that during the four years that the PSD/CDS government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u154	Mrs. Deputy, I would ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u155	I will finish, Mr. President. All this situation of third island contamination was well known by the previous PSD/CDS government... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u156	...that you have done nothing, Mr. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u157	For a political statement, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financing of independent bodies of artistic creation and dissemination through the Directorate-General for Arts is one of the most important mechanisms of the State to ensure the constitutional right of access to culture. The financing of artistic production is crucial for the cultural life of the country: it allows us to produce the works of art with which we learn about the world, that remain in memory and that help us build what we are. They are the structures of creation spread across the country, often working with children and young people, who seek new ways, experimenting and reinventing languages, producing qualification and citizenship and which we so often applaud when they are recognized. Unfortunately, funding is insufficient and irregular. Chronically inadequate and irregular because the holding of tenders, given the successive delays, does not allow the structures nor fulfil their respective timetables, nor do they escape the precariousness resulting from the stagnation to which they are often condemned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has announced the change in the model of competitions in order to correct well-identified problems. The intention seemed good, the sector collaborated and expectations were high. The result was a disappointment! There are three fundamental problems for us, the first of which is underfunding. I said that in the debate on the State budget, we repeat that now: it is not possible to fulfil the State's obligations towards culture with minimal, almost residual budgets. In the case of the arts, even with the increase of one and a half million euros, announced yesterday by the Prime Minister — which is supposed to be intended for multi-annual tenders under consideration and not yet knowing how it will be distributed — even with that increase, the value of the support remains still EUR 3 million below the 2009 reference values. He acknowledged the Prime Minister that the word for the contest, and I quote, "it was still short of the dynamics of Portuguese society" and that the reinforcement serves to ensure that, and I quote again, "that capacity for creativity is not frustrated". Although insufficient, the reinforcement is welcome, but it is obvious that it results primarily from the indignant mobilization of the creators whose expectations were disappointed. An example of this is an unprecedented communiqué, which in 24 hours brought together more than 500 actors in a sign of repudiation by the situation created. The second problem is that of competitive delays. We are in March and structures that pay wages, rents, light, that have suppliers, commitments with theaters, museums, festivals, schools, they do not yet know whether they will have funding. It is concerned and the public service that they guarantee is suspended, because that is what this is about: public service. The Left Block drew the attention of the Government and called on the Minister of Culture. A bonus credit line was then announced so that the structures could keep the doors open. The measure may not even be bad, but it has one exception: whoever resorts to it is indebted or even more indebted. The third problem is inherent in the model itself. The competitions of the Directorate-General for Arts are directed, by law, to independent structures. Now, in this model, there are things that have not changed and, in our view, they should have changed. They continue to have to compete with the same competitions independent artistic creation structures and programming structures, including public theatres, which creates a perversion into the system. The preliminary results, now known, confirm this: the greatest support goes to municipal theatres, which compete through associations created and directed by the municipalities, in a cheating consented by the guardianship. For example, in the case of competitions for structures working with artistic crossings, more than half of the amount available for the North region was attributed only to one entity, which is programmer of a municipal cultural centre. The amounts allocated to self-employed persons are, after all, allocated to authorities which thus transfer the financing obligations of their own structures to the central State. This reduces not only global financing for the arts, but also the plurality of creation with negative reflections in terms of the use and access to culture. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, correcting the model in good time is impossible; however, brushing the shoulders is not an option. So let's make choices. Which ones? Immediately and so that yesterday's and today's mistakes do not turn the near future into a sad reconfiguration of the artistic fabric — i.e. by closure, bankruptcy or failure of structures and creators — the support for the arts must at least be strengthened at the level of funding for 2009, i.e. EUR 19, EUR 8 million. On the other hand, and already, the process of correcting the mistakes of the new model is initiated to launch the next contests in an appropriate time. Finally, in the State Budget for 2019, the urgent path is made, which takes so long in the direction of the budget for culture to approach the decency of 1 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u159	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. With the signs of economic recovery, the underfinancing of the arts seems more an option than a necessity. The mistake needs to be corrected. The Left Block wants to be part of the solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u161	To ask for clarification, four Mrs were registered. Members and Mr Jorge Campos will indicate to the Bureau, through their parliamentary leader, that they want to respond to groups of two by telepathy. Let's start with the first request for clarification, which is up to Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u162	Mr President, Mr Jorge Campos, I must say that I have no doubt about your concern about the arts, culture and support of the arts, but I also do not know how to understand the position of the Left Block as regards this and, indeed, other matters. I know that the realpolitik has reasons that the reason does not know, but I would remind you-CL-it would -just a few statements by the government, either by the Left Block or the PCP, or particularly by the leader of your party during the discussion of the State Budget for 2018. He said, of course, that the Government, in the words of the Prime Minister, recognized that the Budget, as far as culture is concerned, was insufficient. On the other hand, we heard, day after day yes, day no, that the page of austerity has already been turned. It has already been turned to many areas, but certainly has not been turned to the area of culture. Then the Left Block and the PCP in their speeches continue to point out that they will demand 1 % of the Culture Budget when they do not claim 1 % of GDP (gross domestic product), but all this seems to have been forgotten when you made this agreement—I apologize again — of management. Thirdly, and with regard to the current budget, which was 2017, the Left Block Coordinator, Catarina Martins, said that the budget for culture was « shamefully low » — I will repeat, « shamefully low ». But that, sirs. Members have not prevented them from making the State budget available for 2018. However, when we consider that there is a budget which is « shamefully low», we are not in a position to make it possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u163	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u164	Because you said that we can't hold our shoulders and that the Left Block wants to contribute to an improvement, let me say, Mr, that the State budget came into force two months ago and that you know something called law-work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u165	Mrs Teresa Caeiro, has greatly benefited from the distraction of the Bureau and, therefore, was grateful that it would end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u166	No, Mr. President. The Bureau and the Assembly clearly benefit from my continued distraction. [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u167	Absolutely, Mrs. Deputy. I completely agree. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Nevertheless, Mrs Deputy, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u168	The Bureau and the Assembly are constantly benefiting from my distraction. Let me then, Mr President, give only three examples of CDS initiatives that were rejected by the Left Block during the discussion of the State Budget for 2018, in particular a national plan for the development of the arts and culture in which the Socialist Party voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u169	Madam Member, don't hurt me, but I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u170	The CDS presented a proposal for an amendment on Opart, because EUR 2 million and EUR 400 thousand had been withdrawn from that body, and the Left Block did not follow this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u171	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u172	Finally, Mr. Deputies, it is worth redemption. But late came this redemption, because you made this State budget viable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u173	Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Jorge Campos and congratulate the Left Block on bringing culture to debate and even because it is a sector that has practically disappeared from government action. In fact, one of the great flags of this government, the Ministry of Culture—it seems to be closed for works and to compel Mr. Prime Minister to come to deal with the things of culture, to act as Minister of Culture, as we saw yesterday as Mr. Prime Minister announcing more money for the arts, as if the Ministry's inaction were resolved with these undisclosed announcements. Moreover, to announce, in time of so much encouraged economic growth, a total value still far below the 2009 values, as the honourable Member mentioned, when, with the crisis, the Government of the Socialist Party then started the first cuts in support of the arts. And this at the very moment when the sector lives — indeed, it survives — a dramatic situation, first, with the successive postponement of the opening of the competitions and, however, with the effective interruption of any support for artistic structures. This is the case in the arts, it is so in cinema and audiovisual, due to the inability of dialogue, the lack of funding, the postponement of competitions, the lack of transparency in the process of regulating the law of cinema, all this, to use an expression of the association of producers, with disastrous consequences for the sector. But it is also so in the heritage, as is happening with the rehabilitation of Mafra lanes, for example, as we saw this week, in which there was a contest launched in 2015, money secured and in which it anticipated the completion of the work in 2017. Since then this government has not obtained a visa from the Court of Auditors until it has been required to publish a new office last week, returning two and a half years later to the starting point. It is also in the area of communication that the Ministry of Culture also protects. this month, the ERC, the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, announced that it does not even have the conditions to make its plan of activities and budget for 2018, because the Ministry of Finance — where have we heard this? Oh, my God! — captured EUR 3 million of the amounts that had been transferred by the National Communications Authority. I would like to end by congratulating, once again, the Block on the Left for bringing this issue to debate and asking, honourable Member, whether the Block on the Left, within a few months, at the intervals of the criticisms it is going to make, will be adopting another State budget, as approved by the previous three, and, in practice, to guarantee the proven failures of the cultural policies of this Government and this underfunding, contrary to the official speech which you have denounced today. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u175	To reply, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u176	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions raised by Mrs Teresa Caeiro and Mr José Carlos Barros and, from now on, I would also like to thank the time when Mrs Teresa Caeiro here has provided us with humor, which is always welcome and which establishes an easier relationship between us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much! Having said this, Mrs Deputies, it is true that the budget of culture is low, but we are here dealing with support for the arts, support for competitions for the arts, we are not dealing with budget allocations, for example, for Opart, are different things. We are dealing with creation, and that is what we are turning on. in this sense, the criticism we make to the government is very clear and it is the criticism of always: we believe that these budgets are very low, that they must improve, must be increased. It is in this sense that our political action develops. Mrs Teresa Caeiro and Mr José Carlos Barros, we know that there are no political solutions to the right in this matter. There isn't! We have a dialectical relationship, if you want, either with the Socialist Party, or with the Portuguese Communist Party. This is the basis of our understanding. We have convergences in certain areas and in relation to others we have openly discussed the issues. But there is one thing we never do, Mr and Mrs Deputy: we do not sign anything cross.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u177	Nothing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u178	What we do is we discuss matters and see whether or not we reach a consensus. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of curricular policy, I believe that you are not well placed in the photograph, excuse me for telling you. Mr. José Carlos Barros, I am sorry to say the following: there are people in your party who have the highest responsibilities they have given, for example, municipal theatres to a single theatrical agent. Is that a cultural policy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u179	Rui Rio! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u180	Mr. Deputies, there is a person highly placed in your party who, for years on end, did not speak to cultural agents of the city where he was.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u181	Rui Rio, again!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u183	in this regard, we are fully aware of the difficulties we have, but we know that we have a dialogue relationship with our convergence partners in this government solution. And that's where we're staying, and we're not hurting ourselves, Mr. and Mrs. Deputies! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u184	Mr. Jorge Campos, there was a delay in counting time. A few days ago, I wrongly pressured the honourable Member — and that is why I am sorry — but certainly in the next answer, he will continue to be equally contained and will therefore be successful. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mr Jorge Campos for his communication and political statement. In fact, it puts on the agenda a fundamental issue and now, in response to the first requests for clarification, puts precisely the terms in which the relationship between the Socialist Party and the parties that support the Government works: clearly, transparently, with sharing objectives and with achieving what is possible. It is therefore surprising to hear interventions, such as that of Mr. José Carlos Barros, who recently noted the idea that there seems to be a hiatus in cultural activity born from 2015 and that, in fact, radio and positive times were those between 2011 and 2015. As if it had not been the period when even the dignity of the Ministry of Culture the government disappeared. Mr President, what is somehow strange is not Mr Prime Minister taking on an important reinforcement of EUR 1, EUR 5 million in cultural policy — that is positive and we should welcome Mr Prime Minister for doing so. Strange is the former Prime Minister, who assumed that culture was not devalued, because it was protected directly by him—it was what he claimed at the time when the Ministry of Culture disappeared—he did not once take a position to safeguard the presence of the Mirós in Portugal to avoid the sale of Crivelli, to ensure the financing of the culture, to ensure the maintenance of the heritage. This, yes, is a absent Prime Minister and a Prime Minister who has systematically devalued culture over the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this context, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we can look, for example, at the heritage and check the place where Mr. Prime Minister made this announcement: when, precisely, he returned to the Country The announcement, by Álvaro Pires de Évora, an investment that the State has made. Just as he made an investment in the purchase of the works of Vieira da Silva, as well as guaranteed the presence of the Miró collection in Portugal, as he guaranteed the exhibition of the New Bank Collection, as he has done—as he says—the placement of funds for the recovery of rails in Mafra will finally complete the construction of the Aid Palace—all concrete measures that value the heritage and which, together with the Revive programme, have put culture back on the agenda. In order not to abuse Mr President's patience and indulgence, I shall immediately turn to the question. The honourable Member pointed out three important aspects of the problem of the financing of the arts in particular. We agree that the funds are still insufficient, they are unsatisfactory, we still have a lot to do, but what we think we should and can value is that the path is not done all at once, and the path has been made. It stressed only the following: the global budgetary reinforcement for the support of the arts in the last two State budgets led to the 2018 values exceeding those of 2011 and the goal we jointly set, when we signed a common position on this matter, was that in 2019 it would exceed 2009. It is well referred and today it is even more well referred because we will not only have the increase of 25 % but of 37 % following the announcement by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u186	Mr. Deputy, you were asking me to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u187	I will finish, Mr. President. In particular, as regards one of the aspects he referred to, I believe that in the new programme of the arts, the cause of the delay in the competition was precisely that, in other words, for the discussion to be part of the competition had to start late — not in June but in October — which will be compensated in future competitions. My question is about a question which has raised about the municipalities, and this, yes, is an issue that needs to be discussed here. It is that if, on the one hand, it is important and we want the municipalities to...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u188	Mr President, the time has already gone by far, so I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u189	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. With the indulgence of a little while ago, I will conclude. As I was saying, if we want municipalities to participate and value their investment in cultural creation, we cannot also close the door to the possibility that they are co-participants and co-financers. Therefore, the question that raises has a problem and can have a negative side effect, which is that, when we completely close the door to the possibility that there are municipal structures that compete,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u190	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u191	... we may risk having even less public funding from public entities that are available to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u192	Mr Ana Mesquita, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u193	Mr President, Mr Jorge Campos, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this opportunity to discuss the current situation in the arts in our country and to say the following: PSD and CDS have done here an authentic whitening exercise in relation to your responsibilities in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u195	And let's say why. When they ask for the position of the other parties in relation to the approval of the State budget for 2018, they recall what they did, which was not to enable the proposal of the CFP, which defended precisely the strengthening of the support for the arts in the State budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u196	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u197	And did you or did you not make it possible for the State Budget to 2018? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u198	They did not make this proposal feasible, nor did they make the CFP proposal possible in order to take concrete steps to devote 1% to culture. So now they have no legitimacy to come here to say that money is not enough, because, more than once, they had the opportunity to do the opposite and they did not. That's the point! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u199	But have you made the Budget possible or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u200	Mr Jorge Campos, the truth is that, in order to cover all eligible and unsupported applications only in 2018, there would be only EUR 2 million, and we are talking only now about the reinforcement of EUR 1.5 million. However, in a total of four years, for this same universe, about EUR 5 million would be needed. Therefore, we are still far below the actual needs of the sector in this area. We would also like to remind the jury of the competition in the area of Disciplinary Crossings, where it says that, and I quote, « The Commission considers that, in view of the quality and diversity of applications submitted for tender and the amounts requested for support, the determinations entered in the notice of opening for financing(...) are insufficient ». Our question, Mr Jorge Campos, is this: shouldn't we now be talking about those which were the concrete proposals of the CFP to improve this situation by now this year and be on a much earlier footing in this chapter of support for arts and culture, to go much further and much faster? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u201	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u202	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Basically, we have subject matter in which there is a common denominator and we have subject matter in which there are also differences. To be discussing amounts is important because, of course, the level of funding determines the policy that is followed and basically determines what we think is essential, which is to ensure the conditions for the structures to function. It is because the structures obey and are obliged to respect certain obligations: they pay rents, they have to schedule, hire, pay artists... All this obliges there to be, at the start, a guarantee that these funds will not be missing. Now, the successive delays have rightly led to these things being called into question. Of course, the government — and I am not saying it is bad — has now made a bonus line of credit. It is not bad for us, the problem is that many structures already heavily indebted will become even more indebted if they use these lines of credit. It is against these deadlines, against this delay of deadlines and these successive delays that we have to rise because, in practice, if we check the budgets for the culture of the Socialist Party and on the right, it is clear that there is a progression, but it is also clear that this progression is far from what we would like it to be, so much more so that, in this political solution, there are three or four left parties, of which, as it is evident, would be expected a more extended agreement to boost this area, which is decisive, as you know, for innovation, for knowledge, for citizenship and for democracy. So, in this respect, we have a difference. I understand that there is a lot to do and that we cannot do everything, the way is going, but, Mr President, I think we are walking very slowly, very slowly. The honourable Member spoke about the issue of municipalization, which is important, but what happens when these competitions are open to municipalities and at the same time to self-employed people? It happens that municipalities create structures to compete with this money and, therefore, they will seek the state, i.e., the Budget—and the municipalities are also state — money that they themselves should spend on maintaining the bodies they protect. Thus, for example, some of the main structures in the north of the country, some of which were classified for years by wire, first of all, this year were left out. Why? Because there was a structure, a large municipal structure that crammed half of the Budget. These are, therefore, matters to which we should pay the greatest attention. Mrs Ana Mesquita, I am also grateful for your question, which is entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u203	Mr Jorge Campos, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u204	Of course, Mr. President. We voted in favour of your proposal, as you know, that it was a proposal that seemed just right to us because it was directed to a vital sector, which was the sector of creation. I will reply very quickly, because I do not have more time, but I just want to say the following: if there is not this "ferment" of the creators that allows us to look at the world in another way, we can hardly transform it. That is why we attach so much importance to supporting the arts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u205	Mrs. Members, we follow the political declaration of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr João Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the second time, since the beginning of this Parliament, that national defence is at the heart of the political debate in plenary session, at our request. by placing the defense in this plan, the CDS again draws the attention of the country to the need to interrupt the cycle of lack of investment in our Armed Forces — a structural and inalienable pillar of the state. Let me therefore return to an issue which, although the Socialist Party and the Government are reluctant to try to delete, the CDS does not forget — the incident of Tanks. The issue that we raised here in September last year continues to stand. If it had not been fortunately given the circumstances of the material stolen in Tanks, we would not have known what was there or what would have been actually stolen. Two hundred and sixty-five days after the attack of Tanks, and following the results of the investigations carried out by the Ministry of National Defence, I ask Mr. Members: what political consequences have resulted from this process? None of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u208	We all remember that those responsible for the internal security system and the SIRP ( Information System of the Portuguese Republic ) said in the National Defence Commission only to be aware of the theft of Tanks 24 hours later and, more serious than that, by social communication. As it is equally serious that only 48 hours later has been called the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit ( UCAT ). My question is: what mechanisms have been developed by the government to improve the cooperation and coordination between the security forces and the security services and the structures of the Ministry of National Defence and to ensure that this situation never occurs again? None! No action! We know and understand the principle, so abundantly stated, to justice what is justice and politics what is politics. But it is precisely because we are not confused with one another that we are surprised that the government is just waiting for the outcome of the judicial inquiry to remove the proper consequences. We agree with the bans on exit for 15 days and aggravated reprehensions on four sub-altern military personnel seem to be manifestly little in view of the severity of the incident. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u209	And what is truly extraordinary now is to see a minister who has been reduced in his political authority and injured in his institutional credibility, after the successive jokes he has given himself and the numerous responsibilities that he has ruled out, during this process, to extend, delay and delay the sending of a report of greatest importance to Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As Mr President of the Republic pointed out 15 days ago, it has not been possible until now, and I quote, "to identify fully who and how he acted, as well as the possible causal link". For us, 265 days after the assault on Tanks and 154 days after the re-appearance of stolen weapons, the responsibilities remain to be resolved. And therefore the CDS will not exempt itself from the regulatory mechanisms it has for the full realization of the truth. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Having said this, the balance sheet that the CDS makes for these two and a half years of governance is obviously negative with tanks on its head. If, for us, health is the poor relative of this government, national defense is orphaned. It would be very important for the Government to clarify the country's options for two absolutely nuclear areas for the operationality of our Armed Forces. First, recruitment and number of staff. This is, for us, the most worrying area. After the disclosure of a memorandum, signed by the former Chief of the Armed Forces Staff ( CEMGFA ) and the heads of the three branches, addressed to the Minister, pointing to a limited situation to be reached in the Armed Forces at the level of human resources, the CDS-PP automatically requested the hearing of the former CEMGFA and the Minister of National Defence. In our view, expressions such as, and I quote, "inequity", "not negligible risks of missions" or "deficiency known in the Armed Forces" do not deserve to be ignored or devalued even if they are later relativized by the Minister. And contrary to what has already been expressed by PS Members in parliamentary hearing, this is not an exaggeration of the CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not regard statements by military leaders as concerns of any trade union or professional association. Last week, it became clear to us, after hearing the Minister, that the government, in this matter of recruitment, is drifting. It's a government without a strategy, it's a government without a vision, it's a government without a project. Numbers do not deceive: in six years there was a reduction of more than 25% in the structure of the Armed Forces. There is no record of any State institution which has suffered so much the effects or consequences, some conjuncural - it is true! — and other policy options. This should, on our part, merit a deep reflection on the treatment we are giving to the Armed Forces. For four years, when we were in the government, we heard the Socialist Party as an interpreter of the "dissatisfaction of the military"; to denounce the "disturbation" inflicted on the Armed Forces; to identify up to — imagine! — apparent ‘risks’ of non-operationality. Now, we have a story as worrying as an alarmist on the part of the military leaders, and what does the PS do? It devaluations, whistles to the side, as if it were nothing with you. Now, I remember that over the past 13 years, the Socialist Party has ruled for 9 years and is responsible for a decrease of about 6700 military. In the last two years alone, it has been more than 2000 the military that the armed forces have lost and at a time when Mr. Prime Minister has not been tired of highlighting the country's economic recovery. Don't cease to be curious that this recovery has no reflection in our Armed Forces. A second area concerns the re-equipment of the Armed Forces. After countless announcements of opening tenders for the three branches — 4x4 armoured vehicles, light weapons, drones, light helicopters — two years later, none of these equipment saw its award completed. It is about EUR 100 million of investments announced and not implemented. Misleading advertising! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u210	In addition, the revision of the Military Programming Act, which is approaching, will require the strengthening of funds for vital re-equipment programmes for the Armed Forces, including the replacement of C-130 and the completion of the constructions of the ocean patrol vessels ( NPO ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u211	Mr. Deputies, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u212	Very little is missing, Mr President. I'm gonna finish and I appreciate the tolerance. The assumption of new commitments by the Portuguese State within the framework of the European Union and in the framework of fire prevention and control actions is not compatible with such negative alerts and prospects identified by the military leaders. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of so many difficulties, hardships and obstacles to the military institution, it could not fail to finish this intervention without highlighting the exemplary performance of women and men serving our Armed Forces, whether on the continent or on the islands, in the national forces highlighted or in technical-military cooperation, whether at sea, in the air or on land. They honor Portugal! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u213	Mr President, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u214	Mr. President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u215	You then have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u216	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr João Rebelo and stressing the relevance of the subject which he brings us here. National defence issues are not usually at the forefront of the priorities of our parliamentary work, but they are absolutely fundamental and decisive, because they are a sovereign function. And, as a sovereign function, there is usually some sort of consensus between parliamentary groups in order to support the Armed Forces in the irreplaceable role of their missions. The honourable Member has told us about three issues which he would consider to be absolutely inconsequential in matters of national defence in recent times. First of all, he referred to the theft of military material in Tancos. This theft, regardless of the judicial conclusions that are under way, shows itself from a political point of view as a sort of Raúl Solnado rabula, the famous Solnado war, not only because of the circumstances surrounding the theft of the war material, but also, above all, its recovery. But I would like to focus mainly on the other issues of recruitment and the number of effective men and women and the re-equipment and the Military Programming Act precisely on the role of the Armed Forces, on the so-called 'double use of the Armed Forces' in addition to their pure military mission, i.e. their mission to assist in the fight against disasters. The year 2017, as we all know, was particularly tragic in this respect. The report which was presented yesterday by the Independent Technical Commission, again, as it did for the June fires, states that the role of the Armed Forces has fallen short of the desirable—and I would add 'as much as possible' — either in the forecast, or in the fight, or in the heat to these same fires. Now, if we all find that there is a difficulty in attracting and maintaining or holding effectives with the allocation of another role to the Armed Forces to combat disasters, how do you see this equation of difficult resolution? That is, with fewer people in the Armed Forces and more ammunition for the Armed Forces, how is it desirable that, especially with the contractual arrangements and voluntary schemes, this problem can be solved? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u217	You have the floor, too, to make requests for clarification, Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Rebelo, I recognize you as the right to use the title of field Marshal of the CDS in this House of the Republic. But in matters of national defence, I would like you to do an exercise with me that seems much more interesting, which is the exercise of opposition to the four years of the Government which you have supported. At the time of his speech, he said that the country has lost 25 % of its operational capacity in the last six years. I remember, Mr President, that this government is not six years old, this government has much less time than those six years! I also remind the honourable Member that at that time there was a minister, who was named after Aguiar Branco, who had the conviction to question what was essential, structurally, in the Armed Forces, which was his own military condition. at that time, Mr Deputy, in this bench, usually in the third row, beats to that government. But the honourable Member has made it possible for me to tell you — an artist in this speech, because, after two hearings at the closed door with the Chief of the Armed Forces Staff and with the Minister, he has given Parliament his appreciation of the issues he has referred to. I would like to tell you that Mr. Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces rejected the word 'unfair', inserted in the report, at the hearing of the committee. Mr. Chief of the Armed Forces Staff rejected any inability in the Forces to face their own strategic options. The Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces has rejected what has often been said before the coming to Parliament, i.e. that there were not sufficient resources between 30 000 and 32 000 that were planned by Minister Aguiar Branco for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u219	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u220	So, Mr President, I would like — and I conclude, Mr President — to have you do one thing here: to look at the past of the government that has supported...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u221	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u222	...and verify the opposition of this government at that time, giving the credit that this government deserves, because there is, in defence, a policy and a protagonist that is very different from that government that you have supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u223	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mr João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions. No, Mr. Ascension Simões, I am no field marshal. Mr. Pedro Roque, thank you for your comment on Tanks. Unfortunately, that seems to be the case. And I am grateful for the excellent question you have raised on the question of the human resources, of the effect that the Armed Forces are currently having on the new missions that have been delivered to both the air force and the army in the fight against disasters, in particular the fires. Indeed, Mr President, when we see that the numbers of effectives are so small, when the missions are the same, when the presences of Portugal, with outstanding national forces, are very varied, when the internal missions are the same — seeking and saving, guaranteeing national sovereignty and others — and we still add these valences to the Air Force and the Army, we must really question whether the effective ones are sufficient. Secondly, in addition to the question of being sufficient, we must ask whether, in fact, these new missions will allow others to carry out exactly as they are currently being accomplished. That question must be raised. In that letter, that memorandum from the military leaders to the Minister of Defence warned exactly about this aspect. The human resources reinforcements used by governments for these missions were clearly insufficient. Clearly insufficient, Mr. Ascension Simões! And, Mr President, I will answer the questions you have raised. Mr Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces — we cannot be here to reveal much, since it was a closed session, but the Member opened the game — he did not say it was against the word 'injustice', he said that if it were now, he would not have written it. But it's written! He signed that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u225	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u226	Of course, as I was saying goodbye, it was not very good for him to be there to start a conflict with the government. On the other hand—I have reproduced all his statements here—he said that the effectors were the lowest ever, that it was a problem, that the missions could have difficulties in being fulfilled, spoke of non-negligible risks, Mr President! When I hear someone say that the lack of human resources and the lack of equipment are negligible risks to carrying out missions, I think it is serious, Mr. And you, who is a Member of Parliament, who knows these matters and has already been a member of a government, know that, when you are informed of this situation, we are faced with facts that are problematic. Mr President, of course this interpretation is mine. The honourable Member was not expecting him to come with the interpretation of the PS or the interpretation of the Government. That was what I needed most to do! Mr Deputy, in my speech, the arguments I gave were clearly clear. But I leave you with only two data, Mr. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a map.]] According to this map, which you also know, the effect that Portugal currently has in the Armed Forces is 26,589. They're the lowest ever!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u227	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u228	In 2014 there were 30,000, Mr. It is true that we had a breakdown of effectives, but the two biggest breaks of effectives have two dates: in 2010, when the Minister of Defence Santos Silva at that time asked for a cut of 5000 effectives and in 2011, when his government, in the agreement he made with the troika, had only two points for national defences: a reduction of 25% of the effectives after this cut of 5000, and a reduction of 25% in the Military Programming Act. This is the legacy of the Socialist Party, which we tried to avoid having more pernicious effects. Now, at the beginning, we see less effective than there was in the time of the troika and a budget executed less than the time of the troika, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u230	These are facts, and there are no arguments against them! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u231	You have the floor, too, to make requests for clarification, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Rebel for bringing defence issues to debate. And since the themes are vast, I wanted to focus on the issue of the tank incident. As you know, this has been a rather serious event and since the first hour the Left Block has asked the Government to ascertain, indeed, the responsibility, that Parliament, the country should properly clarify, finally, us on this serious event. In fact, it is necessary to ascertain all the responsibilities and what is expected is that guilt will not die in the military institution once again, within the Armed Forces, as has happened in relation to other events that we remember, such as the process of submarines. Stealing in Tanks was a very serious event and, in fact, means a horrendous failure in one of the essential functions of the State, defense. We all know that, in this regard, the Attorney-General of the Republic himself suspected of the practice of crimes of criminal association and of trafficking in arms related to international trafficking. I do not know if the suspicion will be realized — fortunately, the material has appeared — but we still know nothing about it and we are waiting for these clarifications. But if the government did not do well in this regard, the CDS and, by now, the PSD were also not well, because they somehow sought to do political chicana and tried, finally, to wash their hands, as Pilate did. It must be remembered that the video surveillance systems of Tanks have been broken since 2012! And who ruled in 2012? Oh, my God! The PSD-CDS-PP government, which Mr and his party supported and did nothing. Therefore, they also have responsibilities in this situation. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] On the other hand, Mr President, the reduction of funds during your Government has also reached the defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u233	It's not glued anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u234	Of course, there were very violent cuts at the level of workers, but it also reached the military condition, survival pensions, and, in terms of rights, they were far more than the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u235	Mr. Deputy, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u236	Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member what measures he proposes his party to improve the military condition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u237	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rebel, I would like to welcome the fact that we bring national defence matters to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic and tell you that we were looking forward to it when, at the beginning of your speech, we started talking about interrupting an investment cycle. We thought that the CDS was going to make a mistake, hand it over and talk about human resources issues in view of non-compliance with the law of incentives and drastic cuts, in what is the condition of the military, carried out by the PSD Government / CDS-PP ; talk about investment, deliberate options for delays or acquisition of equipment on the basis of external missions, read from NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), not on the basis of missions of sovereignty and national interest; talk about the fact that there is indeed a blockade of the progress of the military. This was the expectation we had of the CDS intervention. But no, the central theme of your speech, the first one, put out with great emphasis, was the topic of Tankos, which reveals, Mr President, that there is no point in this matter. And that doesn't mean you're disregarding the clearance of all responsibilities. But, leaving aside the topic of Tankos, his intervention still dealt with equipment and delays. There are, indeed, delays. I would like to ask whether or not you think that the option of handing over all the competitive procedure to an NATO agency was a good option by the Minister of Defence. Maybe it wasn't. I'm asking you for a brief comment. But more than delays in the acquisition of equipment, I would like to ask whether or not it is true that over the last few years — and we could say decades — the major investment priorities in our Armed Forces have focused on options that benefited NATO and external missions and have not benefited from internal, defence, sovereignty missions in the national territory. Is this, or is it not, a matter of concern to the CDS? That is a very important issue for us, which must be put.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u240	It is that investments are focused on what should not be priority, which are external missions and NATO, neglecting the sovereignty missions that are more important to us. Finally — and to conclude, Mr President, since I have exceeded my time — I wanted to raise a question regarding the unlocking of career progress. I would like to ask you, since this matter was a achievement of the 2018 State Budget, in which career progressions were unblocked but where there is a need for a negotiation process with the military representative structures, it is considered that it is time for us all to press for the Ministry of Defence to open the doors to negotiations with these structures to unlock once and for all the progress that the PSD and the CDS-PP have blocked when they were government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u241	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mr João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u242	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr. João Vasconcelos and Mr. Jorge Machado, my colleagues from the Defence Commission, who have always shown a great deal of interest in these matters. Both the Left Block and the Communist Party — and this will be the first answer to similar questions — are against the presence of Portugal in NATO and the European Union. From the moment we have missions that we share with our NATO and European Union allies, of course our military are involved in them. The Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the CDS believe that these alliances are important for Portugal and for the collective security of the world. We have given examples of participating with great courage, great quality and great professionalism in these missions. Portugal is a promoter of peace in the missions in which it is present: when it was in Bosnia, it has promoted peace; it is in the Central African Republic to help protect defenseless populations such as Mr. Members know perfectly well; when he is in Iraq training Iraqi troops he is to combat Daesh and international terrorism; when he is in other countries he is always in the projection of Portugal in military alliances or in the European Union to ensure the collective security that we also benefit indirectly. Yes, Portugal must participate in these missions and it is important that our military and armed forces be prepared for these challenges. In the meantime, I would like to correct Mr. João Vasconcelos : the first information we had from the Army was, in fact, that video surveillance had not worked since 2012. But if you read the reports that are unfortunately classified — this is an element that can be disclosed — you will know that it has not been working since 2001, which is even worse. Mr President, what government has put into the Military Programming Act to do works and improvements in the tank countries? It was the PSD Government / CDS, which, in the review of the Military Programming Act, in 2014, entered into force in January 2015, placed a fund for this purpose. Moreover, as you know, the Minister of Defence of this Government awarded a statement in 2017 under the Military Programming Act that our Government had changed. Therefore, it is not entirely true what I said, because there was concern to see that the facilities were bad and to try to ensure their improvement. On the questions related to proposals for improvement of the military condition, I must say that the military condition has several scopes and what is affecting military families most is health and health care in the disease. These are the issues that the military and their families have referred to, because the setbacks have been many. The gentlemen. Members Jorge Machado and João Vasconcelos say that there are still serious problems in this area, but we know that the debt of the IASFA (Instituto de Action Social des Formas Armadas) is already 70 million and that it was 48 million when this government took office. Nothing has been done to change this and there are still blocks in the progression of careers. But your government is doing this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u244	I'd like to warn you about that. We believe that, at this time, we can already walk towards the release of the freezings. And it is not because we were in opposition, but because we had no way of doing it when we were under the assistance of a troika who came because of the bankruptcy we inherited from the Socialist Party. So now that there is this possibility and that your government is ruling the country, try to convince you to unlock military careers. They will have our support in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u245	You have to finish, Mr. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u246	Mr President, I talked about three issues, because I couldn't talk more in six minutes. But there are others I would like to have talked about, particularly IASFA. I would also like to have talked about what is happening at the Military Hospital, in the lack of assistance to the disabled of the Armed Forces and the former combatants. There are a lot of things to talk about, in fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u247	In his speech he only spoke of Tanks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u248	Mr President, Tanks has taken up a third of my speech. Recruitment is vital, and even you were the gentlemen. Members who proposed this debate for the week.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u249	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u250	I shall finish, then, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u251	You have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP held its National Meeting on Education in Portugal last Saturday. We assume education as a real pillar of the integrated development of the country, guaranteed by an educational system that values it and democratically managed public education with objectives, structures, programmes and financial and human resources that enable the realization of the right to education, education and equality in access and educational success to all Portuguese and at all levels of education. For the implementation of the patriotic and left-wing policy we defend in education, we have about 40 proposals that we will not fail to integrate into the action and political initiative of the CFP, within and outside the Assembly of the Republic. The democratic, public, quality school for everyone, inclusive and free, is the one the PCP defends for the country because it corresponds to the model that best serves the interests and rights of all Portuguese people. When we talk about defending the public school, we have to talk about defending the rights of its workers, workers who have been fighting and who the PCP is livingly greeting. It refers to the national strike of teachers and educators, held between 13 and 16 March, against the elimination of about 70% of the service time provided during the period of career freeze. The position of the CFP on career progression has always been clear. All service time provided must be counted for career progression. Progress needs to be made and the government has to discuss with the unions the way its remuneration valuation is paid. In fact, the State Budget Act itself determines that what is referred to for negotiation is only the expression of remuneration and not the counting of service time. Another issue concerns the resolution of the problem created by the government with the amendment of internal mobility rules and the exclusion of incomplete schedules. With the publication of Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March, the situation of injustice that was created with the teachers affected will not be resolved, although the Government already knows the criticisms of the workers and their representative organizations regarding this matter and of knowing beforehand that opening the contest only to teachers who consider themselves dissatisfied with the placement now obtained does not respond to the problems and contradictions that have been generated, preventing the reorganization of the global set of placements in strict respect for the criterion of professional graduation. Thus, the CFP submitted a request for parliamentary review to the relevant Decree-Law and has already sent to the President of the Assembly of the Republic a letter requesting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the assessment and vote in plenary on the day of the discussion on 13 April of the proposed amendments of the CFP Parliamentary Group to Decree-Law No 15 / 2018. We do so with this urgency in order to prevent tenders under this Decree from being opened and to generate major contradictions which will, in this case, remain unresolved at this time and which can only be attributed to the performance of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: On Saturday, March 24, the National Student Day is celebrated, and there are still students who continue to face multiple difficulties and barriers of access and frequency to the highest levels of teaching, which is a reality contrary to the advocated in our Constitution. Higher education students are struggling throughout this week with protests and demonstrations in Porto, Coimbra, Lisbon and Évora. At the core of the claims are old issues that unfortunately have not yet lost the high costs of education, the insufficiency of school social action, the lack of conditions in schools and faculties. It is increasingly evident that the deresponsibility of the State in the public financing of higher education institutions has been an increasing direct accountability of families through the payment of propines, fees and emoluments. Families have been charged with exorbitant costs, precisely in propins, transport, housing, food, books, school material, costs that have led to the abandonment and elitist of access and frequency of higher education. In view of this reality, the CFP today announces the delivery of two basic and decisive projects to break up with the right-wing policy in higher education: a new financing law and a framework school social action law. I am afraid to say this and we reaffirm that the situation, as it is, cannot continue! When it combines the dependence of the regular functioning of the institutions in propinas with the underfinancing of higher education institutions, with the profound limitation of school social action and the evident limitations in the award of scholarships, with the implementation of a system of loans to students in place of social action, we have the finished revenue of a policy of dismantling and reconfiguration of the public response that the Constitution recommends. We're going in the opposite direction. We follow the struggle and fair demands of all those who advocate the valorisation of public, universal, free, quality, democratic and inclusive higher education. With these proposals of the CFP, a significant step is taken towards the effective fulfilment of the State's responsibilities with regard to access and frequency of higher education as established by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u253	Mrs Deputies, the Bureau records the inclusion of four Members in order to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u254	I will answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u255	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, firstly, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u256	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would first of all like to congratulate you on the political statement you have made and, since I have only two minutes to ask my questions, to tell you about two of the issues that brought the debate, and to ask questions specifically about them. Is it true that we are now at a political point that demands, in several sectors of our country, the answer to a fundamental question: this government and this majority, which initially arose to reject the continuity of a right-wing policy that destroyed the country, has or does not have the capacity to reverse the cycle of right-wing policies? I give you two concrete examples, for which I asked for your opinion. The first has to do with the appreciation of the career of the employees of the Public Administration, particularly of the career time of the teachers. After what was approved in the State Budget for 2018, in particular a proposal which united several banks and involved accounting for all the career time of teachers, it is considered that in the process of defrosting careers, the Government has or does not have to comply with this obligation outside the Assembly of the Republic. It has resulted from a proposal also made by the Left Block and which we support and defend as necessary to respect the rights of those who build, of whom is the pillar of the public school and cannot have any blackout in their careers. I will put a second question on a different aspect of education, but which is reflected in the struggles we see, for example, today. There are students who once again demand a reversal of the cycles of right-wing policies with regard to the payment of tips, the underfinancing of higher education, the precariousness of this own level of education. There are students who complain of the difficulty, for economic reasons, that many have to pay tips, have housing, access to manuals, pay their enrollment and maintenance in higher education. I wonder if we are in fact not in the face of a fundamental moment to decide whether this parliamentary majority is capable of making a different policy or whether the PS government will ultimately fall short of the hope that it is launching and has been created since 2015. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u257	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of education to debate, referring to the national meeting that the CFP has held, as well as the main conclusions, reflections and proposals that have resulted from it. I would like to say that we have both the parliamentary groups and the left groups with regard to this concern at various levels. First of all, we believe that it is a national plan to democratise access to higher education. We are getting closer and closer to European convergence in this area, particularly with the increasing increase we have seen in this school year, the number of students who have access to higher education and the same thing with regard to basic and secondary education. That is, we have a concern about access, the right of access to success and equal opportunities for all our young people. I therefore ask you, first of all, whether or not you recognize the effort that has been made and the results we have already achieved, particularly with regard to school leaving, taking into account the decline to 12, 6 %, i.e. a fall of more than 1, 4 %, revealing, obviously, a very relevant path in the course of our students. I also ask you whether or not you look at the concern about the quality of learning, with the profile of the student at the exit of 12. the year and with the effort we have made in preschool and its universalization. These are marks of these more than two years, marks of debate, of dialogue, of approach to the government, the Ministry and also of Parliament to public school and at the same time a work that has been done with the trade unions and representative structures, of which, in our view, has resulted in an important achievement, an important mark that has to do with the defreezing of careers. The truth is that already in March we will have 20 000 teachers who will be reflected in their salary in the progresses relating to the months of January and February, and we will have in this course about a total of 46 000 teachers involved, which is, in our view, a brand that remains. There were those who had frozen progressions, there was a period of stopping and now there is a collective effort that was made during the negotiations, in the course of the effort that was developed by the PS, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party in order to promote this just cause of the defreezing of careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u259	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u260	I would like to ask you, too, if you do not recognize the effort that has been made with regard to the appreciation of the teaching career, because with the linkage of 3,500 teachers, the truth is that we are engaged in an unceasing fight against precariousness, and this appreciation is reflected in these 3,500 teachers who have already seen this link, in the approximately 3,500 that will be seen in 2018, with the association and extension already to the teachers of artistic education, as well as with the increase of more than 2500 teachers placed in schools. That is to say, to the honourable Member, there is a relevant path made here with regard to the concern about the quality of public school, the quality of learning, the strengthening of human capital, whether at the level of teachers, at the level of operational assistants—more than 2000—and the concern also with the participation of students, of which he spoke, where it is essential that this involvement with the school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u261	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u262	...through participatory budgets, their involvement and their right to be heard and heard. Is this still a long way? It is, however, the progress and results of the left-wing policies have been, in our view, remarkable and very progressive and expressive with regard to public school, whose quality and centrality is back and which is part of the permanent agenda of this Government and the PS Parliamentary Group, a permanent agenda for education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u263	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u264	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by Mrs Susana Amador and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. I will answer the questions they have raised globally. It is true that the CFP considers that the Government obviously has to comply with what is enshrined in the State budget for 2018, including what has been approved in the text of Article 19. the, which clearly states that « the remuneration expression of service time in careers, positions or categories integrated into special bodies where the progression and change of pay position depends on the course of a certain period of service legally established for that purpose, is considered in a negotiation process with a view to defining the time and manner for its implementation. This is in fact the very clear position that the CFP assumes and is the State Budget Act which also determines that what is referred to for negotiation is not the counting of the time of service but the way in which the remuneration valuation resulting from the counting of that time of service is realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u266	Clearly, the CFP does not give up convergence in the sense of the rupture with the right-wing policy and in the sense of establishing a patriotic and left-wing policy, which actually serves the interests of the country. And the truth, Mrs Susana Amador, is that the outcome of the policies that have been taken so far, with the most positive measures that have been achieved so far, should and should force even further and further progress and greater enjoyment of rights. In fact, we still have a lot to do with this: in relation to the number of students per class, to democratic management, to the link between teachers, to change the competition regime and to change the ratio of the operational assistants themselves, a measure proposed by the CFP and which has been achieved, but which needs to go much further to meet the needs of schools. The truth is that the CFP is and will always be available to develop all kinds of measures that come in the direction of valuing public school, valuing its workers, in whatever steps are necessary and concrete in order to achieve more rights for all in terms of education, and it is certainly our commitment to take this path, presenting, at all times, either in the State Budget or in the Assembly of the Republic, concrete proposals that can take that same path. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u267	You have the floor, in a second round of questions, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u268	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, first of all, I congratulate you and the Communist Party for bringing the issue of education to the plenary. But then let me express my strangeness to you, because I was waiting for the Communist Party to come to apologize, because the PCP and the Left Block supported this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u269	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u270	This government is in office because of the CFP, and the results could not be worse, they could not be more disastrous. Therefore, the CFP would have to come here and say: « Students, excuse us, because our government, the government we support, has no capacity to manage education in Portugal. We apologize to the parents, we apologize to the teachers." That's what the CFP should do. [[Exactly!]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u271	Mrs Deputy, this year alone, in two and a half months, we recorded 24 strike notice in the country, more strike notice than in the same period with the previous PSD/CDS government, which had to rule the country and recover it from a bankruptcy situation. Many of these warning strikes are in education and the first question I put to you is this: what is the responsibility of the Communist Party for these warning strikes from the moment when it is the government that the Communist Party supports that brings this discontent to the workers? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u272	I would also like to ask you the following: there is a strike by the teachers. Do you not think that this teachers' strike is also against the Communist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u273	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u274	I ask you, then, why the measures that you now come to claim have not been included in the agreements you have made with the Socialist Party and the Left Block to enable the three budgets of the three years of government that we have of the united Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u275	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u276	The teachers are also making a strike against the Communist Party, also against the Left Block, they are making a strike against this government, against the propaganda that promises them what they know they cannot fulfill. And when the CFP comes here to announce measures, it shows its inability to influence the governance of this country, which means that it is selling its support to the Socialist Party in exchange for nothing. [[You're welcome!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u277	So, Mrs Deputy, was it worth supporting this government so far to have these problems in education? Precautionaryness in the State continues to increase, Mrs. What did the Portuguese Communist Party do to reduce precariousness in education? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] In scientific employment, problems continue. What did the Communist Party do specifically to solve the problems of scientific employment?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u278	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u279	I'm done now, Mr. President. There are no assistants in schools. What did the Communist Party do to solve once and for all the problem of the lack of assistants in schools? Madam Member, let's finish the legislature and continue with the same problems. Will the Communist Party go on or not continue with excuses from bad payers and realize that it is not responsible, when it is one of the main ones responsible? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u280	Even for a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u281	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Ana Mesquita to bring this issue to Parliament and, with regard to her speech and also to the doubt that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has launched, if this government would in fact reverse the so-called right-wing policy, I would say that the answer is very clear: no. And it is even written in the Government Programme itself, of the Socialist Party, that I am going to read a little excerpt: « In recent years, education policy has abandoned the most difficult and urgent struggles: it has devalued the fight against school failure, weakened the quality of the public service of education because it has decreased the bet in the whole school, under conditions for curricular enrichment activities and has destabilized the functioning of schools, particularly in the placement of teachers ». It is almost funny how this phrase remains current today — this phrase in which the PS government accused the previous government —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u282	Don't hold on, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u283	...and what answers, in part, to the question of whether there was such a big investment in politics—yes or no? With regard to this destabilization in relation to the placement of teachers, I would like to hear the opinion of the CFP, given that the Minister of Government who supported the radicality on 2 November — "they have my word on how I will fight radically for the rights of teachers" — for a two-and-ten-month defrosting, at the same time as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group approved, together with you, a draft resolution of the Greens Ecological Party, a proposal for repositioning based on all the time, those nine years, I do not know how many months and a few days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u284	The CDS also wanted to vote in favour, but they didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u285	So I'd like to see what we're left with. The CFP has access to information, has joint meetings with the Ministry of Education, it is now declared irreducible on this subject, but the Minister of Education also said this week that this proposal which is on the table is the only enforceable. Therefore, in his own way, he also proved irreducible. I ask the following question: if we stay in this impasse, what is the illusion that the PCP will take away? Or will it not take such an important matter for you, and in which, after all, you have no weight in the decision? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u286	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u287	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Álvaro Batista and Ana Rita Bessa. There is a fundamental issue for us. We consider, and we have all the security, calm and quiet in saying that there are only positive measures, in fact, in cases where the PS is in line with the proposals and positions of the CFP. in that there are no advances, it usually counts with the support of the PSD and the CDS. This is the fundamental issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u288	Exactly! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u289	We know that we have not yet the strength to do everything we want and that we would like to do in relation to the turn of the right-wing policy that has been tracked for a long time, but in fact we have already done many things. We have tabled numerous proposals to resolve the specific problems, Mr Álvaro Batista. And where was the PSD and CDS when we talked about the ratio of the operational assistants? When did we make the proposals under the State budget? When we went here talking about the issues of financing education, what was needed to be resolved? Anyway, where did the PSD go when we went to talk about scientific employment issues? In fact, the one who presented the proposals in this regard was the CFP, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u290	The PSD did not submit any proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u291	Where was the PSD? Zero! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u292	You are in government! There's a majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u293	Therefore, it is defined and very clear what is the place of the PCP and what is the place of the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u294	Of course, the PCP is on the side of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u295	The CFP is on the side of solving the problems and the proposal. The PSD and CDS are on the side of creating the problem, maintaining the problem and also deepening the problem! That is the point. [[PCP applause.]] We have no doubt about this and we continue to say that the question of the time of service for us is very clear: what is being accomplished in the State budget. This is the position of the PCP. We have always said, from the beginning, that all the time has to be accounted for. We do not abdicate from our proposal and from our defense, which has always been able to be enshrined in the very letter of the State Budget Law and, therefore, we will do everything we can to make it come true. But there is something else that we do not have the slightest doubt either: we here always give voice to the righteous demands of the workers who are out there often protesting against the decisions made here. We have no doubt. Where are you already on this subject? Where were they in relation to the concrete contribution of the PSD and the CDS in the context of the State budget, or any other, to the resolution of the problems put forward today? They weren't! It was zero! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u296	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u297	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we then proceed to include a statement under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. This statement will be made by Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This intervention closes a parliamentary cycle but also closes a personal cycle initiated in 2002. over the last 16 years, I have had the enormous privilege of performing parliamentary functions, government functions, public administration functions and partisan spokesperson functions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say here that I have practically done the full : Public administration, Parliament, government and party. In the Ministry of Justice, with three different governments, in truly frenetic times and where it was possible to make a difference. To make a difference in the creation of peace judges, the creation of arbitration centres and the creation of mediation systems in the labour and criminal areas. In the Government, in the Ministry of Internal Administration, a team that I do not forget and that I do not want to forget, in times of enormous restriction, rescue and financial emergency. In my party, in our CDS, where the task of spokesman of a party led by Paulo Portas is, as will be calculated, a whole school of life, unique demand and natural complexity. And here in Parliament, in a relentless opposition to ministers as different as Alberto Martins, Vieira da Silva or Augusto Santos Silva, seeking to be cordial, but firm, always respectful, but demanding, seeking not to make life easier for them all, politically speaking, of course. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is a 16-year-old cycle, but I would like to say here today that I am more parliamentary than I was when I came in here. I believe in Parliament's institution, I believe in Parliament's sovereignty body and I recognize many of those here who are a remarkable sense of commitment and a sense of service, which is so often unfairly called into question. Respect and admiration are widespread to many and do not know parliamentary barriers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I leave Parliament, but I do not leave political life, I do not abandon my party and do not abdicate the will to participate in a better Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I am from the first generation who can say that it is on the right hand without complexes of the past, which was born in democracy, which has grown in freedom, who has grown accustomed to living in a European Portugal and who does not want to repeat the experience of the rescue and the dependence of creditors. from the right that knows that only sustained growth generates stable employment and that only the balance of public accounts allows fiscal moderation. from the right that knows that, only by reforming, we modernize and that only by correcting, we avoid times of affliction. But on the right hand, which also knows that, with all this, we guarantee the sustainability of public policies and ensure the existence of a fulfilling State and not a caliber State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The challenges of the future go through a new attitude, a new attitude to reform the political system, the electoral system, the parliamentary image, the regional and local administrative map. Approaching voters cannot be an occasion phrase, it must be an action script. And a new attitude to realize that it is not the exclusiveness of the Members that is the most serious problem in our political life but, yes, political functionalism, transversal to all and that limits independence, autonomy, creativity and talent. Parliament cannot be a microclimate in the country, it must be the perfect mirror in Portugal that we have out there. But a new attitude, Mr President, also to persist in finding answers to people's specific problems: first employment, first housing, lifelong employment, long-term unemployment, active ageing, our interior — just to give some good examples. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament can make a difference, each of the Members can make a difference, each of us, wherever it is, can make a difference. I wanted to finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that it was a great pride to be part of this CDS parliamentary bench, it was a great pride to be part of this Parliament. We really do politics anywhere. We may want to leave politics, but politics does not really leave us. For this, just be free, have a critical spirit and always want a better country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I continue to be free. My party knows well that I continue to have a critical spirit, my country also knows today that I continue to want a better Portugal. I finish by saying that it was a privilege and that today there is no dismissal. There are no layoffs because I don't want to, because I know there are many who didn't want to, because I'm not really old, and because I never, ever, if you give up. Today, there is only gratitude and recognition for everything. And now let me end up like this, the awareness that, from the future, only God knows. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD, with members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u299	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been eventually clarified at the Conference of Leaders that individual declarations may also give rise to requests for clarification in the same terms as political declarations. To that end, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão was inscribed, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u300	Mr President, I - as I would like to thank Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila - will obviously have to conclude with a question, which I will certainly do. Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila announced his departure from Parliament at the Congress of his party. Obviously, I will not make any allusion to the internal circumstances which will have been underlying your decision. I know him well enough to know that I would not appreciate his claim for any criticism outside his party and, clearly, I will not. I therefore use the word personally, as a member of this bench, to testify to the high and qualified manner in which I always intervene in this Parliament in the firm defense of its convictions. I knew him as director of an important state body, then as opposition Member, then as a member of the Government, subsequently as the Member of the situation and again as opposition Member, and in all of his functions, he maintained the flexibility of the deal, the firmness in defending his convictions and the knowledgeable technical and political competence. It is a trace of character that not everyone can be proud of, so sign it, congratulating him for that. I wanted to wish you the greatest happiness in the new stage of life that now begins. And, as I would unfortunately have to ask you a question so that my speech may be qualified as a request for clarification, I ask you, Mr President, if, despite the differences which clearly separate us, we can continue to count on your civic availability outside Parliament. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u301	Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u302	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, my dear friend, first of all, I want to tell you that it was a privilege for us to be able to count on you as my colleague. We had several moments and various opportunities for joint work. It was moments that we celebrated and will celebrate for the rest of our lives, because it is always enriching to find someone who has the character, the availability, the request that you have shown over time in Parliament. I can also stress the commitment, dedication and dedication, as a patriot who is, in what was the defence of the interests of the country, at a difficult time, when you committed yourself to government responsibility in an area of great sensitivity, such as that of internal administration. Mr. Deputies, you are young, you have a long life ahead of you and we obviously hope that you will have a very happy life. My question, since I have to formulate it, is the most radical question for me: will you have, or will you not, the happy life that we all wish for you? [[Laughing.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u303	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u304	Mr President, I would of course also like to begin by thanking a Member of the CDS for the kind words that have been addressed to a Member of the CDS — and it will, of course, be right until Friday — for Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila, for the Socialist Party's Group and for the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party. I also want to say, Mr President, that, for me, in particular, because I was often your committee colleague, there is also the case that, since I arrived here as a Member, until from here, at least for now as a Member, it has always been my colleague of the 1st. the Commission or, in this case, the Foreign Affairs Committee. Therefore, it has always been a great pleasure and a great honor to be with Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, who each of the Members and Members present here very well knows and greatly admires. Therefore, I will not be doing any point of life—and I know, moreover, that he, as he has said, is not even old for that— nor, so little, will I make a compliment on the conviction, competence, talent, quality and feitio that Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has and that we all know and appreciate. And since this time, Mr President, it seems that all of you. Members really want to comply with the Rules of Procedure, not asking a rhetorical question or pretending that they ask a question, I will ask a direct question and, my dear Filipe, I have none more to be this: when are we going to have dinner or have a coffee? [[Laughing.]] A big hug! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u305	Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila, in the face of the difficulty of the questions, we look forward to your answers. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u306	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the particularly difficult questions that have been raised. I will try to answer telegraphically, although I have been a little worried about this last question asked by my parliamentary leader. [[CDS laughter.]] I would like to thank Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, who knows me very well, and for many years now, the words he has given me here. Obviously, my civic availability is total and remains absolutely unchanged. Mr Adam Silva, I would also like to thank you for your words here. I will seek every day to achieve this great goal, which I have also achieved here, in this House, so many times in opposition, so many times in the situation, as mentioned here, but in fact with absolutely unique memories that I bear with me. Mr Nuno Magalhães, Parliamentary leader of the CDS, I just want to tell you that it was very proud to be part of this bench and not only to note the magnificent Members who have here as well as the magnificent leadership that this bench has and the friendship of many years, but in particular these last two years. Thank you all very much. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u307	Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila, as was the result of his own farewell remarks, he came to political life as a free man, exercised political life as a free man and dismissed himself from this Parliament as a free man. This is the best tribute to democracy, in respect for democratic pluralism. The Bureau is associated with the wishes of happiness that we all wish for. [[General applause.]] We turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the general debate on the proposal for a law No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( ALRAM ). Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, of course the authors are not present, but are highly respected for us and we pay more attention to this initiative which deals with a matter which Parliament has addressed extensively, not only in this legislature but also in the previous legislature. The content of the legislative initiative goes beyond that — the impermissibility of the family home. As we know, it was a subject discussed, as I said, in the previous legislature and it was the subject of legislative process already in this legislature. Moreover, the bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ) entered the Assembly of the Republic at a time when the legislative process was being concluded, resulting from several initiatives from different parties, which was published in 2016, and the fact that it was after the entry of these initiatives no longer allowed its discussion together with the rest. So what we are now considering is whether, with such a recent amendment on the same subject, we will be reopening the discussion on the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Procedure and the Code of Tax Procedure is appropriate or not. from our point of view, there are innovations here that, although in some cases cause difficulties, may deserve this discussion. There are questions that are raised again before this impermenability, in particular as regards its scope, whether or not there is a limit value for it, whether it is extensible to other goods or whether it remains exclusively for the property concerned. Some of these issues were considered in the previous legislative process, but others were not. Therefore, from our point of view and in respect of the initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, this matter may merit discussion in the field of specialty, always with the caution that these types of regulations, including the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure and the Tax Procedures, cannot be changed casuistically. And, therefore, a new amendment must be subject to a weighting due to what is at stake in the proposed amendment, but also to the stability of the entire legislative building. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u309	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to these two legislative initiatives from the Regional Assembly of Madeira which are, in fact, initiatives of a different nature, I begin by saying that the proposal for a law on the amendment to the Statute of Tax Benefits — which concerns, in particular, the amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax (CIMI) — is a matter which, at the moment, is at least a sin because it is extemporaneous. This is to the extent that, as set out in Article 265. the Budget of the State of 2018 which adopts a transitional standard under the Statute for Tax Benefits within 90 days, which is concluded, as it is known at the end of this month of March, the Government will submit to the Assembly a proposal for legislation with the implementation of conclusions that result precisely from the report on the Statute for Tax Benefits. It is therefore foreseeable that by the end of this month there will be a government proposal to amend the Tax Benefit Statute. Thus, at this time it makes little sense to adopt an initiative proposed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in 2016, which is manifestly out of date, when this issue will be reviewed, on a proposal from the Government, precisely within a few days, in addition to the proposal to reduce to half the IMI (municipal property tax) would have implications for the financing of local authorities, which would all be less suspicious and would at least lack a more weighted assessment. In other words, IMI could not be cut to half without the consequences that this would have on the budget of the municipal chambers being the subject of a later assessment, and this, of course, could not be done lightly. It is therefore with many reservations that we see this proposal on the Tax Benefit Statute. As for the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure concerning the protection of the house of residence, making it imporable, we think that, in general and in principle, the idea is to welcome it. There is a problem here, which is to be expected, in the proposed law, the impermissibility not only of the house of residence but also of the goods inside the house. The filling of the family house may be complex because obviously inside the house may be goods that do not have to be immeasurable and this would even allow it to prevent the burden of goods only by the fact that they are inside the home of the family, which, from our point of view, makes no sense. On the other hand, this bill also safeguards mortgages. However, it seems to us that this was worth a reflection because, in the context of the defence of the house of residence, it was indeed protected in this legislation in relation to tax executions, it also made sense some degree of protection in relation to the execution of mortgages, but this bill does not go there, but here, yes, it would be worth having, in fact, this discussion. Summing up, Mr President, to conclude, with regard to Bill No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) whether it seems to us that the idea is generally welcome, but the way in which it is presented justifies, in fact, a further discussion in the field of expertise where appropriate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u311	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: You will forgive me, but I shall begin by citation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u313	It doesn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u314	« In Portugal, by virtue of the austerity measures adopted, the high level of unemployment reached, the closure of small enterprises (...) of reductions in wages and salaries (...) and the enormous increase in taxes (...) »... Ladies and gentlemen, if you are curious to know who these words are, I can tell you that they are from the Regional Assembly of Madeira, the explanatory statement of this bill, adopted on 28 January 2016 by a majority of the Social Democratic Party and not only - but the Social Democratic Party clearly has a majority. Therefore, as regards the credibility of the proposal, of whom it is signed, and in particular of whom it has voted, the issue is resolved. It is also important to say that this Parliament in this Parliament, as has already been mentioned, has approved Law No 13 / 2016, with which significant progress has already been made on the question of the impermissibility of the household in respect of tax debts in particular. This matter was clearly guarded, so today the house of residence is not liable to be penalized in respect of tax debts and thus prevented the executive sale of the property that constitutes permanent housing. by approving this inclusive legislation we also ensure, of course, that the social cost of this decision would remain in the public sector, where it must indeed be. This proposal aims, however, to extend the immeasurability of the house of residence to the goods in it, not only in tax executions. However, it has an interesting particularity: it safeguards bank mortgage, i.e. bank credit. In essence, with this, we are somehow unprotecting creditors in general and, indeed, protecting the financial institution. For all this, with this proposal we would certainly also have a significant impact on the financial system. More: the proposal is also taken without taking into account and taking into account the economic situation, the economic power in this case of the debtor is therefore a strictly generic and abstract decision, without any consideration of the social nature of income and the value of the property. Therefore, the introduction of a new article in the Civil Procedure Code and the amendment of three articles of the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure without taking into account the economic situation of the debtor, as well as the value of the good, are solutions which, in our perspective and in the current framework, will not be followed up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u315	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Fernando Anastácio, allow me to begin my speech with a correctness, which I consider relevant, to say that the PSD, in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, has abstained from this proposal, whose authorship is not of the PSD / Madeira but, yes, of the JPP ( Together with the People), and therefore does not correspond to the truth of what the honourable Member has said here. [[PS Member's Protests Fernando Anastácio and PSD Protests.]] Mr President, the insinuations you have tried here in relation to the PSD in Madeira and the Legislative Assembly do not make any sense. Continuing, it is noteworthy that this initiative has the merit of raising the discussion of a very relevant subject, which is the right to housing for the citizens and their families and the right to the protection of the family home of the Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we agree with the principles of this initiative, we are not indifferent to the drama of many families, but we have doubts about the path and opportunity of this initiative. For us, it is not at stake the consecration, defense, respect for the constitutional right to protection, which naturally moves all parties in this House, but, yes, the limits of that same right and the mechanisms of defense of the protection of the household in the context of over-indebtedness. For PSD, what is truly important is to reflect and find the best legislative solution to protect the home of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u317	The important thing is to contribute, as the PSD has contributed to improving the protection of debtors in difficult economic situations, for example by creating an extraordinary regime for debtors of housing credit. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not agree with the radical solution of immeasurability of the home of the family, advocated on this initiative and which is in force, for example, in Brazilian legislation since 1990, because, for us, this solution does not safeguard the balance, does not safeguard the proportionality between the right to protection, the right to property and the right to credit. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members: it can lead to real situations of injustice and fraud — it is enough to think of the debts of millions of euros that may remain uncollectible — and may also be an incentive for non-payment of debts, non-compliance with contractual commitments and tax evasion. This solution, also in our understanding, confuses the right to the protection of the citizen and the family with the right to have their own home. The regret, by itself, does not deprive anyone in the house who can live, because one thing is the trouble, another is to secure the credit and another is still the sale. The law continues to allow the penhora, but in some cases—as has already been mentioned here and recently discussed in Parliament in 2016—it prevents the sale of the house of a household in tax executions, opting this House to maintain the immeasurability of the house of a household. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all discussions aimed at protecting the home and over-indebtedness are very important for the PSD and are very important for people, but require wisdom and weighting in solutions. It is this wisdom and this weighting that the PSD demands from all political forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u318	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This theme, as has already been said, has been the subject of ongoing debate over the years in this House, and often at the initiative of the Left Block bench, always in safeguarding the constitutional right to housing, the protection of the family as the last reduction of its dignity, after having passed through a process of low income, bank accounts and other kind of heritage. These proposals that the Block presented in the past have always hit the lead by most of them then, PSD and CDS. in this situation, and in the vote at the Madeira Regional Assembly, the PSD and the CDS opted for abstention, and I could not fail to underline this nuance here. Mrs Sara Madruga referred to the extraordinary regime that had been approved in the previous legislation. Well, that extraordinary regime had virtually zero application. According to the data that Deco brought to the public, only one situation was dealt with under this scheme. This situation in the family home is the end of the line, as I said, after the income and other estate. Families were sacrificed over time to save banks, but when families were in trouble, no one saved them, and no one saved them. But nothing wrong did these families, because at the time they hired the credits they fulfilled the ratios, they had sufficient incomes. So, what happened? They have suffered the consequences of wrong policies, by political choice, by the defective architecture of the construction of the single currency. They were deliberate options to impoverish those who work, to demoralize those who dare to defend their rights and to lower life expectancy for the future. We are in principle in favour of the proposed measures, because, although there has been a recent amendment, this proposal extends the scope of exceptions to impermissibility, however, a ceiling, a maximum ceiling, should be preserved for the value of housing which is not likely to be damaged. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u320	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate of the proposal for a law No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), we look at Bill No 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, and amending the Code of Municipal Property Tax, as approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ( ALRAM ). The Bureau is waiting for Mr. Members for speeches on this point. [[Pause.]] Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also with regard to the previous proposal — in fact, the subjects of both are similar — wanted to leave a reference: the Democratic Social Party, in Parliament, was against this solution, but in Madeira, despite having a majority, enabled the so-called solution by abstention. So let us be consistent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u322	It's democracy working!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u323	With regard to the amendment of the Tax Benefit Statute, this bill presents an amendment to the heritage of the Mercy, but does not say a word in the explanatory statement on what is meant by the scope of this measure as regards the exemption of the IMI. As far as it is concerned, the Government has recently announced that it is preparing to reassess all the tax benefit statutes and therefore also in our perspective there is no justification for strictly casuistic approaches to this subject. It is also important to take into account that there is in some way the principle of giving municipalities a significant role in the decision on matters, particularly those relating to the IMI, particularly with regard to the increase, reduction or exemption. In fact, we had the opportunity, even recently, at the time of the discussion of the State budget, to lower the ceiling, but then we left for the municipalities the decision on exemptions. The recommended solution is completely unfair, since it deals in the same way with a property which may amount to EUR 1 000 000 or a property which may be worth € 100 000, purely and simply, as long as it is affected by permanent housing. The proposal also does not take into account the situation of taxpayers, because it deals similarly with taxpayers with absolutely different contribution capacities, which obviously makes it in an unfair situation and even some tax injustice, because we are dealing with exemptions and therefore with public expenditure. The solution today enshrined in Article 11. the -A of the IMI Code, in our understanding, is the most appropriate and the one that solves the situation that is intended to guard or safeguard with this legislative amendment. Finally, it is also intended to automatically update the heritage value according to age. However, the age coefficient is already an element to be considered in the assessment of buildings and therefore it is also likely to be considered at each time of the re-evaluation of that property. A short time ago I made a quote and now I end with another, which is also in the text that was presented to us by the Regional Assembly of Madeira: « Not only will these measures adjust the fairness of the benefits versus taxes to be paid, as will the limits imposed by law on reality lived in Portugal, which will translate into greater social justice, which has been ‘suspended’ in the last four years. (...) 1 June 2016. » That is, the PSD, in the Madeira Regional Assembly, has recognized that justice has been suspended for the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u324	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative we are considering today is intended to introduce changes to the taxation of real estate in order to give it a better balance. In particular, the aim of this initiative is to introduce four major changes: the automatic annual assessment of the buildings, having as parameters the age of the buildings and their consequent devaluation, the extension of the number of benefits for the liquidation of the IMI, the equalization of the Mercy to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) as regards the exemption of this tax and the reduction to half of the rates of the IMI for buildings intended for permanent housing of the taxable person or his family aggregate. Despite the commendable purposes of this initiative, the same is true of some capital mistakes. From the outset, forgets that this is a matter which, in the first instance, belongs to the authorities, to the local authority. IMI is a municipal tax and its revenue is municipal. Therefore, any amendments to this scheme require us to find mechanisms to ensure that the authorities are able to fulfil their responsibilities before the people. None of this is taken care of in this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u327	Likewise, forgets that the exemption of the IMI for Mercy is not solely and exclusively from its legal provision under the Tax Benefit Statute, but is the result of specific legislation, in particular legislation published in the year 1955. Despite the repairs we have left here, we recognize the merit of this initiative in order to draw attention to the need for a broad reflection and a broad debate about what our Tax Benefit Statute is. In this regard, it is important to recall that in the 2017 State budget, the Government was obliged to submit to the Assembly of the Republic, until the end of the Legislative Session, i.e. by July last year, a report containing a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the tax benefits for the purpose of weighing its cessation, modification or extension. Mr António Filipe and Mr Fernando Anastácio, the government has not strictly done any of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u328	Nothing! He didn't do anything strictly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u329	However, in the State Budget for 2018, the Government was again obliged to submit to the Assembly of the Republic, by the end of March, a bill implementing the conclusions resulting from the discussion of the report, which we have never made, because it has never been presented to us, a discussion that, « by the way of the carriage», has already been realized that the government will continue to postpone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u330	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, we are before another initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, once again focusing on tax matters in this case on the Statute of Tax Benefits and the IMI Code. contrary to the previous initiative, which dealt with a matter which the Assembly of the Republic has recently dealt with and on which we consider that there could be margin for a discussion, in the field of specialty, in which consideration should be given to what was proposed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in this case, the subjects dealt with are so casuistic and desquared of what is the nature of both the tax benefits in question and the regime of the IMI that seems to us there is no room for discussion beyond this debate, in general. For a simple reason: in the matter of the Tax Benefit Statute, as has already been said, there is a general weight to be taken, for which the Government is in fact lacking, because it should have already submitted conclusions from the evaluation of the existing tax benefit framework, its application, so that we can consider the future maintenance, extinction or creation of other tax benefits. Also within the framework of the IMI, what is proposed here would bring significant changes which could not be made without discussion with the local authorities, because these would be the main aims of these amendments, in particular for the significant reduction of their revenue, but also because, frankly, even in the merit of each of the amendments, we do not seem to be sufficient reason to deserve a favourable vote. To reduce the IMI rates to half does not seem to us to fit in any way in a fair analysis of a change to this tax, especially when this is deprived of criteria that can bring this justice, and the change to automatic updating does not seem to result in a happier formula than the one that currently exists. Then, by crossing the Tax Benefit Statute with the IMI, the amendment on social institutions and mercy, as already said by Mr Fernando Anastácio, is not even explained in the statement of reasons why the amendment was being and we are aware of the significant impact that such a change would have on the social sector, nor does it seem to make sense to us. Therefore, and respecting the right of initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, respecting the work that this Legislative Assembly has done to bring this bill to this Parliament, we will not vote in favour of it because it does not seem to us that the proposed amendment results in sufficient advantage. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u332	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The set of amendments proposed by this legislative initiative is part of the political heritage of the Left Block and has already been translated into proposals over the years, which have been repeatedly plunged. The reduction of IMI to own and permanent housing makes all the sense, because it treats differently what is different: one thing is the family home, another thing are other real estates that can lend themselves to a speculative use. Equality in the treatment, within IMI, among the different types of entities in the social economy also seems a matter of justice, because other types of entities provide services equivalent to those provided by the Mercy, and therefore we do not understand that there is reason to have a differentiated treatment. The increase in the number of IMI payment benefits also eases the effort for families, which, for many of them, is a difficult burden to bear. We understand, however, that there must be a limit, mainly on the question of the reduction to half of the value of household taxation, because not all buildings, obviously, should be subject to this benefit. The question of the autonomy of the local authority has been raised, and we also respect that autonomy very much, but, Mr President, we also respect that autonomy. Mr. Fernando Anastácio and Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, here is an opportunity, which we can take advantage of, with changes in the field of speciality, to assign greater autonomy to municipalities, such as allowing municipalities to decide whether or not to apply this reduction in the taxation of permanent own housing, which may be subject to a roof but may also be a fixed amount reduction, which, in this case, would introduce a factor of progressiveity, which also seems fair. As for the reservations presented by Mr. João Almeida, I would suggest that he better align himself with Madeira's CDS, to be more concerted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u334	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are already getting so used to summary grids that, in the previous point, I referred to the two proposed laws under discussion, without checking that we had two different grids. But still well, because I'm talking about this bill for 1 or 2 minutes. In fact, the burden that IMI represents for many Portuguese families is a heavy burden, from a tax point of view, and we understand that. So much so that, even in the last State budget, the CFP has proposed a reduction in the IMI rate, which has been approved, and it seems to us that a gradual reduction in IMI, taking into account what this represents for many citizens, for many taxpayers, is relevant and must be done. Well, that's one thing; another thing is the Assembly of the Republic coming here and adopting a law that reduces the IMI rate to half, without taking into account the consequences that this necessarily has in the financing of local authorities. Obviously, a decision of these could not be made without a reasonable study on how to compensate local authorities for the loss of very significant revenues that this would entail. Obviously, the implications of this in financing the authorities would be such that it would be necessary to find here a form of compensation on the ground that we are causing an absolutely unbearable imbalance with regard to the destruction of public resources by the various levels of the Administration, with a clear disregard for local administration. Considering that IMI's fall is an objective that we should continue to pursue in significant State budgets, whether it seems to us that this cannot be done lightly, it cannot be done without taking into account the implications that this matter has for local authorities, who obviously have significant financial burdens and who exist precisely to defend the interests of the people. We cannot but consider this, nor the way in which this proposal presents a reduction, of course, to half the IMI rate — this is not the way a responsible Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic, should work. Therefore, we understand that the reduction of IMI should be made on a sustained basis and taking into account all its implications. This is indeed the reservation that this bill deserves us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u336	Mrs. Members, the assessment of Bill No 25 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a). I now ask the Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with the reading of the file which he has entered in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u337	Mr President, I should like to announce that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1434 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates 21 March as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission. At the request of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, I remember that tomorrow, at 12 noon and 30 minutes, Mr. Members are invited to the presentation of the new website of the Assembly of the Republic and to the balance sheet of the work of the Digital Parliament, which will take place at the Auditorium Antonio Almeida Santos. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-21.u338	Mrs. Members, our next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, 22 March, Thursday, for 15 hours, and will have as a working order the debate required by the PS under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on « modernising the economy through innovation and science ». Nothing else to deal with for today, the session is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 18 hours and 41 minutes.]]
