ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Pedro Alves, will do his best to announce the diplomas they have entered the Bureau, beginning with the reading of three opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first opinion relates to a request by Judge 1 of the Local Court of Évora, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Évora, Case No 2065 / 1.8OYLPRT, for which the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Norberto Patinho ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the Greens and the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second opinion refers to a request from Judge 2 of the Central Criminal Court of Portimão, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Évora, Case No 1582/11.7TAPTM, for which the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Cecilia Meireles ( CDS-PP ) to intervene within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the Greens and the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the third opinion concerns a request from Judge 3 of the Central Criminal Court of Faro, Court of Justice of the County of Faro, Case No 483 / 12.6TAVRS, for which the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro do Carmo ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the Greens and the NAP was recorded.]] Mr. Secretary has the floor to keep track of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 167 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 168 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other procedural arrangements within the administrative and tax jurisdiction, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 169 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the rights of suspected or accused minors in criminal proceedings by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800, which falls to 1. the Commission. I am also referring to the following motions for resolutions: paragraph 80 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, which falls to 2. the Commission ; points 81 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Portuguese Republic on Defence Cooperation, signed in Tallinn on 1 June 2018, which falls to 2. the Commission ; point 82 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola to Avoid Double Taxation in Tax Matters on Income and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola on Mutual Administrative Assistance and Cooperation in Tax Matters, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, which falls to 2. the Commission ; points 84 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement for the Review of the Agreement on Air Transport Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique, signed in Lisbon on 30 April 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; and paragraphs 85 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres, signed in Beijing on 9 October 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission. The following bills were also entered in the Table: No 1030 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the Legal Regime of Replacement Management ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; points 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the regime of confidentiality in assisted medicinal product breeding treatments ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; points 1032 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Seismic building reinforcement, including in rehabilitation works, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1034 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — The second amendment of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 strengthening the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth, which falls to 9. the Commission, with connection to 1. the Commission ; points 1035 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change the scheme of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from the national territory, establishing the allocation of the temporary residence visa figure to the immigrant citizen with a year of social security discounts, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; points 1036 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Ensures the end of concessions for the exploitation of on and offshore hydrocarbons throughout the national territory, which falls to 6. the Commission ; and points 1037 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening the capacity to produce medicines by the current Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, then the national laboratory for chemicals and pharmaceuticals, which drops to 9. the Commission, with connection to 8. the Commission. The following parliamentary opinions were also entered in the Bureau: No 71 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 87 / 2018 of 31 October on the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 8 / 2007 of 17 January, establishing that the completion of simplified business information ( IES ), as well as the Annual Declaration on Accounting and Fiscal Information ( d ), shall be carried out after submission of the standard tax audit file designated by SAF-T ( PT ) on accounting, the Tax and Customs Authority and its validation, No 72 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures » ; No 73 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking » ; No 74 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication » ; paragraph 75 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which « provides the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters » ; No 76 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use » ; No 77 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation to exploit the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of play » ; No 78 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which « provides the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes » ; No 79 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which « provides for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies » ; No 80 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which « Concretes the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion » ; No 81 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which « provides the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal entities in the field of justice » ; and No 82 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November, which « provides the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches ». Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 1878 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cancellation of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons — Battle and Pombal, 1879 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments, shared by the National Health Service, and 1880 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent reinforcement and requalification of valences of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedro Alves. I congratulate you on your breath. Let us, then, start the agenda, which has as its first point the general discussion of the Bill No 145 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Judicial System Organization. I welcome the Minister for Justice and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. You have the floor from now on to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In January 2019, two years were completed on an event that marked the life of several communities in the Portuguese territory, particularly the interior. I am referring to the entry into force of Law No 40 -A / 2016, of 22 December, whereby we introduced the first amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System as well as to Decree-Law No 86 / 2016, of 27 December, which amended it. at this time, they were reactivated, as judgments of proximity, 20 courts that had been closed with the reform of 2014. During these two years, until the end of October last, around 2300 trials were held in these judgments involving more than 14 000 citizens, in addition to thousands of citizens attended by presence or by telephone and of acts and diligence at those places. Both the government and the authorities, the judicial operators and — most importantly — the populations consider this experience a success. The reactivation of these courts had objectives and achieved fruits that in much transcend the administration of justice, intended to be a signal to the inhabitants of the interior, a message of confidence, that the State will not give up or give up on them and its territory. A court is more than a house of justice and the fundamental rights of citizens, it is a symbol of the sovereign presence of the State, a sign of valorisation of local communities and an instrument of development, of investment attraction and of direct and indirect creation, of employment. How can a State appeal to the establishment of enterprises and citizens within rural territories if, at the same time, it gives signs of reverse meaning, removing their services from there? Oh, my God! The reactivation of these judgments of proximity is one of the most significant contributions in the area of justice, within the framework of the effort that the XXI Constitutional Government has made, with a view to promoting greater territorial cohesion. In accordance with what we have proposed, it will be carried out in the courts of proximity not only the trial sessions relating to criminal proceedings of the jurisdiction of the singular court but also the trials of civil cases whose value does not exceed EUR 50 000. These are mostly private disputes, often related to contractual issues or real rights, which occur at a much higher frequency in these localities and therefore take on a higher importance in Community life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u12	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing another amendment to the judicial map. Today, the Government invokes, as the aim of the proposed amendment, the extension to the processes of a cable nature of the solution already found for the criminal proceedings with regard to the execution of their judgment, thus seeking to once again amend the law of the judicial organisation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, it is important to remember that the judicial map contains a specific standard which provides for its periodic review in order to prepare possible adjustments. That is why their review and adequacy has been planned. Mr Minister of Justice, there are things that cannot be reversed, and in this the Government has been doing well, not calling into question, although it has cost you to admit, for example, the question of specialization, which is essential and of course explains the brutal decrease in the number of procedural expectations that you felt after the entry into force of the judicial map. [[Well said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u13	The Government now points to the obligation to conduct civil action trials in so-called proximity courts. However, Mrs Minister, most of the judicial officers who have been heard on this matter wonder whether there are the necessary means to carry out the so-called approach between justice and citizens, especially those of the interior, since these courts do not have resident judges. Ms. Minister, criticisms are many and range from the longer-lost implications on the road on the productivity of judges, associated with the need to predict the material conditions appropriate to displacements, to the substantial differences between jurisdictions, which require different treatment. The general prevention requirements, which may serve as an argument for the relocation of criminal judgements, do not occur in the processes of a civil nature. You can't talk about proximity! Even because we know the guarantee that the Minister has already given in time, of the logistics inherent in the reopening of the courts, and we know that the problems remain today. Madam Minister, what we have are nearby judgments affecting only a judicial official, who, when conducting trials, has to close the office, leaving the citizen to be able to access services and functions, preventing such a coveted access to justice. Given the way in which the proposals were made, when the judicial map was changed, there were problems that were not properly guarded. It seems to us that this proposal under discussion today also does not meet the substantial objectives of bringing justice closer to the citizens. It is necessary to find out whether there are the means necessary for its implementation and to ensure that such resources exist. If this is not fulfilled, Madam Minister, we are again faced with an attempt to please the electorate without providing the necessary means to the measure in question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u14	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u15	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We did well when at the beginning of this legislature we contributed to this bench so that this attack against the balance of the country and against justice, which was the closure of dozens of courts. at that time, in 2016, if I do not miss the memory, we here on this side of Parliament, proposed some criteria for what would be the reorganization of the judicial map. In particular, I highlight three criteria that we proposed at that time in a draft resolution: the reopening of closed courts; the allocation of these courts of general competence in civil matters and criminal matters; and the strengthening of the human and material resources for the proper functioning of these courts. In fact, we were right, and this proposal that the Government here today presents to us shows that, indeed, what we saw as a criterion was right. We understand that specialization in the functioning of the judiciary is undoubtedly an important criterion to be taken into account. The problem arises when we make specialization a factor that prevents access to justice for those who live away from large urban centers. That's wrong, that's unfair! Indeed, if we are faced with a country in which it is increasingly important and urgent to create conditions for its territorial balance, to combat desertification and the abandonment of the interior—if this is absolutely priority— then we must know how to create conditions in the area of justice too so that, with the presence of public services that serve anchor to communities that are further away from urban centres, there is an organization and a more successful daily life. Mrs Minister of Justice, that is why in the Block on the Left we give importance to an observation contained in the opinion of the Superior Council of the Magistracy, in this regard, that perhaps we should give more importance to the criterion of the municipality, much more than to the territorially competent judgment, because that is the only way that we will effectively respond to the needs of the communities throughout the country. Mrs. Minister, I just wanted to add a note to this assessment. It is our understanding that the crucial issue for this reorganization to be effective and to achieve the results that it is intended to achieve, is of course necessary to give full attention to the provision of technical, human and physical means. In fact, these adjustments require that the courts be provided with the necessary officials so that they can carry out their duties. We have made some progress in this recently within the framework of the State budget. The Left Block has made a proposal, this proposal has been adopted and we believe that this is the way to answer these questions. Secondly, it is necessary that this amendment should not be used where it cannot be used, i.e. officials of a kind or of a municipal affiliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u16	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u17	Madam President, I shall finish with one last comment. It is also important to take into account that the execution of judgments in the courts of proximity involves the relocation of judges, and this should be taken into account in their assessment. Therefore, the proximity of communities is absolutely essential for justice to be effective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u18	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u19	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this proposal for a law, the Government has proposed that hearings for the trial of civil cases, of the competence of local civil judges or of the courts of general jurisdiction be held in the territorially competent court, even if it is a court of proximity. This is a welcome proposal that comes on the path that the CFP has always defended, of justice closer to the citizens. The changes to the judicial map, with the closure of dozens of courts, were one of the most destructive measures of the PSD/CDS-PP government in terms of access to justice and courts. The CFP has done everything to prevent this unjustifiable measure by the government that, instead of combating desertification within the country and to guarantee, in constitutional terms, the citizens' access to effective judicial protection, which has added the courts to the role of closed public services, making the life of the populations out of the large urban centres increasingly difficult. In the electoral programme with which it was presented in 2015, the Portuguese Communist Party undertook to take legislative initiatives with a view to reopening the closed courts, which it did soon at the beginning of the legislature. But more than that, what the CFP defended and defended is that there is not only a generic jurisdiction court in each of the old districts but that, in the municipalities where there are no districts, court hearings may be held when there are adequate facilities for this purpose. We converged with the PS Government essentially, that is, the closed courts were open, which happened through Law No. 40 -A / 2016 of 22 December, and we also converged on the stated purpose that there could be trials in municipalities where no court was based, provided appropriate facilities were defined. But there were steps to be taken, and the fact that there were no judgements of civil proceedings in proximity trials caused in many cases the number of trials in reopened courts to be reduced, giving space to the right-wing campaign, which stated that the reopening of the courts had been an ambush. The reopening of the courts was not an ambush, but it is positive that there are more hearings of judgment, closer to the populations, not only in criminal processes, but also in processes of a civil nature. The CFP therefore welcomes the proposed measure, which is what we always defend, as regards the realization of a more accessible and closest justice of the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u20	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The XXI Constitutional Government Programme assumed as one of its objectives to speed up and bring justice to citizens, promoting correction of the errors of the judicial map, with the necessary changes, all in a logic of integration with the policy of planning the territory, of valuing the interior and of proximity to the citizens. In 2016, the first amendment was made to the judicial map, precisely with the aim of reopening courts and making the conversion of proximity sections into spaces in which jurisdictional power was fully exercised, with the practical possibility of performing judicial acts, including judgements, bringing the justice of citizens closer to justice and thus contributing to a logic of integration with the policy of planning the territory and valuing the interior. Many of those sitting on the right side today have at the time hastened to devalue this measure. at the time, some said « will not reopen courts », « there will be no trials », « will be practiced mere acts» ; others said that in these closed courts we would have some judgments without any expression ; others rushed to say « the number of judgments is zero ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to have a sense of the outcome of this measure, it is important to know what the real impact of this measure is and, therefore, some figures will help to clarify this issue. In 2017, in these 40 courts, 1176 criminal trials were held and, this year, until October, 1114 trials were held there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is this not the approach of justice to the citizens? I think it's time for the most skeptics to sideline the skepticism and support this kind of openness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with the support of the success of this proximity option that we are now taking one step, one more, in the same line of approach of justice to the citizens. The proposed law under discussion does nothing more than deepen this path, allowing more steps to be taken in the approximation of justice to the citizens, leading, now, also, the cable judgments to these courts, thus contributing to a more just justice, because it is closer and more accessible. Close justice is a citizen's right, it is a people's right, it must not be dependent on the will of some. As a full right, this right must not be dependent on casuistic decisions of judicial operators, such as some lawyers. It is a right of the citizens and that is why we are here, to give justice to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate the firm conviction of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that today, when we approve this bill, we will be making another contribution to improving access to law, to taking another significant step in the construction of a more equal country, where dichotomy between the coast and the interior is not so marked, where the interior and its peoples have more and better access to justice, knowing that closer justice is a more just justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u23	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u24	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the fourth time, in two years, that the Minister moves in the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, always with the aim of speeding up justice, and for the fourth time, Mrs Minister, we tell her that this is not the way she can achieve this goal. Not that we have a position of principle against the realization or possibility of conducting trials of a civil nature in the courts of proximity, but, Madam Minister, we believe that this is more a cosmetic operation that little or nothing agitates justice, that little or nothing re-approachs the citizens of justice and, above all, that little or nothing brings to provide the judicial system with confidence. As we said in the other amendments, and we repeated now, it was not then, and it is not now, once again, to reopen courts, contrary to what the Minister of Justice and the majority have always said. She knows why, as well as we do, it is not really about reopening courts, because it is not about speeding up justice and bringing the citizens closer to justice. But instead of taking that right, Mrs Minister, and showing people what alternative ways are for this design, which is a good design, the government chooses to take into account what it does, but in fact does not. More serious, Mrs Minister: not only does she not do what she says she will not even make available the means for what she does. Say it to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, say it to the Superior Council of the Magistrate, say it to the Trade Union Association of the Portuguese Judges, say it to the judicial officials and say it to the people. And what do you say, Minister? They say that without improving the working conditions of the courts of proximity, this proposal, like the other one, loses effectiveness, what has happened, in fact, to criminal trials. They also say that the time for the magistrates' movements is delaying the service, which is already heavy, and that this is already noted in relation to criminal trials. They say that there are no means for travel, which, moreover, have costs, and say, in addition, that the secretaries of the courts of proximity often close so that the officials may be able to attend the trials that are made there. So, Mrs. Minister, it's not effective. Mr. Minister, for us, for the CDS, what was really decisive to speed up, to approach and to provide the judicial system with confidence were other amendments to the Law of the Judicial System Organization. These, yes, could actually make a difference. And these are proposals which we have already made several times here, and which we have repeated. I therefore ask you, Minister : is it available to accept the CDS proposal, to regulate and establish the support offices for judges, with competent and effective technical advisers, which can in fact speed up justice? We have proposed it several times and it has been plummeted several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u26	I ask you, Madam Minister, if you are available for this, i.e. to effectively provide the system of speed and confidence. In addition, Mrs Minister, she asked whether she was available to accept another proposal from the CDS, which is the award of competence to the Court of Intellectual Property to address copyright issues, thus truly specializing in justice, taking this issue further into consideration. Here again is the challenge, Mrs Minister, which is to know whether it is available to accept CDS proposals that effectively accept the plan that the Minister intends with this amendment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u27	The Government, as the author of the agenda, has two minutes to close this point. You therefore have the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has always said that the intervention on the judicial map was gradual and that it would rightly respect the injunction to make an assessment before proceeding. We started this trial with criminal trials with sentences up to five years. Let's try it. Why? In particular, because the question of the means was raised, the difficulty which has been considered and therefore we have limited ourselves to judgments with sentences up to five years. In the meantime, in terms of means, I must say that, as regards judges — which is one of the complaints that exist — the government has introduced into the system, if we consider the revenue this year, 380 judges. There were 118 judicial judges and 180 judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Every year we regularize admissions and are entering magistrates, just as justice officers have entered. Therefore, this failure does not exist. For all these judgments of proximity, they were all equipped with videoconferencing equipment. Finally, the criminal judge can do cell, because he's a judge of generic competence. Other physical means, cars, etc. Obviously, the government is available, and we are now reviewing the fleet to find solutions where there are difficulties. Don't forget, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that there is a tendency not only to reduce crime but also to reduce crime and therefore it is perfectly comportable what we are now doing, and that is why we are doing so now. With regard to matters relating to other interventions, the Government is available, with regard to clarifying the jurisdiction of the Intellectual Property Tribunal, to examine disputes arising from copyright. I think it's something you can do in the field of specialty. Finally, I wanted to say that it is not true that the government realizes what it does, but it does not. The 2300 judgments carried out over this time mean that, indeed, the judgments of proximity are working and are responding to what they were created for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u29	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is that of the general discussion of the Bill No 147 / XIII / 3. a — Approves the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Again, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice to present this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today presents to this House a proposal for a review of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor, following the submission of a proposal for a review of the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates. After two decades on the first Statute of the Public Ministry and four years on the entry into force of the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, the necessary amendments were required to conform the Statute of the Public Ministry not only to the new model of judicial organization but also to the circumstances of a new time. Some of the solutions adopted at the organizational level correspond only to the institutionalization of existing structures in general in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in particular in the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic. in a sum necessarily tight, I will now state the matrix ideas of the proposed law. First of all, the introduction of a flat career, according to which there are only two categories, which are the prosecutor of the Republic and deputy prosecutor, no longer exist the current three and disaggregating the function of the category. This means that the places of the first instance are no longer filled by mandatory reference to a certain functional category and are replaced by reference to a set of requirements which are expressly provided for in the Staff Regulations, relating to time of service, seniority and evaluation of professional performance. It is intended, essentially, with this amendment, to enable younger but more committed judges and better prepared judges to access places of greater responsibility. Secondly, the clarification of the hierarchical structure of the Public Ministry, with the enunciation of the positions to which the functions of hierarchy correspond and the clear definition of competences and the way of articulation of higher organs. In this context, there is also a strict delimitation of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office as a management and disciplinary body, and of the Attorney-General of the Republic as a hierarchical body. Thirdly, the capacity of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic is strengthened with the creation of national coordination offices, as well as the central department of state litigation and collective and diffuse interests, in order to strengthen the specialization and intervention skills of the Public Prosecutor in non-criminal areas, creating conditions for more centralized, more uniform and more coordinated action. Fourthly, the retraining of judges acting in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction to the traditional hierarchy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. To this end, four administrative and fiscal zones are set up, hierarchically dependent on regional general prosecutors, and integrated into the area in which they are inserted, and are set up, like what happens in the common jurisdiction, coordinator judges, with powers similar to those of the judges presidents and coordinators of the districts. Fifthly, the competences of the DPRK ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ) are being updated, depending on the matter, maintaining the current structure. The update aims, exclusively, at the inclusion of serious and emerging criminal phenomena, including trafficking in persons, criminal association for trafficking, international arms trafficking, financing of terrorism, crimes of the securities market, crimes of the Cybercrime Law, undue receiving of advantage or trafficking in influences. The scope of drug trafficking in international trafficking has been skewed, which is the only restriction on the catalogue of pre-existing crimes. Sixthly, the reformulation of the quality and efficiency of research on economic and financial crime, the most pressing one, allowing judges who perform their duties in the district departments of research and criminal action, and who achieve the desirable level of expertise not only as well as experience, to remain in the same departments, without prejudice to their legitimate progress at wage level. In this case, there is a logic for strengthening and safeguarding the expertise so necessary for criminal investigation. In seventh place, the reformulation of the functional performance mode, opting for a model, I would say, more vigilant in the first years and more pedagogical, also, at the beginning of the career, and adopting the principle of the evaluations will be carried out, preferably, by inspectors who have performed functions in the areas they will inspect. Finally, the Statute becomes more self-sufficient, thus avoiding what is happening today, which is the systematic subsidiary application of rules of other systems and regimes, in particular the General Law on Public Works. To this end, in addition to the empowerment of the duties, the behaviours that may constitute unlawful disciplinary acts are described, the penalties that must be associated with them are defined, the whole disciplinary procedure is densified and a set of other matters are also regulated, such as those relating to committees of service and to the exercise of the positions of voice of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry. We are convinced that these proposals constitute an important step and a step forward not only in the modernization of the Public Prosecutor's Office but also in the capacity of its judges to face the challenges that exist today, both in the criminal field and in other areas, such as civil society, the environment, the administrative sector, among others. But these proposals can, above all, mean a new path to the future, improving what exists today in the Public Prosecutor's Office and, above all, designing changes, improvements that will further enhance their capacity to intervene. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u31	The Bureau noted Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, to request clarifications and therefore has the floor, Mr Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u32	Madam President, the Minister of Justice, on this Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office that brings us and his intervention, perhaps took the opportunity to confront it with some issues which seem to us to be fundamental in the area of justice and so propagated, so referred to and so argued about reform of justice. First of all, I remember, not so much the V. Exa, because it will be remembered, but to the House, that the CDS delivered here, in March, a vast set of proposals in the area of justice. From March to now, we have heard a lot about party initiatives, but the fact is that, as far as we know, the only initiatives that are on the table are exactly the ones that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u34	More recently, Mrs. Minister, we have even heard about the possibility of a constitutional review that has an impact on the area of justice. And there we are entering, exactly, some of the subjects that the Minister has spoken about, recognizing that they can mean some improvements and that this is not exactly a break-in but, yes, it is a matter of improving several matters that are on the table. I remember, Madam Minister, that, in our view, the clarification of the role of the Attorney-General of the Republic itself — in this case, we are with the second prosecutor, but I refer to the prosecutor as a position — and his relationship with the Supreme Council is a matter which, having constitutional consecration, will only be achieved or will not make his amendment. The same can be said of the composition of the Council itself. Today we are inclined, as we were inclined in the past, to a certain strengthening of what we would call a presidential or intervention component of the Presidency itself, but in our view maintaining a majority or at least a balance between the members who are judges and the members who, being lawyers, do not have to be from the judiciary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u36	These are several questions of reflection, these are important issues, which the CDS would like to see discussed, which are obviously added to by the Minister, career issues and financial issues. I did not want to call it another debate today — which, unfortunately, is under debate and on the agenda — which is the serious situation we lived in yesterday and today in two prisons,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u38	... in due course the Minister will have the opportunity to come to the Commission, and that is also our intention, so that we can discuss these matters, but I would like to remind you that the question of careers and financial issues is very important. And one aspect for which we have been alerted, this in terms of the Public Prosecutor's Office, is that the career of criminal investigation, up to the point of pay and evolution — and I ask you what reading it does about this — is not the most stimulating. This means that, not being the most stimulating criminal investigation career and the one that best, more effectively and more quickly allows career progression, there is no natural attraction for this career, which should be central, fundamental and, eventually, the most important from the point of view of the protection of the rule of law. Therefore, this is an essential, central issue, because from that point of view, for example, the CDIP may have difficulty recruiting, in comparison to another way, either the family courts or the juvenile courts, or any other, which is obviously worrying, from our point of view, to which it is added to the financial autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is always very much discussed, very much referred to, and which, being the Minister who is and having the course he has, will certainly be even, and we hope that he will be, in his concerns. To this end, Mrs Minister, there is something else, which is the very financial difficulties — of means, of recruitment, of updating the judicial police itself, even in what is, today, the most serious, worrying type of crime, and which evolves more, which has to do with cybercrime, with all this type of crime, which obviously combine with the number of effective people, because so far computers do not investigate themselves. So, we can have the most modern computers, but soon they'll serve, if the researchers aren't there...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u40	...to drive them and operate them. It is a matter which we have brought to the agenda, we have done so in the budget reading, we have come forward with proposals which have been approved and which have then been dropped.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u42	... and, including, we had occasion to confront you with this concern. Therefore, in terms of the final issue, Mrs Minister, I leave you with the following idea: if we combine the fact that in the Public Prosecutor's Office criminal research careers are not the most attractive ones with the financial difficulty that is common to various sectors, and to various sectors of its protection, but in particular to the judicial police itself, this is worrying, from the point of view of the State of democratic law, and is, above all, worrying from a point of view that it should be our main or one of our main concerns, which is the confidence of our fellow citizens in justice, in research and in the fight against corruption. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u43	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u44	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, on the last issue you raised, I would like to point out that one of the points I referred to in my speech was precisely that, i.e. the need to be able to fix judges in the DIAP (departmental investigation and criminal action) district. This is the difficulty that exists today: to be able to fix the judges who have reached a certain curve of experience in the criminal area. That is why this Statute proposes that these judges may continue without any loss of remuneration, i.e. in the same situation where they would, by chance, be to a family court or to the so-called « central court », where the remuneration is higher. Therefore, there is no rise in the category, what happens is that, by meeting the same requirements, of time and notation, of whom can go to the criminal centers or to the centers in general, they can effectively remain there. This concern was welcomed in the Statute and was one of the concerns I have just mentioned. With regard to the other issues you have raised, basically those associated with proposals that have been put forward and to concern with understanding at the level of justice, Mr President, what I can tell you is basically this: we are available for understanding in Parliament. I believe, moreover, that all the parliamentary groups that have been heard have rightly expressed the idea that, if they exist, the understandings should be found here in Parliament. What the Government can do, and its position is always secondary, is to pass on to Parliament the proposals that are already on the table, which are in some way consensualized and correspond to the concerns expressed by all the parties with parliamentary seats, but of course it is Parliament who will decide what to do about them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u45	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: We well know that it has been too long for us to finally be able to discuss and appreciate this proposal for a Statute of the Public Prosecutor. Each day that has passed the most will have been, and we certainly agree on it, an increase of demotivation, from then on, to the body of the Public Prosecutor, and also of increased difficulty for criminal investigation and for the defense of the public interest that the Public Prosecutor's Office is defending. First of all, we point out the importance of this date, but on the other hand, the question we have to ask is whether the proposal that the Government brings to us is capable of responding effectively to the challenges of a qualified criminal investigation and a defence of the public interest that is strong by the Public Prosecutor. Our answer is that, yes, this diploma goes that way, of course it needs some refinements, in terms of our expertise, but I would like to emphasise some aspects that we consider particularly important, because that is the mark that we should bring to the public debate on this very important issue. First of all, it is very important that a specialization logic is enshrined in this proposal, namely the inclusion of experience in the area and even specific training in the evaluation, with a view to promoting it, is something that we consider very important. As we also consider it very important to place the prosecutors of the administrative and fiscal Republic in conjunction with the prosecutors of the districts, which is important, for example, in matters of such sensitivity and social relevance as those of urban crimes or other practices of this nature. Finally, I would like to highlight the establishment of a single category of judges in the first instance — and the Minister referred to this — with merit criteria for moving to more responsible functional content positions. This was something we wanted to underline. This balance sheet, which, as I have already said, is positive, we understand that there are some elements that deserve particular attention and that, of course, will be those who, in the field of specialty, will be looked at and worked more closely, with proposals from the Left Block. First of all, I would like to stress that, as it is obvious, for the principle of the flat career to succeed, it is absolutely necessary to guarantee the defrosting of careers, so that indeed the flat career can, finally, be a good principle of career organization in the Public Ministry. Secondly, there are some questions that need to be clarified eventually or perhaps further refined. This is precisely the case with the mobility scheme. It is true that, in this final proposal, there is a path that has been made and that has led to a different wording than that with which we first met, but it is still necessary to ensure that the constitutional principle of the immutability of judges is met scrupulously, precisely in order to favour or fully safeguard the essential principle of the independence of judges. Finally, there are also some aspects of the remuneration dimension which cannot be taken into account, in particular as regards the payment of the urgent service, which should be done in general terms of the law and not in terms that are currently placed, i.e. on the basis of index 100. This does not deserve our agreement. That said, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we want to say on this occasion is, firstly, our commitment to ensure that work in the specialty results in a Statute that responds even better to those that are the needs of the Public Prosecutor and that we can thus, essentially, contribute to creating conditions for a motivated Public Ministry, capable of responding to the challenges of great complexity that are those of defending the public interest and of responding to an increasingly complex crime that is taking on increasingly complex contours, to which it is necessary to respond, with means and with motivation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u47	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Peixoto, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister for Justice: If there is a matter where the Minister has an added responsibility for good and evil, that is precisely this. I say this, because the Minister is a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office, she knows the corners of the house, performs functions with relevance in the structure, dominates its functioning and knows the strengths and weaknesses of this judiciary. It would therefore be normal for the Statute to gather more certainty in itself than doubts, more consensus than dissent. It was also expected that he would look more outside, for the judicial system in general, and less inside, for the self-government system of the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But let me tell you that it does not seem to be the unequivocal sign that this Statute leaves here. I would therefore like to tell you that, despite the effort made in this diploma, we believe that it needs to be improved, in the field of expertise, and the PSD will do everything in its power to make a positive contribution to the completion of the diploma. Despite questions that resolve satisfactorily—and have! — there are others that do not solve and there are others that fail to solve. Those who resolve satisfactorily have, for example, to do without being exhaustive, with the adequacy of the Statute to the new judicial model implemented by the previous Government, and in which this Government, honours it, has not moved. Then there is the reinforcement and clarification of the hierarchical line of the Public Ministry, i.e., one knows better today who commands and who obeys, which can bring new dynamics to the structure. It also refers to the establishment of the flat career, which has already been discussed, with the existence of two single categories of first instance judges. Then we have the issues that this initiative does not solve, and these are more structural and more relevant. Let me just give you three examples, the first of which has to do with the lack of judges. The Minister, in the previous debate, said that the Government has opened competitions or has already managed to frame 180 new judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But these are not what we are talking about, Mrs Minister, because these are those who, by virtue of some who are going out, over the years, have to come in. We are talking about exceptional needs that the government has to solve in an exceptional way. Everyone knows that 200 new magistrates from the Public Prosecutor’s Office are needed — that’s what they say. This Statute partially resolves the issue with a programmatic standard which speaks of the possibility of creating a complementary framework. But, tell us, Madam Minister, with the lack of these judges, associated with the shortage that fats by the PJ, how will the government, which elects as a fundamental element, as a primary objective, the fight against violent crime, as well as more complex crime, solve this? This is because the Statute does not answer that question. The second question refers to the intended defrosting of the careers of the magistrates of the Public Ministry. The latest news about this problem has to do with a statement by the President of the Public Ministry's Magistrates' Union which reproduces a conversation he has had with the Minister, in that he said the Minister will have told you that the question of judges will be treated the same as the teachers' issue, that is, what happens to the teachers is what will happen to the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The problem, Mrs. Minister, is that the teachers' career remains frozen and will, of course, remain in the freezer for a while longer. And this Statute does not bring any microwaves to freeze the judges' career and solve the problem. It was therefore good for the Minister to tell us how and when she wants to resolve this situation. The third question — perhaps the most important one — has to do with the real weighting of the external control mechanisms of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office must, of course, maintain and even strengthen its democratic autonomy and legitimacy, which are sacred constitutional principles in this matter, so that there are no interferences from political power, in particular the executive power, in its investigative activity. This control is, as you know, carried out by the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor. It happens that the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor has 19 members, including the Attorney General of the Republic. Of this universe, five are elected by RA (Assembly of the Republic), two are appointed by Mrs. Minister, seven are elected by their peers and four are judges, of hierarchy. Made the final arithmetic, what do we have? The Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office is composed of 12 judges and 7 non-judges. It is not difficult to see that this composition influences and powers decisions that never affect the class and that do not turn on the path of an equidistant and critical analysis by most of its members. In essence, what is involved, and in a word, is that there is a temptation here to make decisions called 'corporative'. The worst thing that can happen to a supervisory body is, by means of votes, not to monitor anything and, by better decisions that it makes, never make decisions that are syndicable or voteable, as they should be. Therefore, here is a question where, in our view, more than the way in which the Attorney-General of the Republic is designated, because this is a matter which can only be dealt with in a constitutional review, it is justified to consider whether this Statute should or should not reflect the relevance of a change to the composition of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, making it a parity, under conditions equal to what has already happened in the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which has eight judges and nine vowels appointed by the political power. Finally, Mrs Minister, the Statute has failed to resolve other matters, losing an opportunity to introduce some morality and, I would say, some social justice in the country. We all know — at least I know from my own experience — that the judicial magistrates and the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office work enormously, many hours, days on end, during the weekends, holidays and without even knowing what compensation is for extraordinary hours. But there is evidence that we cannot ignore: at a time when several classes claim wage and career breaks, especially teachers, it cannot be taboo that more deeply discuss certain rights which the Statute provides for the class. We know that the class of judges has a restriction, when compared to the others: it is obliged to the status of exclusivity. Only that this condition, which may justify a differentiated treatment, and which justifies, may not justify differentiations of a huge dimension. As the popular saying goes, « not so much to the earth nor so much to the sea», « not eight nor eighty». We could give many examples, but I'm only one, on the issue of retirement. Mr Minister, we know that it makes sense to maintain the retirement regime for what you are trying to avoid, but it is not understood by any citizen, as regards the extent of the benefits that this scheme confers, that the Statute does not refer to it. Here is a situation, among many others, that needs to be discussed. However, there are two more questions that need to be discussed and these may be in favour of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Despite the differences between the two magistrates, it is not clear why, in two matters that have nothing to do with the essence of each of them, there are two weights and two measures, facing the principle of parallelism and perhaps even that of the external autonomy of the Public Ministry. For judges, the remuneration due by accumulations and substitutions shall be decided by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. For the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the remuneration is already decided by the Minister. With regard to the limits on the handling of judges, in the case of judges, it is the Supreme Council of the Magistracy which defines; in the case of judges, it is the Minister and Dr. Mário Centeno who define. This is perhaps incomprehensible! In conclusion, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Members, the PSD challenges the Government and the Socialist Party to reflect with us, to enter the debate, to dialogue with us in order to know whether these issues are priority issues to improve the justice system as a whole. Or we talk about these dysfunctions, with particular emphasis on the one I talked about, that of the recomposition of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, or, then, we stay in the antipods. Mr President and Mrs Minister, if the Government and the Socialist Party accept the challenge, they are in the right way; if they refuse it, they are harming the country and for that they will obviously not have the support of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u49	Mr Jorge Machado, on behalf of the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u50	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a note issued in June 2015, the Portuguese Communist Party considered it unacceptable that a few weeks from the end of the legislature was about to pass the statutes of the judiciary. This situation was another example of the total irresponsibility of the PSD/CDS Government's conduct in the conduct of State affairs and would inevitably affect the regular functioning of the institutions, in the case of the judicial system. It is not the adoption of a normal professional status, but rather the adoption of constitutionally stipulated statutes, whose contents and rules are determined by the nature of the constitutional function that its holders perform. The statutes are also structural diplomas, essential in the functioning of the judicial organisation itself. Its understatement, particularly in the case of the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose Statute we are discussing today, calls into question the normal functioning of this important judiciary, which has the constitutional function of the exercise of criminal action and the defense of democratic legality. In October 2015, the legislature changed, the government also had to start again. The proposals for laws on the statutes of magistrates have taken a long time, and we are finally, from today's debate, in a position to start the work, in the speciality, on the statutes of both magistrates. There will certainly be difficulties to overcome, greater or lesser, but must be faced and overcome. This legislation cannot end without the Statute being approved. The Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office in force is still essentially law No. 47 / 86, which is over 30 years old. Many changes have occurred in these more than three decades in the area of justice, including a reorganization of the judicial system. A comprehensive review of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office is an unrelenting requirement and can no longer be postponed. The Statute of the Public Prosecutor has constitutionally clarified and defined marks which must be strictly respected. The autonomy of this judiciary, both externally and internally, is a cornerstone of the democratic rule of law. The proposed law submitted by the Government constitutes a basis for discussion in the specialty. over the past few months, there has been an intense debate on solutions to be consecrated, involving many judges, at the initiative of the Union of Magistrates of the Public Ministry. The XI Congress of this Union, held in February, in Funchal, and the opinions sent to the Government and this Assembly of the Republic, which discussed in detail the various issues that need to decide in this legislative process, are a valuable contribution to the work we have before us. On behalf of the CFP, I welcome the Union of Magistrates of the Public Ministry, thanking the contribution they have made over the decades for the dignity of this judiciary and, especially, for the debate of the Statute, contributions with which we will continue to count. This is not the time to detail the specialities of this bill. There will be time and need to do so, but there are structural issues that need to be reaffirmed. The internal and external autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the issues of the non-mobility of his judges in the exercise of functions and the principle of parallelism of the judiciary are essential principles that are incontrovertible. The judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office is no smaller. The matrix option for the parallelism of the magistrates cannot be deverted in practice. In matters such as the mobility regime, the status of the members of the higher councils, the remuneration or disciplinary regime, it is important to preserve parallelism and not to deal with solutions that translate a minorization of the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office by statute. In this Statute, it is necessary to establish the flat-rate career of judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office in appropriate terms. It does not make sense, for example, that a magistrate with great expertise and experience in criminal investigation has to abandon this function as a condition for advancing in the career. These and other issues will need to be carefully considered. The PCP Parliamentary Group is fully available and committed to participate in this legislative process, seeking to contribute to solutions that it considers most appropriate for the consecration of a strengthened Public Ministry and suitable for the missions of transcendent importance assigned to it. The direction of criminal investigation, the exercise of criminal action, the defence of democratic legality, the representation of the State and the interests which the law establishes require a public prosecutor's office at the time of responsibility — certainly with a conditional statute, but also, surely, with the necessary human, material, technical and financial means and, no less important, with the support of the criminal police bodies and, in particular, the judicial police, with the means indispensable to their co-judgment in criminal investigation, particularly in preventing and combating organised crime, which constitutes a very serious threat to the rule of democratic law. It is for the Public Prosecutor's Office to be at the forefront of the defence of the Republic and the rule of law. It is up to us to be on the front line in the defense and dignity of the Public Ministry. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u51	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u52	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: We have finally entered in the process of assessing the Statutes of the Judiciary Judges and the Public Prosecutor's Office, this assessment, for so many times promised but only now by this government. In the case of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor, this review is especially justified according to the needs of organic adaptation to the new judicial model. We will therefore strive to provide the Public Ministry with the architecture and functionality appropriate to the proper performance of its missions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Statute of the Public Prosecutor — the affirmation of its nature, the acquis and ways of achieving its powers and the list of rights and duties of its judges — represents a fundamental pillar in the architecture of the rule of law, in the fulfilment of democratic legality, in the guarantee of citizens' rights, in the conciliation of a complex activity, since the representation of the most vulnerable to criminal action aimed at combating crime. All this acts in a framework of autonomy enshrined in the Constitution, in accordance with the law, which establishes for officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office principles of hierarchical responsibility and subordination, through criteria of objectivity and legality. Independence of the courts and autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office are, therefore, two master but not confused beams of the judicial system and the democratic organization of the State. It is not confusing, insofar as judges are passively and impartially responsible to judge without promotion and to officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office in an active manner, with exemption, to promote without trial. in this exact sense, as an organ of the judicial system to whom it performs a primary task to ensure democratic legality, the Public Ministry is especially a guarantor of public peace and respect due to fundamental rights, but does not act alone or move in a kind of self-reliance that the isle of the requirement of constant interaction with the institutions of the state and civil society. If, in order to preserve its functional autonomy, public prosecutors must be protected from external interference in the conduct of their actions, this action must refer to binding criteria resulting from the law, which are essential to the control of the legality that everyone covers. In this light, society deserves to know the fundamental meaning of the guidelines pursued by the Public Prosecutor's Office and should be able to regularly assess its results, as a fundamental criterion of legitimacy for trust, so important in one of the most sensitive areas of public authorities. It is with this understanding of the complex and demanding nature of the judicial functions that it is necessary to appreciate this bill and to ensure, in the end, that it responds to the imperative to guarantee to the Public Prosecutor a model of legality, effectiveness and rigour in fulfilling his duties. The purpose is easy to state, but to guarantee it there are solutions that are not free of controversy and in which this proposal does not touch as is the case with the criteria of representation in the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, distinct from what is in force for the Supreme Council of Judicial Magistrates. There are, however, other dimensions that justify special reflection. Continuing the purpose of providing the Public Prosecutor's Office with an effective organisational structure, able to respond consistently to the requirements of his activity, the bill redefines the composition and competences of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and establishes a relevant role for regional prosecutors. It is therefore important to ensure the functional rationality and legality controls in the activities of the bodies concerned and the ways in which they are linked in the more general context of the judicial system and more specific of the criminal investigation system. It is essential to ensure that the Statute safeguards the following fundamental aspects: ensuring that the action of the Public Prosecutor pursues the criminal policy guidelines legitimately established by the sovereign bodies, not being the statutory framework an appropriate instrument for defining, in view of the quality of the subject, the preferred targets of the exercise of competences;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to ensure that internal procedures of relevance, such as pre-investigation procedures, have a normative and duly syndicable framework; to ensure that new rules of administrative and financial autonomy and of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic clarify their scope and ensure consistency in the allocation of public funds to the entire judicial and police system as well as the corresponding democratic control; to ensure that the system, which has long been regulated in the law of criminal police organisation and investigation, in particular as regards the modes of coordination, articulation and supervision, is not called into question by means of organizational macrocephaly pulses, with a serious risk of prejudice to the efficiency of scientific police functions and the strategic and tactical performance of criminal police bodies; to ensure that the overall results of the action of the Public Prosecutor's Office, expressed in his annual report, are presented in this Parliament as a qualified form of information to the representatives of the people, with implications for the evaluation of the best solutions to be found for the successful conduct of the assigned missions. The statutory aspects of the professional career of the judges of the Public Ministry, their rights and duties, impediments and incompatibilities, disciplinary responsibility and modes of internal mobility are also matters to call our attention. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In its various dimensions, justice performs an absolutely essential state function for life in society and, in democracy, all the action of justice must be guided by a fundamental criterion of the protection of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees and legitimate interests. Constitutional order, civil peace and respect for democratic legality thus presuppose it. But this statement is only fully feasible if the institutions of the State, in addition to the training of the holders who serve them, are effectively endowed with the corresponding statutory quality. This is the requirement for realisation which, as legislators, is putting us in place. We must respond to the responsibilities that democratic representation gives us and requires us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u53	For a new intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u54	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Telmo Correia, a few years ago, has already mentioned the essential issues which, for us, must be guarded, but there are two concerns that we have and that I would like them to be more explicit. The first one has to do with criminal investigation. There is, I think, a certain paradox here, Mrs Minister : is that, being criminal investigation the core business, so to speak, of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with this Statute continues, it seems to us, voted on to forget and to be the poor parent of this judiciary. Ms. Minister said that there was already in this Statute a mechanism to solve the problem of setting judges in the District Investigation and Criminal Action Department (DIAP ). The Public Prosecutor's Office says that it is not, in his opinion, and, moreover, says that the version prepared by the previous Government was better in this area, because it had incentives and mechanisms that allowed effective fixation and attractive to judges to fix themselves in district DIAPs. I would like to ask you, Minister, because you have abandoned the previous version, because you did not see it in this Statute, if it was, according to the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, better and more convenient. The second question has to do with the fact that the Minister has said that she did not have a mandate to review the remuneration issue, and this is the elephant that is in the middle of the room and of which the Minister has not spoken. Now, if the Minister does not have a mandate, the fact is that the PS said it would not hurt, because in Parliament it would solve this matter; however, we have not heard a word about it. More: We have heard the PS say earlier that it would not finally solve this issue. Mr. Minister, the question is obvious: where do we stand? Does the Minister have or does she not have a mandate to resolve the remuneration issue? Does the PS have a mandate to resolve the remuneration issue or not? This is what I would like you to explain, because this issue is still important. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u55	In order to close the debate, you have again the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the contributions and suggestions that have been made here and which reveal Parliament's interest in this matter. The Constitution of the Republic provides for the composition of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office and provides it as a management and disciplinary body and not as a hierarchical body. I understand that there are recent impulses in the sense of a mixture of the two dimensions, but I believe that, for the sake of the autonomy of the Public Ministry, there must be a clear separation between the powers of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry and the powers of the hierarchy of the Public Ministry, which is perfectly defined. I would also like to say that all international bodies, from the Venice Commission to GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ), which is responsible for assessing the structures of countries in the perspective of corruption, point to the composition of councils having a majority of judges. Whether we want to or not, these are the international recommendations we have been receiving. On the other hand, I do not think that there can be any questions related to the lack of judges or to the supplementary framework, because the supplementary framework of the Public Prosecutor's Office exists and is completed. It may be appropriate to first ask the Public Prosecutor's Office before making certain statements here in Parliament. Mrs. Members, the Statute will not — nor should it — interfere neither with the law of criminal policy, which the Public Prosecutor is obliged to respect, nor with the legislation relating to the Internal Security System. There must, of course, be a balance and respect between the dimensions related to the criminal investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Directorate and the dimensions related to security, public order and the Internal Security System. Mrs. Members, I believe that this proposal improves the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, increases the transparency of procedures and better presses the merit of judges and, in addition, effectively resolves the question of the stay of judges in district DIAPs, probably...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u57	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u58	I shall conclude by saying that certain aspects of this Statute can of course be reviewed in the field of specialty. I count on the goodwill of the honourable Members. Members with a view to further working on this Statute, especially in the field. What I ask you to do — and it is the request I leave here, which is an ingenious request — is that this legislative process be decorated with the greatest possible speed and that the Statute of the Magistrates of the Public Prosecutors is concluded, both the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u59	The general discussion of the Bill's proposal No 147 / XIII / 3 is thus concluded. the dismissal from the Minister, we are now generally discussing the Bill No 148 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the first revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme. To present the bill, Mr Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In our view, the PNPOT (National Programme of Territorial Planning Policy) is a mandatory document and because the action plan of the one we have is already expired, because the one we have been described and built in Portugal very different from today's - leads me to say that Portugal today does not have a national territorial planning policy programme. But it must, because it is the guarantee of the integration of investment and territorial policies in the same territory. This plan does not exist alone, it is obvious that it has, itself, a very strong internal coherence, but is completed, immediately at its birth, by the Plan of Valorization of the Interior, which has already been approved, and earlier, as it should be, the National Plan of Investments where the great works, the major interventions on the territory will be contemplated and, of course, integrated, before that, with a territorial policy for the Country. The preparation of the strategy that precedes the next cycle of Community investments also needs to have a territorial expression that this programme builds. This Program is part of a very profound diagnosis that essentially characterizes four families of changes in the country in the last decade: environmental changes; sociodemographic changes; technological changes; economic and social changes. This is a clear definition of the programme. Members know - because we have had the opportunity to at least twice with the Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature in the Commission itself to discuss it - and present it - what are the territorial challenges of the country where natural capital has a fundamental role, contrary to what happened, for example, in the previous plan in which natural capital was completely neglected and where polyentrism was absolutely asserted. Managing natural resources sustainably, promoting a polycentric urban system, promoting inclusion and valuing territorial diversity, which is an extraordinary wealth that our country has, strengthening internal and external connectivity, promoting its own governance are its main challenges. The plan concludes with 10 commitments, which I will not have the opportunity to mention in detail, but of which I cannot fail to highlight two. The robustness of territorial systems according to its centralities, where it is recognized that there are territories with great fragility and that need concrete operations for its development, is an obvious example of Pinhal Interior. In the territories where the medium cities are the structural elements urban and urban-rural relations are of the greatest importance and in the two large metropolitan areas sustainable mobility and housing are the main axes for their external competitiveness. in this same plan, it is also clear that low-density territories due to sociodemographic projection will not cease to exist, but under no circumstances a low-density territory can be confused as an abandoned territory and this plan makes very sure steps so that this does not happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u61	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Soares, by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Territorial Planning Policy Programme, PNPOT, is at the top of the entire territorial management system and establishes the model of organization of the national territory, which should take into account the sustained development of communities and territories. Nothing less than that, a great centrality of the definition and territorial integration of public policies, which shows how important it is, even though we are aware of the distance that the general public is in this debate. This is one of the problems we are facing. Although it is clear in the proposed amendment of the PNPOT, the need to disseminate and consolidate a culture of planning of the territory, to consider that informed participation and citizenship are essential for the proper management of the territory, the fact is that, as regards methodologies of citizen participation, little or nothing is advanced. In our view, it should be one of the structural axes of the PNPOT. And not to be considered — we have already made this criticism in the past — the maritime area as an integral and essential part of the national territory is, in our view, an incomprehensible weakness. It is very limited to understand that the so-called 'Atlanticity of the Country' lies in the planning of the coastal shoreline and the autonomous regions. Confounding the ordering of the vast oceanic area only with the National Strategy for the Sea is, in fact, giving up a strategy of planning for a relevant part of the territory, it is not known whether anyone interested in the exploration of the maritime subsoil that will do so in the future. The territorial model of the PNPOT 2007 presented territorial cohesion objectives and a polycentric urban network. The result, over the next 10 years, was the reverse, and we are not exaggerating. The failure is evident: desertification and depopulation are the counterpoint to the concentration of population, economic and infrastructure resources of the coast, but above all in the metropolitan areas. This is not good either for the metropolitan areas, nor for the coast and much less for the interior regions. We will contribute, as a matter of speciality to the legislative process, to the debate on the territorial model, but we cannot help but put forward our deep concerns not only with the balance of the model that has led us to failure, but also with what is expected. It says the current proposal to amend the PNPOT, and I quote, « policies should not be conducted to reduce differences between regions, but to extend the territorial basis for competitiveness ». One will say that, extending the territorial basis of competitiveness, will reduce the difference between regions, but reality has shown otherwise. The logic of competitiveness is the logic of market concentration. Therefore, there is a need for planning and planning that compensates for this trend and promotes territorial cohesion and sustained development. Despite the concept of politrism being expensive with this proposal from the PNPOT, as Mr Minister said, it is questionable the weight given to metropolitan areas in the evolutionary scenarios. I believe that, when the north-south interurban axes of the interior are almost missing, they question the effective adherence to the construction of a decisive polycentric network for the promotion of territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u63	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u64	I will finish, Madam President. This is a crucial issue with regard to climate change, because it is associated with the ideas of economy, proximity, short circuits, multifunctionality that must prevail in rural territories as a sustainable way to ensure settlement, environmental values and natural resources. [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u65	For an intervention, Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u66	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State for the Management of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are discussing today the spatial planning instrument that serves as a matrix to a set of other instruments, plans and programmes that regulate and guide the transformation of the territory. This document also contains references for the definition of the Portugal 2030 Strategy and how it will be implemented in the territory. It is therefore a fundamental document, which has now been the subject of changes, which has been updated in relation to the reality of our day and the challenges that lie ahead for a new decade. The PNPOT will determine the direction for the transformation of the territory and covers several areas of action, ranging from the management of natural resources to city policies, passing through many others, all of which have social, economic and environmental repercussions. As I cannot discuss all the issues and areas of intervention, I would like to emphasise two aspects that I find crucial to the success of the Programme: one is the appreciation of the territory and the other is its governance. Regarding the appreciation of the territory, this is a theme that has always been present throughout this legislature. The awareness that the actions we produce on the territory leave indelible marks and have repercussions for several generations must make us more responsible for the decisions that are taken and more attentive to the policies that are adopted. Choosing the appreciation of the territory as one of the main vectors of the National Reform Programme, we have an idea, and we believe, that there is a territory with enormous potential, that needs to be treated more carefully and that essentially recovers the wounds that have been inflicted on it, especially because of the lack of planning or failure to comply with it. For this reason, the value of the territory necessarily goes through a re-qualification of the landscape, urban regeneration and reinvention of mobility systems, in order to optimize resources and provide better quality of life for citizens. With regard to governance, it is essential that the plans and actions that will give shape to a new strategy for the territory be implemented in new forms of governance, more decentralized, is true, but also open to public participation. The convening of citizenship should be one of the fundamental pillars of sustainable development and the key to success in the implementation of urban plans and other planning instruments of the territory. Finally, I would like to leave the idea that the approval of documents like this of the PNPOT, as happens with the approval of PDM(municipal directors plans) or other urban plans, is a moment of resumption of a way, a sort of return to the home of departure. Therefore, what is desired for the life of this renewed PNPOT, pointing to a new decade, is that it emerges from the role and that its ideas and objectives shift to actions in the territory, thought and discussed with the participation of citizens, developed transparently, that bring results and really contribute to the enhancement of the territory and the quality of life of citizens. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u67	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Carlos Barros, by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u68	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State for the Management of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The version of the PNPOT, today under discussion, could not fail to be marked by the errors of political orientation reflected in the resolution of the Council of Ministers which in August 2016 determined the beginning of this process: on the one hand, because it did not immediately understand the profound changes in different areas since the approval of the PNPOT still in force in 2007 ; on the other hand, with the Government adopting a centralist view, placing the focus on, I quote, "strengthening the role of the two metropolitan areas of the country in the structuring of the national urban system". From the very first moment, the PSD identified and denounced this orientation, seeking to influence changes, which, in fact, were happening. Let us see: the resolution of 2016 said that "the strategic objectives and guidelines" of the PNPOT of 2007 had been maintained essentially because there had been no significant changes; now, after all, the emphasis goes to the'dimension and substance' of the changes that have taken place—and, through the course of the simple amendment process, to be completed technically in 12 months, for a review process, the proposal of which today, 28 months later, we are debating. It is also with one of the five territorial challenges that this version of the PNPOT now presents to us: the promotion of, I quote, "a polycentric urban system" — the PSD had already insisted on this, Minister — when in the resolution of 2016, i.e. the starting point of this whole process, the formulation was exclusively that of "strengthening the role of the two metropolitan areas". In other words, a kind of decentralisation on the contrary. We believe that these changes — which, in fact, the PSD sought to influence — have been walking in the right direction, in fact, in the overall framework of the competent work of the technical and scientific coordination teams that we are pleased to register. The problem is political and the problem is that it was made late, as almost always happens when bad starts. The problem is that this tension, also of a temporary nature, has been reflected in developments in the debate of the Community funds and the large investment options and in a difficulty to move from the statement of good intentions of the plan to its effective territorialization, identifying the infrastructures, networks and instruments that make them. Having said this, Minister, the PSD, in the specialty, more than insisting on the remaining weaknesses, will not fail to contribute to the appropriate changes in favour of a PNPOT that the country is both accurate, operational and, as desired, ensuring principles of cohesion and social and territorial equity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u69	Mr Álvaro Castello-White now has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your congratulations. Mr Minister, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There is no doubt that the challenges facing Portugal, the perception that we have of reality—both social, territorial or economic— have come, progressively and constantly, to change, so it is fully justified to change the National Programme of Territorial Planning Policy which has these constant changes, but which also looks at the reality of the country and effectively seeks to act on this reality. When we look at our country, we quickly perceive the great fragility and imbalances that exist. And we do not just need to focus on the tragedy of the fires — which, unfortunately, we have recently lived and that we cannot be indifferent — also the problem of the interior and the territories of low density is known to all and has been constantly present in the political discourse. Unfortunately, what reality has shown us is that there is a gap of prosperity in the country in the face of the most developed states of the European Union, and this difference is much more marked when analyzing the levels of the interior. The CDS, despite the constant lead of its proposals, will not fail to draw attention to these real problems and to propose measures that will definitely change this state of affairs. This new PNPOT has an extended horizon, aims to be a programme guiding the definition of the Portugal 2030 Strategy and the National Investment Programme 2030. Therefore, the definition of clear strategies for the country is necessarily necessary. Now, already in the partnership agreement with the European Commission within the framework of the European Common Strategic Framework 2014 - 2020, funding for the country's territorial and social cohesion and sustained growth, focusing on combating regional asymmetries and social inequalities and supporting local economies. However, the government has been moving away from those objectives, as reflected in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. In fact, we believe that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 44 / 2016 of 23 August, which was based on the review of the PNPOT, highlights too much—although obviously it is not to be overlooked—the strengthening of the large urban centres, specifically referring to the strengthening of the two metropolitan areas of the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u71	In all this process we must also not forget that Portugal is a country of maritime vocation and therefore the sea can, and must, make a significant contribution to the economic, social and sustainable development of the country, being part of any national policy for the territory, ensuring that in the new multiannual financial framework Portugal will be able to assert itself as a great European power in the area of the sea. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u72	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Paula Santos by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in the Assembly of the Republic, we discuss the strategic options for the territorial organization of the country, which are contained in the proposal of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme. PNPOT is a key instrument for the harmonious development of the country in the different areas, in promoting living conditions, investment, production, employment, defence and use of resources and services. However, we note that the guidelines recommended by the Government do not respond to the most pressing problems or lead to the balanced development of the country. There is a huge absence in the PNPOT: the realization of regionalisation, envisaged in our Constitution, is essential in a democratic process and participated in regional development. On the other hand, it is based on the deresponsibility of the government, with the transfer of powers and charges to the authorities, which we do not follow. The second cross-cutting aspect of the whole of the PNPOT is the absence of any guarantee as to the allocation of the means necessary to give realisation to structured public investments able to translate territorially into strategies for economic and social development. In fact, this was one of the problems identified in the PNPOT which is still in force. Thirdly, the structural causes that led to regional inequalities are not identified and insists on political options that were responsible for the abandonment of productive sectors, territorial, social, demographic and economic imbalances. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, there are several aspects that are the example of this in the PNPOT itself. When we talk about demography and reduction of birth, the deep causes that are associated with this reality are not clearly identified, such as precariousness, low wages, unemployment, difficulty in access to housing. In terms of economic development, we insist on a logic of competition between territories, which we consider to be not positive. In addition, the options that are registered do not correspond to more employment and the best distribution of wealth, do not associate productive dynamics, in the industrial area, transformer, fishing activities, agriculture. Moreover, the role of family agriculture, cooperatives and baldiums is not properly valued, nor is it the importance of the country's food sovereignty. At the level of public services, there are a number of aspects which are neglected, in particular, measures that ensure that there is a need for territorial equity in access to equipment and services. For the CFP, the National Programme for Territorial Planning Policy should have the following assumptions and objectives: to ensure levels of public investment that correspond to the needs of the country's socio-economic development; to value local power and give realisation to regionalisation; to combat the imbalances in the territory through economic activity and employment; to build on the natural resources and productive and extractive capacities in the various territories; to combat social inequalities by valuing work, workers, and strengthening the responses of the various public services; to enhance the location of public investment and the proper use of Community funds; to promote the development of infrastructure generating strategic goods and services throughout the territory; and to promote accessibility and mobility, taking into account the importance of rail, the response of the public transport network, as well as airport structures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u74	Again, you have the floor for an intervention, thus closing this debate, Mr Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I sincerely appreciate VV interventions. Ex.. I will say that, of all the questions that have been raised and that are certainly very relevant, the only thing that cannot be answered within the PNPOT itself is the question put by Mr Soares, because there is a document itself, the Plan for the Management of the Maritime Area, a plan itself, is a fact, and that the law of the basis of the planning of the territory, approved by the previous Government, has so established. Therefore, we cannot place within the PNPOT the planning of the maritime space, we cannot make the design and the planning of the maritime space, with the certainty that — you know the plan — the policy for the sea and the interface between the land and the sea are even central component of this plan. This plan had a very wide public discussion, it is a very process-oriented plan, and it is true that the discussion culture of these matters, as Mr Vilhena also said, is far from what we want. I give a very specific example: in the National Environmental Education Strategy, no applications have ever appeared to us, with this scope being envisaged, in the field of knowledge and appreciation of the territory itself, and these are environmental matters. There is still a very large distance, and no plan like this has prepared this openness to the construction of a new territorial culture. Mr. José Carlos Barros also said Mr. Álvaro Castello-Branco that has evolved a lot since the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2016. It's a fact! At the time, the assessment that the VV Government. Ex. made it say that the plan was okay. And because the plan, in fact, was not right, and the work taught us that it was not right, we had to go beyond what we proposed at the beginning. This is a plan, Mrs Paula Santos, in which all the headquarters of the council are centralities. That cannot be said of the previous plan, which is in force. This is a plan that does not attempt to break or make borders, it does not speak here on the coast or on the inside. It is a plan in which metropolitan areas have a very important role in the internationalisation of the country, in which the medium-sized cities are the fundamental part of a cohesive territory and where the word 'cohesion' appears — although it has not been taken into account — many times, much more than the word 'competitive', is a plan in which it is recognised that there are territories with a great fragility, territories that have to have specific measures. I am sure or, at least, I have strong conviction, of course, that I cannot have, that in fact, in the field of expertise—and the Government is available, if it is challenged by the parliamentary groups, to participate informally in this debate—we will complete the proposal that we have, in order to have an even better proposal, because, I repeat,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u76	Minister, can you conclude?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u77	I conclude now, Madam President. We will complete the proposal that we have, in the sense of having an even better proposal, because, I repeat, of everything that has been said, there is only one question for which the law does not allow me to have an answer, which is the issue of the planning of maritime space. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u78	We are now saying goodbye to the Minister and also to the Secretary of State. We proceed with the fourth item on the agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the Bill No 152 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to lay down the rules to which the XVI General Population Review and the VI General Housing Review ( Census 2021 ) should comply with. To present the bill, Mr. State Secretary of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general population census takes place in Portugal since 1864. From 1970 onwards, it began to be carried out simultaneously with the census of the dwelling, and it is designated as the set of the two statistical operations by censuses. The implementation of the census provides society with a very significant set of information that is used by public and private entities, researchers and citizens in general, allowing strict knowledge of the country's demographic and socio-economic reality, essential to underpin the definition of public policies, the planning of services or investment decisions. The proposal for a legislative authorization law, which we are discussing today, precisely includes the preparation and implementation of the 2021 Censuses, authorizing the Government to legislate on the powers of the municipal chambers, bodies of freguesia and their presidents, on the exercise, in accumulation, of workers performing public functions, paid tasks for support, coordination and control of the work relating to censuses and on the limitation of the exercise of certain rights relating to the processing of personal data, to the extent strictly necessary for the conduct of a statistical operation of this scope. There are essentially two innovations in this proposal, which distinguish it from the 2011 census legislative package: on the one hand, the compatibility of the census process with the recent European legislation on the protection of personal data; on the other hand, the provision of a system of access to administrative data, with the purpose of the transition of a traditional model of the census operation, based on an exhaustive investigation, to a new administrative census model, based on information that the Public Administration already has. For now, in 2021, we will adopt a mixed or combined model, like countries such as the United Kingdom or Germany. We have thus begun a transition that not only follows the trend — the administrative model has already been adopted in nine Member States of the European Union in the latest census — but also ensures an adaptation to the new European regulation, which is in preparation, and according to which from 2024 the census database will be updated annually through administrative information. Another innovation in the 2021 census operation is the amendment of the investigation distribution process. A letter will be sent, with the information necessary to answer via the Internet, as an alternative to the questionnaire distribution process door-to-door. With this, we aim to increase the response rate by electronic means. This possibility was introduced for the first time in the last census in 2011, and Portugal was already one of the countries with one of the largest Internet response rates, around 50 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, either through the use of administrative information already available within the Public Administration, or by taking advantage of information and communication technologies, intend to achieve a reduction in the statistical burden, a simplification of procedures, a reduction in costs with the number of actors in the field work, a lower use of paper and, in short, a greater comfort of the citizens, facilitating and promoting their participation in this important public interest operation which will be the 2021 Census. I am sure this House will share our vision and will join in this genuine national design, authorizing the government to create all the conditions necessary for the success of the Censuses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u80	Let us start with the speeches of the various parliamentary committees. Mr Ernesto Ferraz, by the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Just over two years after the beginning of the collection and processing of statistical information for the 2021 censuses, the Government shall submit to this House the Proposal for Law No 152 / XIII / 4. a, which defines the rules to be followed for the implementation of the XVI General Population Review and VI General Housing Review, proposed this one which received positive opinions from the National Council of Statistics, the National Data Protection Commission, the Regional Assemblys of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, the ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ), the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and already this morning of the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works. In general, the Left Block also does not see technical drawbacks in this bill, as well as in the principles governing this comprehensive information collection process for a deeper and more detailed knowledge of the country that we will have in 2021. We wish to include the ethnoracial issue in order to comply with recommendations from international entities such as the Council of Europe and the UN ( United Nations ), with the aim of developing and increasing, at a later date, public policies to combat all forms of racial discrimination. I would like you to say something in this matter to the Secretary of State about whether it will be in 2021 and where this will be done. With the Census we know how many we are, how we are, where we live and how we live. From the perspective of the Left Block, censuses must become much more than a statistical basis of numbers and facts. They must serve to know the country we have, it is a fact, and, in consonance, to act with policies to reach the country we want. The public investment policies that the country needs cannot continue to be postponed, with all the knowledge that all of us have in a country at different speeds with asymmetries that, instead of breaking down, are increasingly evident, in an increasingly unequal population distribution and with an ever-inverted age pyramid. Portugal urgently needs active policies to address the various economic constraints and, above all, social constraints of the existing reality and proactive policies for it to become more equal and socially just for all. In short, we need sustainability at the most varied levels and for the most diverse territories. For greater equality and for better development, all people can always count on the policy of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u82	Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the last 150 years, the censuses have been the instrument that has most contributed to the statistical characterization of Portuguese society. Launched in 1864, only in the general census of the population, they moved to a period of 10 years from 1890, and finally, in 1970, was adopted the realization simultaneously with the housing census. The general censuses of the population and housing are undoubtedly the largest and most important source of national information on population, family and housing. This information is fundamental to the rigorous knowledge of the demographic and socio-economic reality of our country. On the basis of this knowledge, the power-CL will define more appropriate public policies to Portuguese reality. It is therefore necessary to ensure the environment, resources and resources that are essential for a technically incensorable and operationally efficient work. As in previous censuses, the 2021 censuses will also mobilize an important number of human resources that need to be used rationally and effectively. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this initiative, the Government requires authorization to lay down the rules to which it must comply with 16. the general population review and the 6. the General Review of Housing, i.e., intends to legislate to provide the appropriate framework to the censuses 2021. The censuses have always been the subject of their own legislation, which aims to regulate not only its implementation but also the competences of the entities involved in the process of preparing, implementing and disseminating results. With the approval of this initiative, the Government shall be authorised to legislate on the competences of local authorities and their presidents. It is also authorised that workers who perform public functions can accumulate paid public functions for support, coordination and control of census work. It should be noted that the information collected through questionnaires is protected by the principles of the National Statistical System Act and the exercise of rights is provided for in the Regulation of the European Union on the protection of personal data and on the free movement of such data, as already mentioned by the Secretary of State. In addition, the relevant consultations were conducted with entities such as the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ), the Higher Council of Statistics ( CSE ) and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), which issued their opinions, concluding in a global way that nothing is to be opposed. Thus, the Socialist Party, recognizing the importance of census information as an essential tool in the adequacy of responses to the needs of Portuguese society, is in favour of this legislative authorization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u84	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Censuses are one of the most relevant social, economic and political instruments for a nation, in the Portuguese case a perfect nation state. Knowing how many we are, where we are, where and under what conditions we live is essential for any decision on public policy. When we plan public services, when we plan transport networks, when we plan, for example, the education network or the health network, take into account the population, its dynamics of growth or decrease is essential. at a time when, in fact, we have a lot of discussion about the issues and problems of the interior of the country, it is essential that we always know what is happening from a statistical point of view in this very interior. in another sense, for example in the Assembly of the Republic, the distribution of Members by circle also depends on these censuses and on the accounting of the population. But, of course, the importance of a census goes far beyond the pure decision of public policy, since even for an investor, even for the economy and economic agents, the realization of a census and the knowledge of its data are essential to project investments. That's exactly why Portugal has been doing it for a long time. A country that has a long history like Portugal also has a long history of population censusing. We did it with the Role of Besties, still in the reign of D. Afonso III — the first accounting we did for the purpose of war. There was the 1838 census, the so-called « Census of Liberalism » and other very important censuses such as the Marquis de Abrantes, the Pina Manique census or the census of the Count of Liners. However, since 1864, we have internationally harmonized censuses that allow us to compare what is happening in Portugal with a larger scale, which is a European scale, international. From 1970 onwards, we joined the population census. The last census was carried out in 2011 — censuses usually take place once a decade in the first year of that same decade — and it is very important that we learn from the planning errors that have occurred. First of all, we must have the notion that, in a census, there is a centrality of local authorities, both municipal chambers and bodies of parish, and this implies that the materials, the training of technicians, the very definition of the circles in which the census is going to take place are made in a timely manner and in a great dialogue with the authorities themselves. For this reason, Parliament, in addition to mandatory hearings, also heard the ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ), an element that was very useful. I leave a second note on the clarity and simplicity of the census. A census which is very obscure in its formulation will always give answers that, in the end, will not be correct. We would like to leave these two alerts to the government right now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u86	Mr Fatima Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is intended to authorize the Government to lay down the rules to which it must comply with 16. the general population review and the 6. the housing. The set of these statistical operations is normally designated by censuses and therefore we are talking about the 2021 censuses. We have already congratulated the Government on the improvements it intends to make, particularly with regard to data protection legislation, as well as the greater use of computer tools. We also thank all the entities who have spoken on these matters, in particular all the contributions they have made and which will certainly help to improve information in the light of the recent censuses. We call on the people and entities who will be involved in the census to participate and grant greater rigour and transparency to this whole process. The performance of censuses is of great importance to the country, as has already been said. Strict knowledge of the structural characteristics of our society is essential for decision-making by both political decision-makers and private entities. It is important to know the demographic and socio-economic characteristics of the population so that it can be reflected in relation to what we are and where we want to go, as well as for the possibility of correcting paths that may not eventually be running in the best sense. It is very important that we have the ability to detect problems and opportunities, as I said, by returning information that is, in fact, serious and rigorous. The PSD agrees with this proposal for legislative authorisation and, of course, is in its interest, because it is, in fact, extremely important for public and private policies. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the information of nothing is useful if it is not actually used and not used to correct paths. In this regard, it should be noted that we are facing a process involving authorities, citizens and the State. This is a process that requires a great deal of effort from everyone, which involves serious financial resources, but whose effort will be great if we just look at the data and not correct what is wrong and not empower what is right. When we look at the data, we see that in fact the situation in Portugal has not evolved in the way expected when it was April 25, in particular because we have an increasingly deserted interior. The government announces domestic investments, but the fact is that these investments are very low. People leave the interior because they have no work, because they have no possibility of living there with the resources they deserve to live with. That makes them leave the interior. Then we look at the Portuguese economy and we see it grow, it grows 2, 7%. The government is happy, but the economy of other countries is growing much more. That is, we need to grow more, we need to create more wealth to have sustainable social systems. It is important for the government to look at these data and correct the paths when they are not on the right track. These are just a few examples, but the question of demography is another. Portugal loses too many people and a country without people is a country without a future, so it is important to look at it and actually create measures and not to rule on the foam of the days, not only with timely measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u88	Where's the census going?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u89	In fact, this trend must be reversed. And do not come to say that it is the fault of the previous government, because in the last 20 years the Socialist Party has been a lot more years in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u90	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u91	I would rather not attribute guilt and want to work to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u92	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In returning to the censuses in the debate of this bill of legislative authorization on the regulatory framework of the 2021 censuses, we take into account the great importance of the information to be obtained in this process. As the Higher Council of Statistics has well pointed out, it is concerned with determining measures to support decision-making, in particular with regard to public policies and, in addition to the CSE, « reference information on the population and the housing park in its various aspects as well as its socio-economic situation at national, regional and local level ». We note that the Government's proposal aims to create the conditions for this operation to suit itself, from the outset, in the application of a general criterion, which is that of the conduct of actions on the ground by the authorities in their territory. Here it is worth taking into account the concrete experience of previous censuses and the analysis that this experience exists, as is the case, for example, of the balance sheet carried out—it has not been mentioned, but it has been addressed in previous interventions—by the National Association of Freguesias, which, in the opinion issued on this bill, develops a noteworthy reflection on what it designates by lapses, gaps and defects of the experiences, with particular and natural emphasis on the 2011 censuses. What is the main innovation of the 2021 censuses? It is the fact that information and communication technologies are now primarily used, with a different census model, which is based on the rule that the answer to investigations should be given preferably via the Internet, not excluding other means of collection, in particular paper questionnaires. Firstly, it is assumed that this innovation can contribute to overcoming some of these problems such as those identified by ANAFRE. However, we note as a positive element the content of the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission not only as regards the adequacy of the legislation proposed by the Government, but also from then on as regards the productive work over several years carried out between the CNPD and the National Statistical Institute. The question that arises here is the imperative need to ensure that censuses are effectively general censuses of the population and housing and that the very important source of information that they will provide is preserved in their exhaustive character, either as regards data, or as regards the reality that is portrayed in them. hence the importance of the mixed or combined model. In other words, it is important to ensure that digitisation does not mean exclusion, as has happened so many times. It is from these lessons of the past that we should, as a country, better prepare this large-scale statistical operation that will be the 2021 censuses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u94	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, as a result of this debate, it is clear that there is a very broad consensus on the importance of the census operation. In fact, it is an essential operation to give us critical information with a view to making a series of decisions, to enable us to get to know better who we are, how we are, how we live, having no doubt a very broad understanding of the importance of this operation. I'll just talk about the operation of the Census and not its content. Fortunately, the last Census took place in 2011 ; if it had been carried out in 2015 or 2016, perhaps the results would denote the effects of certain policies that were carried out in the beginning of the decade. But speaking of censuses, which is what we are talking about, there is consensus as to the importance of this operation and the importance of it being well prepared. It is a recognizedly complex, vast operation and must therefore be prepared in a timely manner. So here we have presented, quite in advance, this bill, which rightly aims to create the legal, logistical, administrative and organizational conditions necessary for this operation to succeed. I believe it is useful to verify that in this House we all agree to provide conditions for this operation to suit, strictly, in order to provide us with solid and credible data so that we can use them in policy formulation. The importance of local authorities has been emphasized here by the honourable Members. Deputies Bruno Dias and Pedro Mota Soares. Without a doubt, it is indisputable, and it is absolutely essential, therefore the planning of the intervention of the chambers, of the boards in this process consists of this legislative authorization. The importance of information technologies has also been mentioned. This new model, which is much more Internet-based, I believe makes life easier for citizens and, above all, for INEs and those who will then work on the data. A question was asked about the content and possible inclusion in the questionnaire of an ethnic-racial question. On this matter I would say that it is premature to speak. The questionnaire is not closed; there is, in fact, a working group that is studying precisely the insertion or not of this question in the questionnaire. It is a very large, technical working group, which has the participation of different entities. We are waiting for the outcome of this work, so it is premature at this time to make a decision, because we want the decision to be taken to be anchored in this technical work that is being developed and, indeed, the content of the specific variables that will be questioned in the investigation will be defined in due course by the Higher Council of Statistics, in a technical and rigorous manner, as it should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u96	Having concluded this item on our agenda, we are saying goodbye to the Secretary of State of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 146 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the scheme for access and exercise of sports coach activity. I call on the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport to introduce the debate
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u97	Madam President, my colleague, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, Law No. 40 / 2012 established the Access to Exercise of Sports Trainer Activity. After five years of the approval of this scheme, it was decided by the Government to promote an assessment of the impact of its application. To this end, we have promoted a wide earmarking to its recipients, i.e. trainers, sports federations, higher education institutions and training institutions, and the result of this evaluation has pointed out the need to adapt this diploma to the national sports reality that is living today and to have the state most involved in monitoring the system. In fact, we have identified a considerable decrease in the frequency of their courses, which has resulted in the difficulty of clubs fulfilling their regulatory obligations, particularly in clubs in the interior of the country, given the complexity and extent of curricula and degrees of courses. The need for speeding up the scheme was realized in a set of recommendations that effectively justify, from our point of view, the amendment now proposed. The proposals focus mainly on these needs that I have identified: the structure, organization and objectives of the scheme, access to the degrees of trainers, the definition of continuing training and the monitoring of the application of this scheme. Thus, and summarizing the main measures proposed, I would like to highlight: the agileization of the structure of continuing training, through the reformulation of professional profiles and the reduction of periods between degrees; also, and very important, support for dual careers, allowing practitioners to frequent the curricular part of the training of trainers during their course as athletes, without the need for internship; support for post-training, aiming at facilitating the transition of careers of high-level former athletes to trainers; the enhancement of the training offer provided by higher education institutions for the purposes of access to the professional title of trainer; and, finally, the allocation of supervisory competence to ESAE, to the extent that it seems to us that the effectiveness in the application of the law and its guarantee will, in fact, be more facilitated with the intervention of ASEA, since so far, it competes with the sports federations in this supervision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Leonel Costa has the floor. The Bureau is particularly pleased to welcome this first intervention in Parliament. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u99	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are discussing the first amendment to the system of access and exercise of sports coach activity. This proposal, according to the Government, arises as a necessity to bring the regime, already five years old, into line with the current reality of our sport system. the explanatory statement shows that « this evaluation process was initiated by the auscultation of the sports system partners ». But what partners were these and what contributions did they make? It is that from the proposal that Mr. Secretary of State has signed, there is no contribution or opinion. However, we are aware that some entities have been consulted at the beginning of August, traditionally a holiday period, and only five days have been granted to decide on this proposal. Of course, this situation has led to a great deal of disappointment, with some of the entities sent, so we know, very small contributions and others, even refusing to make any contribution, because they did not really like the way the government conducted this process, preventing them from making a thoughtful reflection and presenting valid contributions. This situation shows once again that the Government considers ‘auscultation of the sports partners’ to be a mere formality, showing itself indifferent to the real interests of the sports agents. Mrs. Members, the truth is that the activity of a sports coach deserves special attention because of its sensitivity and constant change, and periodic re-evaluations of the current regime are necessary. In fact, the PSD has been beating itself up for this, but without a great reception from the government, which now acts, at the end of the legislature, a little in a hurry and slamming. One example of this is that, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement, which alerts the demands and complexity of this profession, the government embarks on some facilitations that ultimately lead to the contempt and vulgarization of these professionals. This proposal uses abstract criteria, which, in its implementation, will lead to enormous confusion. I give an example of the issue of conditional titles which, despite the need for — and I praise the measure — actually contain assumptions of allocation which are not properly implemented. This amendment also includes a duplication of supervisory bodies, which also seems to me to cause confusion: on the one hand, ASAE and, on the other hand, sports federations. In conclusion, I am going to challenge the other banks, so that we can, in our specialty, do the work that seems to me — the government did not want or know how to do: listen to the relevant entities, improving this proposal and correcting weaknesses and incongruence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u100	Mr Leonel Costa, we wish you, once again, much happiness in your parliamentary work. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I also congratulate the PSD on his first intervention. At a good time, the Government submits a bill and precisely because it is a bill that gives the Assembly of the Republic, the House of Democracy the opportunity to change, discuss and improve. That's exactly why we're here. The Government could have made a decree which we could then, by Parliament's assessment alone, change. We therefore have an opportunity today to have an open debate, which is not only in the hands of the Government and, from now on, in the hands of the Assembly of the Republic. This discussion is not new, there is a long path already taken by various governments, several legislatures, with regard to national training programmes for trainers. There have also been several changes in 2012, but also in previous legislation, which have changed the working models of the training of this national training programme and therefore we have not yet been able to find a more reasonable and more concrete regime than it would be necessary to do in these years. This does not mean that the Government's proposal today does not bring any improvements; we think it does. These improvements can be ensured more effectively in the specialty process that we will do in 12. the Commission, in particular with regard to the issue of the separation of powers between ASAE and sporting entities: to understand exactly what supervision each of these entities does; the relationship of higher education institutions with the academic federations and the professionals concerned, i.e. to understand the question of professional title; the transition from the career of highly competitive sportsmen to the transition to trainers, which is another of the issues that may possibly be improved in the process of specialty. I would also like to highlight the following: the world of sport changes very quickly. Looking at the reality of the national sport of five or ten years ago, especially of the high-competitive sport, and seeing today's reality, we see that these regimes need to update faster than perhaps another type of legislation that passes through this House. In the world of sport there are new contexts, there are administrative, political and social changes and, therefore, it makes sense that the Assembly of the Republic can also participate in this process. For example, looking at one of the criticisms that was put on the table in 2012, which was precisely related to the number of hours of training per year to which professionals were required, some thought it was too much — if we look at the example of other countries, the Portuguese case is what has the most hours per year — and that is another of the discussions that may also be on the table in the specialty. With the Government, certainly open to this debate, I would not make a bill in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u102	On behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the discussion in 2012 of the bill that gave rise to Law No. 40 / 2012, the CFP stated that it did not agree with the mercantillization of the title of coach. We reiterate what we then said and also stated that any law that is to be published in this area must respond to the reality of professional sport, but also of amateur sport, and must take into account the specificities of the different modalities. The truth is that a significant part of our country's trainers—maybe the overwhelming majority—is made up of amateur coaches: a reality that has to be respected and valued in law, especially taking into account the personal sacrifices made by many trainers who, being in reality amateur, do so exclusively—there is—for love of fashion. It is also worth noting that these trainers invest their purse in training to obtain the title and certifications to which they are required by law. They're considerable charges. In fact, we stress one of the concerns that the CFP has about the proposed amendments. In the law still in force, the coach is obliged to attend continuing training actions every five years so that his title as a sports coach will not expire. Now, this period is down to three years. It's important to know why. in this context, we point out another thing: there may be those who do not frequent continuing training because they do not have economic conditions to support it and the economic realities of trainers, clubs, modalities, even from region to region, are quite different. The CFP argues that there can be no situation where a coach loses his title because he has no money to pay for the training. It would also be important to understand why the reference to Physical Education was withdrawn in higher professional technical courses, undergraduates and masters taught by higher education institutions. It is true that there is a point of recognition of professional and academic competences that are determined by the office of the President of the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth ). However, what this bill allows you to interpret, at least at first reading, is that someone who, for example, has a master's degree in Physical Education in basic and secondary education may have to attend and pay for another training that enables you to meet the requirements for access to the professional title of a sports coach. It would therefore be important, Mr Secretary of State, that this question could be clarified. As there may be improvements with this bill, we also understand that it is possible to further improve the legislation of access and exercise of sports trainer activity, a debate for which the CFP will contribute in the specialty. Until we have conducted, not long ago, a public hearing on the situation of trainers in our country, in which we have reported many concerns felt by trainers of various modalities, as well as solutions that we will take into account in the intervention to do in the specialty on this bill. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u104	Mr John Castro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u105	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Sport is widely recognized as a facilitator of the promotion of decisive values and attitudes for the development of society. When properly oriented, sports promote physical, psychic and social development, muscle strengthening, bone and joint strengthening, prevention of diseases such as obesity, diabetes, osteoporosis or risk of cardiovascular accidents; increases self-esteem in the relationship of the individual with his or her body and the other. It promotes the development of social ties, of sharing feelings and objectives, with a strong sense of belonging, of the need for consultation and conjugation of efforts, but also cooperation, the sharing of objectives, respect for rules and the other, recognition of error, friendship, justice, equality, competition, victory, multiculturality, dealing with failure, dedication, effort or overcoming. However, participation alone does not mean that such purposes are achieved. It highlights, in its pursuit, the way learning is structured and supervised. Thus, the trainer assumes himself as an essential agent in the sport process, in the development of motor, cognitive, emotional and social skills. Several studies and authors even point to the importance of the trainer's activity, focused on responsibilities, knowledge and dedication, for consistent and appropriate training. With Bill No 146 / XIII / 3. the, the Government proposes changes to the access and exercise of sports trainer activity, considering the impact assessment of the implementation of the regime in force since 2012. this evaluation resulted in the need to expedite access to career and progression among its different degrees, as well as a greater involvement of the state in the process. in this context, the proposals presented concern the structure, organization and objectives, access to the degrees of trainer, the definition of continuing training, the monitoring of its application, with measures such as the agileization of the structure of continuing training, support for dual careers, support for post-care, the enhancement of the training offer provided by higher education institutions or the allocation of supervisory competence to ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ). Portugal recorded in 2017 a financing of formal sports practice in the order of EUR 40 million, of which EUR 620 thousand for the formation of human resources for a universe of 624 thousand athletes, with 363 thousand in training stages for 69 sports federations, 11,700 clubs, 13,584 referees or judges, 34 000 leaders and 18,593 trainers. This initiative can of course be best reflected in the specialty. However, the principles, values and numbers seem to speak for themselves on the assumption that the requirement and complexity of this activity, aiming at better intervention, implies a permanent need for improvement in the quality and robust training of trainers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u106	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u107	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Lawmakers about sports coaches have several challenges that are not easy to reconcile. The first of all — already mentioned here — is the distinction between professional sports and amateur sports, which, of course, also involves completely different realities, not only from practitioners, but also from trainers. Then, because the role of the trainer and the nature of the formation of it also differs, of course, in each mode. That is why it is justified that legislation which is recent and that should, firstly, deserve some stability, be reviewed and improved. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP has nothing against the revision of the law, although it has been running short since its last amendment. What we think is crucial is that in the points which the Government has chosen to amend, since the explanatory statement to the amendments in particular, it is possible to improve what exists. These points are relatively consensual in relation to their identification, but they may or may not be in relation to the solutions. The first question is access. Obviously, access, i.e. the number of hours of training, is a very important criterion for discussion and international comparison can also be one of the points that will make us realize whether we are following what should be best practice. Then we have to look at the existing reality. We can never artificially create in the law something that, from a practical point of view, has nothing to do with what exists today, in particular — which has already been mentioned — in amateur sports and which ignores the nature of coach training in amateur sports. We cannot suddenly insist on a law that excludes those who currently have such an important role in the training and training of athletes. Another thing that is also important for trainers has to do with dual careers and the transition between sports activity, and, specifically, between the high-competitive activity and the performance of functions as trainer. This transition has had some problems in some modalities and, of course, a law that is currently being reviewed must also take this into account. With regard to supervision, we have many doubts that the solution to introduce ASAE into supervision can indeed be beneficial, because what can never be withdrawn is the supervisory role of the federations — they will always have to have that supervisory role, as a result of their autonomy. Entering here another administrative entity may bring problems. Mr Secretary of State, you will have the full availability of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for specialized work, with the recognition that it will probably be important for the Assembly of the Republic to be able to know what the Government has done in the preparatory work of this bill, so that we know what the different actors can tell us, and that some problems, which have, like all the problems in sport, the greatest expression in sport with greater visibility — in this case, football — are resolved, so that we do not have any public and notorious situations surrounding laws and regulations. It is that, of both: either the law is not well done and therefore deserves to be changed; or the outline and attempt to cheat the law is completely illegitimate and has to be punished, and cannot be accepted without this happening. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u108	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their contribution in the various interventions, stressing the willingness to introduce improvements in this proposed amendment to the so-called Coach Law. There is, however, one aspect which I would like to comment on in more detail. In particular, I would like to welcome Mr Leonel Costa for his first intervention in this House and tell him that, if his objective was to cause some perplexity, he has achieved the objective. The honourable Member said that the government did not pay due attention to the sector and I would like to tell you that the Portuguese Institute for Sport and Youth did not only make an internal evaluation of this legal regime as it later requested an external evaluation. I would say that the consultation that has been made to more than 60 entities is not parallel and was, in fact, unprecedented. I can tell you that more than 75 meetings have been held with sports federations, with higher education institutions, with trainers' associations — the Confederation of Trainers of Portugal, the Olympic Committee, the Paralympic Committee. I myself, Mr President, tabled this amendment to the law in the National Sport Council, and the various advisers were asked to present suggestions. So, honourable Member, from the point of view of hearing, I believe that we are being discussed. It is clear, as was stated here, that this is a law that has to manage balances between, on the one hand, professional sports and amateur sports. We understand that this balance is precisely reflected in this proposed amendment to the law, which does not mean that the intervention of the Members. Members cannot bring any improvements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u110	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u111	Mr President, in conclusion, and replying to Mrs Ana Mesquita, who asked why the reduction in the number of years of training cycles had been reduced, I would say that — this was a cross-cutting complaint — by allowing continuing training to take place in five-year cycles to build up many hours of training. Therefore, reducing the number of years can reduce the number of hours and thus facilitate access to training. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u112	Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to report on diplomas which, however, have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following bills: No 1033 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June, allowing access to the identity of the donor of gametes or embryos by persons born as a result of assisted medical procreation processes, which falls to 9. the Commission in connection with 1. the Commission ; points 1038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the Income Insurance Legal Scheme, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1039 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates a programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1040 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the lease guarantee fund, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1041 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the exclusion of taxation of the amounts of compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of taxable persons with low RABC, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 1042 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August for the redefinition of the terms of operation of the National Housing Commission, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1043 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The sixth amendment is made to the new Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 for the improvement of the national lease and allocation of new social solutions, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1044 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 156 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 for the allocation of a lease allowance for numerous and single-parent families, which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1045 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal regime of urban lease for the purposes of qualification, education and training, which falls to 11. the Commission ; and No 1046 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential incomes, which falls to 11. the Commission. The draft resolution No 1881 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends strengthening European humanitarian aid to Venezuelan refugee citizens in order to find a comprehensive and responsible solution to support their integration into the countries of origin in the European Union, which falls to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u114	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Petition No 440 / XIII / 3. a ( ABIC — Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ) — They request the adoption of measures for the application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July 2017. Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group or, first of all, compliment the scientific research fellowships and ABIC ( Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ), which today accompany this discussion on a very important petition. It is also important to highlight the path made here. In 2016, the Government submitted a decree of law, Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, the content of which contains a set of intentions that then did not comply. It is precisely because it failed to comply with the fact that several parliamentary groups in this House have presented parliamentary opinions containing proposals for amendment to this same decree. A very important process was opened, perhaps one of the most important processes which the Committee on Education and Science has carried out, of amendment to a law that could affect the lives of thousands of scientific research fellows in our country. The Assembly of the Republic had the courage to change a number of issues that were initially reflected in the decree and which, here in the House of Democracy, we were able to improve substantially. Funding entirely by the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation), the issue of opening a tender at the end of six years of contract, the question of changing the transitional standard which guarantees more rights to these scientific research scholarships, all these issues have been worked out here. And it was all this work, done here in the Assembly of the Republic, which ensured a more effective response to the fight against precariousness by scientific research fellows. At the end of the parliamentary review process and published Law No 57 / 2017, we then had a period of application of the law not only by higher education institutions but also by the Government and the Foundation for Science and Technology. It should be said here that the fact that the FCT has been in the course of these years with a policy of captivating, that we here have had the opportunity to criticize, made the application of the same law initially awkward. It also happened that, even at the time when higher education institutions applied the law, not everything was being done well—in fact, there are still moments of wrong application of the law today, and it is precisely about that that ABIC makes a petition here with thousands of signatures. It presents it because, first of all, there is a lack of supervision and, before supervision exists, there must above all be control by the FCT, which guarantees the payment of these contracts and which is therefore the first administrative and political responsibility for the process. Secondly, there is a direct political responsibility of the Government, which also has the ability to ensure that the application of Law No 57 / 2017 is well or poorly achieved. But above all, it must also not be left to the higher education institutions and precisely their directions to feel at ease, in particular to hire teachers or to guarantee the progress of teachers with money coming from the FCT.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u117	I will finish, Mr. President. So we accompany ABIC's concerns. We have already had the opportunity to present a draft resolution in this House, approved by a majority in this plenary, precisely by the correct application of Law No 57 / 2017 and the Left Block here will also be to make a successive and progressive political supervision of that same application. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the petitioners, who subscribe to Petition No 440 / XIII / 4. the, by the application of Law No 57 / 2017, concerning the doctoral contracting regime designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge. I recall that this petition originated last year, whose signature collection period took place more than one year ago, ending with the delivery in this House in December 2017. Since then, a lot has passed and been resolved. We understand that, at the time, this initiative made sense, but, however, several inquiries were made, particularly by the Ministry, transmitting instructions to the Foundation for Science and Technology, in order to progress the processes. At present, beyond the constraints, all the competitions have been opened and the procedures are taking place naturally. I would like to stress that the issues relating to scientific employment and the fight against job insecurity in the scientific environment have taken special attention in the current legislation, in contrast to what happened in the previous right-wing governance. Fortunately today, it is recognised that investment in human resources in this area is essential to ensure the increase in the qualification of Portuguese and scientific employment in Portugal, and the process of convergence for Europe of Knowledge is resumed, while errors in the past are corrected. We understand a society with more knowledge, which is an engine of value generation, both economic and social, where scientific employment is, in fact, a vector of approach to the activity of our companies and our various institutions. Thus, in the last three years, several initiatives have been aimed at formalizing and dignifying the scientific employment of doctors in Portugal. I would like to highlight the Stimulation Program for Scientific Employment, which provides for the hiring of 5000 doctors, up to the end of the Legislature, through the various instruments supporting the hiring of doctors by the Foundation for Science and Technology. Much more is being implemented, in terms of strengthening investment in science and higher education, which will also involve the hiring of doctors — and, for example, only the INTERFACE Programme, which includes the encouragement to the creation of Collaborative Laboratories, whose main objective is to generate, directly and indirectly, qualified employment and scientific employment. All these measures reflect the strategy of valorisation and dignity that this Government has given to scientific employment that integrates, in coherence, with a scientific and higher education policy, oriented towards objectives to meet the scientific and societal challenges that lie at European and global level. We are indeed faced with a paradigm shift in Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the subscribers of Petition No 440 / XIII / 3. the, requiring the application of Law No 57 / 2017, the law of scientific employment. In fact, the petition entered in January 2018 and at the time expressed concern about the too slow and complex process of application of the law which at this time called into question its own end. Since then, with Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party said a lot has passed. And much has happened with the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, such as with the approval here in Parliament of Law No 24 / 2018 of 8 June, to try to mitigate the impact of successive delays that ABIC reported on the life of the pockets, especially as regards the transitional standard. But the process does not naturally take place, as various problems and risks persist. First of all, of the 1915 open invitations to tenders, in fact, only 128 resulted in contracts, which means an execution rate of 7 %. And although the Minister likes to present the number of 2000 jobs actually created, we are 93% of that result. And why does that happen? To a large extent — and this is the second problem — because higher education institutions do not have a predictability of three or six years on the financial support of the charges they will have to assume, even if they are to be guarded by the FCT. But between what is written and the certainty of the moment the FCT makes the transfer, it is generating a first impasse. The third problem concerns competitions that have not been opened, i.e. those for which the FCT does not guarantee funding since the pockets were paid through projects. Who will now assume the cost of these contracts? Nobody knows. from there the second impasse that is generated. The fourth problem has to do with the lack of transparency and overlap of instruments. at the same time as the transitional norm of Law No 57 / 2017, an individual contest was opened and PREVPAP is under way. Many medical and post-doctoral fellows have competed on the three routes and now there will be a need to clarify what is the process and what is the way it applies to them, generating a new impasse. Therefore, in the midst of all this, the guardianship and the FCT state, at the same time, that the goal of the 5000 scientific employment contracts has already been achieved, at the same time that they also say fear that in some areas there are not even enough doctors to fill so many vacancies. They say something and their opposite at the same time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u122	The CDS always said that this law had the right motivation, but it established the wrong process. The reality has come to confirm that. And what is needed now, regardless of this initial vision of the CDS, is that the guardianship, the FCT and the institutions find a solution to comply with the law, respect the expectations that have been created to the pockets and ensure the financial sustainability of the institutions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes ABIC, the fellows and subscribers of the petition on the application of the law of scientific employment and, more specifically, on the application of the transitional standard. It is a long process, in defense of the right of researchers to a contract of employment, and a process that has not yet been completed. And it didn't end because there are, in fact, problems to be solved. One of these problems—and perhaps the biggest one at this time—is related to the public funds pockets. The complaints were carried out on the failure to open invitations to tender for the non-FCT-funded fellows or not fully or directly or indirectly financed. And this is a problem that, in fact, needs to be solved. The ABIC itself reported, even yesterday, cases in institutions such as the universities of Algarve, Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Lisbon, Nova de Lisboa, Madeira, Minho, Porto, State Laboratories, particularly in the IPMA and LNEC, of situations that still remain to be resolved. And the concern is expressed, in particular, in the light of the statements in the debate on the budget, the Minister for Protection, which, as it appears, has made it clear that these cases will hardly be resolved under the law. Well, that can't be! These pockets have the right to see their situation resolved, they have the right to a contract of employment, the institutions must comply with the law, the government must ensure that the law is complied with! In addition, the successive delays in the application of the law and the transitional standard, in fact, caused confusion and chaos, with pockets having to apply for several contests simultaneously, desperately trying to get some way out of their precarious situation, at the same time gaining the stimulus to individual scientific employment and the transitional standard. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the limit, this can create a problem that is the fact that there are contracts that will be to be completed at the same time there are people who need them. This doesn't make any sense! What this whole process proves is that the basic proposal of the CFP is the only one that can give the right and full response to the global problem of scientific employment. The solution must go through integration into the research career, appreciation, end of scholarships and precarious contracts, end of research scholarship status and recognition of all workers in the science of the right to an effective bond. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not take up the recurring arguments here that many of these workers are actually in training, because the truth is that they produce work, scientific work that makes the country move forward and all the work these workers produce must be recognized, considered and paid as such. These workers certainly have the right to stability in employment, according to what the Constitution also provides, they have the right to a contract of work and the CFP will do everything to make that a reality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u125	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject we have a situation which, I would say, is almost unpublished. contrary to what is usual, the proposals of parliamentary initiatives of the various parties appear long before the discussion of the petition. This petition, which has more than 4000 signatures, exists because there are a set of pockets and several associations that have joined together to defend the pockets that have been so forgotten by the practice of this government. The fact is that Parliament has put forward the measures proposed by the petition itself, Parliament has virtually no disagreement about the need to resolve this matter, the various parties speak virtually in the same voice, with different nuances, and it is also the case that there is money in the State budget to finance the fight against the precariousness of the pockets. Even so, with a political consensus, a clear will of all and announced by the government itself, we cannot resolve the situation. The institutions, some, fulfil their role, others, or so; the government has money in the State budget to fund this policy and the Foundation for Science and Technology does not meet, creates bureaucracy and prevents even the pockets from having a contract for the number of obstacles, bureaucracy and obstacles it poses. This is a sui generis case. Parliament rarely agrees, and in this case it agrees, there is rarely money and in this case there is money. What's missing? We need to take this into account, because otherwise we do not understand what Parliament is for. Parliament has already fulfilled its role, repeatedly perfected a law that was proposed by the Government. We all agree on solving the problem. The pockets are laughing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u127	It's funny! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u128	...because, although we all want, we can't solve it. Where's the problem? The problem is again in the Government's lack of will to bring its speech to a practice, in the bureaucracy of the FCT, which once again harms the pockets, proving again that what is approved here in the State Budget, which is approved by this House, then does not correspond to the practice of the Government. We have a speech and a practice. We've heard of flying cows and even those who wanted to plant pineapple on the moon or on Mars. The truth is, in this question, very specifically, we are talking about arriving at NASA, of aerospace projects and strategies and we are not even dealing with our home, of the most basic, of the simplest, of what unites us, which is to give dignity to researchers fellows. Whoever promises worlds and funds and does not even deal with what is simpler, is not talking about the dream of neither hope nor vision, is deceiving people with reality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of point 6 of the agenda of this plenary meeting and have now entered point 7 of the opinion of Petition No 241 / XIII / 2. a ( CGTP-IN-General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion ) — Ensuring the right to collective bargaining, repealing the standard of expiry of collective agreements, ensuring the right of negotiation in the Public Administration, together with, in general, the Drafts of Law Nos 1021 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1022 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective bargaining in the business public sector and 1025 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, by 14 amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February in general. Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cleaning workers who clean the Palace of S. Bento every morning, but also trains, banks, faculties, ministries, are 10 years without salary increases, earn 3, 60€ / hour and have a lunch allowance of 1, 80€. There were hundreds of thousands of workers who benefited from the increases in the minimum wage, but there are also hundreds of thousands who face the freezing of their income because collective bargaining is blocked. In the case of cleaning, this is what happens, by choosing the employer association but also because the law protects these behaviors instead of preventing them and stimulating negotiation. in this, as in many other sectors, the possibility given to employers to unilaterally expire a collective convention, making it happen empty, is the brute form of blackmail that debalances and distorts any negotiation process. There is no real negotiation when one of the parties is given « knife and cheese ». This emptying of collective bargaining is an attack on democracy, without it promoting the fragility of those who live from their work and today, there is no doubt, the labor code scandalously favours the strongest part in the labour relationship. That's what you have to change. In 2010 there were more than 1, 5 million workers covered by collective conventions, in 2014 they became less than 250 thousand. Expiration, crisis, the institution of a faster and easier process for employers to burst with the conventions and changes made in 2012 on the scope portals introduced a blackmail dynamics in labor relations, limited the number of workers covered and degraded the content of the conventions. In recent years, there has certainly been a very important growth in employment resulting from economic growth and income recovery. But what employment, with what protection, with what rights, with what framework, with what salary? It tells us that the government has increased the number of conventions published — and it is true — and that around 820,000 workers are covered today — is true. But there are three data that are unforgettable: the first is that the dynamics is increasingly moving to the level of company agreements; the second is that the number of workers covered by collective bargaining is too far, it is about half, than before the crisis in 2008, I repeat, less than half that in 2008 ; the third is that the combination of expiry with the possibility of a convention have less favourable rules than the general law has an obvious consequence, the degradation of the contents of the new conventions. This employer abuse of expiry is not just a result of wrong practice, it is authorized by law, and that is why the law needs to be changed. There is no wall on which the Socialist Party can remain: or he wants to maintain the imbalance that exists or wants to change. And the Socialist Party's commitment in this area has been to the bosses. In maturity, but not only, the most favourable treatment principle for the worker must also be restored. Does it make any sense to have conventions with content that gives less rights to the worker than the general law? Don't do it! We therefore welcome the thousands of workers who have addressed this petition to Parliament and the trade unionists who are present. Your requirement is also ours and that is why we present the bills. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u131	Mr Valter Loios of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. It is the first speech that you make in this plenary, and I therefore welcome you and wish you an excellent job.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners, the CGTP, as well as their delegation here present, and the thousands of workers who have subscribed to this petition. The more than 80,000 signatures collected require each Member to decide on the constitutional fulfilment of the right to collective bargaining as a decisive factor in improving the working and living conditions of workers. in this legislature we brought here this matter four times, the last in March, having always been plunged by PS, PSD and CDS. There is a serious problem with collective recruitment and blackmail about expiry. It is not permissible for employers'associations to address trade unions in each contract to say: 'or agree to reduce duties or go to expiry'. We have brought many examples of requests for expiry of the various sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u134	In 2016, the notice of cessation of the operation concerning the Petrogal business agreement was published, attacking rights and creating a destabilization situation that continues without solution, demanding the persistence of the workers' struggle.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u136	In the electrical industries, collective contracting has been without solution for several years, as is the case with the collective contract of work of electrical and electronic material. We see Tyco, in Évora, who is only the largest employer in the district, with more than 1500 workers. In order to apply concentrated hours of 12 hours daily, hourly bank and adaptability, the more favourable contract than guarantee rights has expired, by administratively applying the contract of the retrofit negotiated with UGT. Tyco uses repression and blackmail to impose illegalities. Evidence of this is the conviction of the Evora Court which obliges Tyco to pay for the holidays stolen, giving reason to the SISI (Sendicato de Industrias electrices do Sul e Ilhas ), the union of the CGTP, recognizing that all workers are entitled to 22 days of vacation, regardless of the time they practice. This, like other examples, shows that, regardless of the cut of expiry, workers resist and struggle to guarantee rights enshrined in the collective labour contract and conquer new rights. We have addressed a word of confidence, we reaffirm that we will do everything in our power to guarantee workers the right to negotiation and collective bargaining recognised in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u138	Workers' rights, wage increases, decent schedules, combating precariousness, the best working conditions, valuing work and workers are an essential dimension for the development and future of the country. This is the way, which goes through the repeal of the serious standards of labour law and always, but always, by the struggle of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u139	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the CGTP and the petitioners who have subscribed to the petition that gives rise to the debate we are having here today. With regard to this petition, the Left Block and the CFP also scheduled legislative initiatives and, as regards these initiatives, some consideration should be taken. Firstly, these initiatives are not a surprise to anyone, they are not even new bills, they are only re-presentations of initiatives that have already been presented in previous legislative sessions. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u141	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u142	Secondly, there is an observation that we do not resist: is that if this matter of the lapse of collective conventions was so important, so, so important, why did it not the Left Block or the CFP negotiate with the Socialist Party, when they supported the Socialist Party's Government, so that this matter would appear and become part of what that agreement would obviously require to approve? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] But even though this matter was not in the same agreement a week ago, you were here to vote on the Budget presented by the Socialist Party and voted in favour of it. Why have they not put as a condition for the adoption of the Budget the amendment of the same legislation? Oh, my God! That is why the only conclusion that we can draw from the initiatives that these two parties are now presenting is that they are intended to delude the CGTP, to deceive the workers, giving the idea that they intend to do something when, in reality, they have never put these initiatives as a condition for that which would be the approval of any of the other acts that you well know you have come to approve. As for the position of the CDS regarding the expiry of collective agreements, just as the initiatives of the Left Block and the PCP have not changed, the position of the CDS has not changed, as is evident, and we know that the labour legislation that is currently in force results from a social agreement, has allowed employment to be recovered and, moreover, has also allowed the increase in the number of collective conventions that have been concluded. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the following is clear: they do not count on the CDS... [[Ah! You know that!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u143	...to call into question the social dialogue, and what you want with these legislative initiatives is precisely to call into question the social consultation, bringing 'the horse door' into question what you cannot,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u145	... they cannot negotiate in this social consultation to reach an agreement, as should be done around these matters of a working nature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u146	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all workers, such as the petitioners and the delegation of the CGTP here. I would also like to greet the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party for the initiatives put forward. As regards the issues under discussion today, the positions of the Socialist Party are well known and have always been consistent. We favour social dialogue and negotiation processes, stressing the importance of trade union and employers' organisations in the realization of the constitutionally envisaged principle in collective bargaining. throughout these three years of socialist governance, collective bargaining has been unlocked and developed, respecting and valuing the negotiating space and social partners, both in the bipartite negotiation and in the tripartite negotiation. We do not forget that we received a situation that had its negative peak in 2014, with only 247 000 workers covered. However, today we have a situation that covers almost four times this number. In view of the reasons presented, it should be recalled that, with the 2009 Labour Code, the Socialist Party has preserved fundamental rights that shape fundamental and untouchable working conditions, which had been eliminated by the 2003 Bagão Félix review. But if the principle of the most favourable treatment should be applied to the whole Code, as the authors of the projects in question want, then what is the interest of the parties to negotiate if the objective of the negotiation is already defined and imposed at the outset? It is important to point out that, since constitutional dignity is given to collective bargaining, it must be achieved, because it has, above all, a significant objective, that is the defence and realization of the rights of all workers, articulating them with the interest of the employer, and this principle cannot be weakened or so little violated. As far as expiry is concerned, if on the one hand it cannot serve as a weapon by employers, it must also not prevent the renewal of the content of the conventions. Statistical data show us that both the stability of conventional regimes and the dynamics of collective bargaining do not depend on the regime of expiry of conventions but on the possibility that one of the parties may make the process of negotiation unfeasible, using this possibility for the benefit of the counterparty and for the benefit of the counterparty. It should be noted that the denunciation of collective agreements is for the first time to have to be substantiated and communicated to the labour administration, to the DGERT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ), and it is important to highlight the new arbitration mechanism with the power to suspend the expiry date in the case of the arbitral college to understand that there is still room for mediation between the parties. I also recall that since 1 January 2018, under the State Budget Act for 2018, valuations and increases in remuneration for employees of companies in the state business sector are allowed, having been endowed with greater autonomy of management. It should also be noted that a negotiating platform with the representative structures of workers is active in the Public Administration. The Socialist Party continues and will always continue to value trade union and employers' organisations, their role and their action, free negotiation between the parties, always based on the fulfilment of rights and duties of a rule of law, driver of social and labour policies. For the Socialist Party, it is a fundamental requirement...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u149	... defend decent work, competitiveness of companies and their social responsibility, valuing collective bargaining and strengthening social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u150	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin by congratulating the CGTP and all the subscribers of the petition that gave rise to this debate on collective bargaining, in particular on its expiry clause. We also discussed projects presented by the PCP and the Left Block, which once again present projects to want to show what is not, i.e., opposition. It is that you are in fact in the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u152	We are! We are! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u153	... still last week they approved a State budget, and I wanted to remind the honourable Members. Members that your Government has tabled in this House a proposal for an amendment to labour law, which is in the centre of discussion in the specialty, which does not provide for the elimination of the clause on the expiry of collective bargaining. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious and don't pretend to be what you're not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u154	It was the PSD that made it work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u155	Rita, let me hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u156	As regards the subject matter in question, on collective bargaining, I wanted to leave two notes that seem essential to us: firstly, the PSD has always recognized and will continue to recognize the importance of collective bargaining as a relevant instrument for regulating and regulating labour relations. Mrs. Members, it is not the expiration clause of the collective contract that effectively prevents its dynamisation and is the data that say so, i.e. that there has been a dynamisation of the collective contract. We recognize, indeed, that there was a period when this dynamisation did not happen, but it was not, Mr. Members, because of the expiry clause, because it is maintained and dynamisation takes place. We must therefore conclude that this is not the way to solve some problem. Secondly, this is a matter relating to labour relations, decent work, workers' rights and, as in the past, when we lead the government, now in the opposition, we maintain exactly the same coherence. That kind of stuff, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they should be discussed and analysed at the centre of social consultation. It is within social dialogue that there is true dialogue, which must be fostered and valued. contrary to the honourable Members. Members, we believe in the virtualities of social dialogue and, therefore, we maintain that this dialogue is fundamental in the context of social dialogue, where there are representatives of workers and employers, who can find the most effective and appropriate solution to this matter. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] This is the moment of social dialogue, which we respect and will continue to respect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u157	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and foremost, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to welcome the almost 80,000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition, as well as the CGTP-Intersindical National, who promoted it and dynamized it and whose leaders here are also present to welcome it. In good rigour, what the petitioners are demanding through this petition is only that our Constitution, the fundamental law of the country, is fully complied with in relation to collective bargaining, because it is true that, over the past few years, labour legislation has been subject to profound changes, it is also true that all these amendments have been marked by a common denominator, which was the accent of imbalance in labour relations, with great damage to those who work. In fact, and as all will certainly be remembered, everything has helped to weaken and accentuate the protection of the worker's position in the labour relationship. The pretexts were not lacking; it was the talk of competitiveness, growth and employment, whether the conversation of the crisis or external taxation, all served to devalue the work and to attack the fundamental rights of those who work. In this respect, it will never be too much to remember the amendments relating, for example, to the concept of fair cause for dismissal or to the disappearance of our labour legislation from the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker or, in addition, the new rules for dismissal, which have resulted in a genuine invitation to employers to lay off, placing compensation in the event of cheaper dismissal and the most facilitated process. To all this it is still necessary to add the summation of holidays, subtraction to holidays, cuts of days of rest compulsory, and out there. But in this long and deep walk against those who work gain particular focus on the changes made in order to weaken and block collective bargaining. Over these years, what we can conclude today is that all these changes or options, intentionally or not, beyond the dramatic situations that have provoked from the social point of view and for those who work, have not only solved none of our problems as they have even worsened them. These are the options that, over time, have been taken up by various governments and that remain in our legal order which now needs to be completely reversed. And among the many employment options that are now needed to revisit, there is therefore the need to strengthen collective bargaining, in particular the revocation of their expiry, thus creating the legislative conditions for the effective exercise of this right, with constitutional relevance. Therefore, the Greens not only accompany the concerns of petitioners but will also enable all initiatives which, in our perspective, promote or strengthen collective bargaining and which will also restore the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-05.u159	We are thus at the end of this point and with it on the agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, at 3 p.m., resulting in the agenda of a marking of the Left Block in which the Bills No. 1007 / XIII / 4 will be generally appreciated. a ( BE ) — Access to the civil identity of donors of gametes by persons born as a result of treatments or procedures for assisted medicinal products and creation of a transitional standard for donations prior to 24 April 2018 ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 1030 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Access to information on the civil identification of donors in assisted medical procreation processes, 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Law on the Processing of Medicinal Products Assisted ), which complies with the system of confidentiality of donors to the provisions of Constitutional Court Judgment No 225 / 2018 of 24 April 2018, and 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the regime of confidentiality in assisted medicinal product breeding treatments ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques ), Draft Resolution No 1879 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase of three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments shared by the National Health Service and the Bill No. 1033 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, allowing access to the identity of the donor of gametes or embryos by persons born as a result of assisted medical procreation processes. At the end of the debate, there will be a possible vote on these legislative initiatives. Good afternoon to all and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 33 minutes.]]
