ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. The agenda for today is a debate, marked by the PSD, on the theme « housing — urban rental », under which the following draft laws will be considered as a whole : No 864 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the deduction of charges for the property of young people up to 30 years of age with lease contracts; No 1038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal system of income insurance; No 1039 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates a cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease; No 1040 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the lease guarantee fund; No 1041 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the exclusion of the taxation of the amounts of compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of taxable persons with low RABC; No 1042 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August for the redefinition of the terms of operation of the National Housing Commission; No 1043 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The sixth amendment is made to the New Urban Rent Scheme approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 for the improvement of the national lease and allocation of new social solutions; No 1044 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 156 / 2015 of 10 August for the allocation of a subsidy for the lease for numerous and single-parent families; No 1045 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal regime of urban lease for the purposes of qualification, education and training; and No 1046 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income. To begin the debate, Mr António Costa Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with a phrase by Jean Vien Jean — « if everyone sweeps the walk of his house, at the end of the day the street would be completely clean». It is in this spirit that the PSD presents itself in this debate. We're doing our part. The law of 2012 was very positive, unlocked the materials related to the lease. The ankylosed market of frozen incomes was what had existed for a long time in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u3	Now they don't want to take the consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u4	I think nobody wants to repeat this past. however, since 2012, significant changes have occurred, these changes that had implications in the lease market. The positive and rapid dynamics that have taken place, particularly in the area of tourism, have been positive. But there have also been some demographic changes, essentially in Lisbon and Porto. When there are changes, it also means that the law must follow these dynamics. Indeed, existing dynamics have caused problems in the lease market, so it is essential to correct. That's what we're meeting today. For this reason, the PSD believes that it must present some legislative initiatives — and it presents them here today — that help correct the deficiencies in this market.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u6	The ten legislative proposals submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group have two main objectives: to act on the supply side — more supply, better prices — and to take care of situations of greater economic and social fragility. No one can run out of a roof to live in. Our proposals are going to make the lease market work. We know that if you did not exist this market would not work, i.e. 98 % of the lease market belongs to private people, only 2 % belongs to the State. We do not solve the problems of renting only by strengthening the rights of tenants, but we also need to place more real estate on the market. In order to generate more supply in the lease market, it is essential to generate confidence because whoever has savings and intends to invest in the lease market needs this to work well, it is not going back to the past or with radical measures that we go there. One of the initiatives we consider decisive has to do with renting student rooms, with accommodation for students. We intend to create a legal system of urban rental for the purposes of qualification, education and training, enabling families to reduce their taxes in the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons), also allowing many families to rent a quarter individually to the students, thus having a tax benefit and bringing to the legality many of the existing situations. Among the PSD proposals are the allocation of tax benefits according to the duration of the contract, giving priority to long-term contracts of two, five and ten years, allowing the tax reduction to fall by 2 % in the two-year contract, 5 % in the five-year contract and so on with the renewal, and also the reduction of 14 % in the ten-year contract. This is a mechanism of trust between the parties. Trust will allow the lease time to be extended. The deduction of tax charges in leases up to 150 € for young people up to 30 years is another very important matter that PSD favours. The amendment of the IRS Code to exclude amounts of compensation for complaints of residential leases of low-income taxable persons is another matter which we consider fair and which has already been presented here in the Assembly of the Republic, which we have improved and which we want to have consequences. With regard to the national lease counter, the PSD proposes a significant change, with a social perspective mechanism for situations of greater frailty of tenants, which will be supported by the State through social security, so that this instrument not only works as a clearing mechanism but also helps in more fragile situations. The allocation of an income allowance for numerous and single-parent families, the creation of an income insurance, the acceptance of a guarantee fund for the lease and the idea of a programme of cooperation between the central State and the authorities to allow the state's returned property to be used in the lease market, are other priorities that we present here today. The State must also make its contribution and example by providing its returned estate to the lease market. As I said earlier today, the State contributes only 2 % of the lease market. We want our proposals to be supported, that all parties look at them very carefully and make proposals for amendments. We are fully available, with all the opening, for them to be implemented. What matters is to help solve the problems of Portuguese. We therefore have great expectations and leave here the challenge to support our proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u7	Mr António Costa Silva, five Members have signed up to ask for clarification. I ask you to indicate how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u8	Mr President, I would like to respond to all requests for clarification together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u9	Of course. First, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u10	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, the PSD decided to participate in this process of legislative amendment to the lease market on 24. The hour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u11	It's not bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u12	What is intended with this so-called housing package is to correct the injustices of that legislation which became known as the "Cristan law", a law of the previous government. when we see one of the parties of the previous government bring ten proposals to change the lease market, which was legislated in the mandate of that government, it is still seen as a self-criticism about the lack of social awareness that this legislation, which became known as « the Christian Law », brought to the lease market. But let's go to what really matters. The lease market, as it works today, is a problem for the country. Many families cannot have housing, they do not access housing because the lease market does not respond in quantity and quality. For the Socialist Party, in order to solve this problem it is necessary to intervene from the legislative point of view on the supply side, but it is also necessary to intervene on the demand side. In other words, on the demand side it is necessary to strengthen the rights of tenants, on the offer side it is necessary to intervene so that many owners who are not landlords today can place their real estate on the lease market so that it has more real estate, more housing and for price cooling, which is what it is intended to be, that is, to respond to the search and thereby lower the value of income. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you what the PSD's position will be with regard to tomorrow's vote in the House Working Group on the issue of harassment in renting, a mechanism that seeks to collaborate with tenants so that they can defend their rights when they are victims of harassment by the landlord. I ask you, therefore, what is the PSD's position on the left block bill and the Socialist Party's amendment proposal that introduce the injunction system so that tenants can defend themselves when they are victims of harassment in the lease. I would also like to ask you what the PSD's position on the affordable lease programme, one of the government's proposals for law, which, in our view, is one of the measures that will have the greatest impact on the lease market, allowing many landlords to place their properties on the market at a value of 20 % below the value of income practised in that geographical area. This will allow many families, with their rate of effort, to be able to contract with the landlord a property, a housing where they can live in condiment and, on the other hand, that the owner has a significant reduction in the lease contract, at the IMI (municipal property tax) and at the rate of IRS. This is an affordable lease programme which will, for the first time, bring the compulsory income insurance, both for landlords and for tenants, and will also have special allowances for young students looking for room in the area where they study and also for the numerous and single-parent families who are in very difficult economic situations. Mr President, these are the issues we would like to raise, saying from now on that the PS Parliamentary Group will abstain today in the vote on some of these PSD proposals. These are proposals that come to meet the government's bills and also the positions of the Socialist Party, and that need to be improved, because we believe that it is impossible to solve the problem of the lease market by leaving the landlords or tenants out. We need to strengthen the rights of tenants — the dedication and objectives of our proposals have been in this respect — but we also need to bring more real estate to the lease market in order to have more supply and thus reduce the value of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u13	For clarifications, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u14	Mr. President, Mr. António Costa Silva, told us here that the law of 2012 has brought dynamic. It is true, you are absolutely right, it has brought a clear-cut dynamic of thousands of families in this country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u16	The law of 2012 — I address Mr. PS — was not known as the « law Cristos », became known as the « law of layoffs », which was the responsibility of the then Minister for Christian Assumption. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It's true! The 2012 law did not aim to promote the lease, it aimed to promote the clearance and therefore had a very concrete objective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u17	The lease market has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u18	...to transform a right which is enshrined in the Constitution, the right to housing, into a highly profitable business. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In fact, the then Minister for Christian Assumption, the PSD and the CDS were very well at work, getting thousands of families clear in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u20	Therefore, they were competent in their commitment to transform a right into a business and to satisfy the gula of speculative groups who wanted to make people's lives their profit and satisfaction. Mr.António Costa Silva, the law of 2012 had a dynamic denial of fundamental rights to Portuguese. So much so that, even recently, we had a full example of this. Therefore, the law does not aim to protect the right to housing but rather to clear and facilitate clearance. I'm going to give you an example: the one of the four buildings of Fidelity, in Algeria / Dafundo. Sir, you're raising your hands, but it's people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u21	It's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u22	It's life! In fact, it is the life of 40 families, many of whom were not in the transitional regime and therefore had to leave the building, the contract was not renewed and are today in a very difficult situation. About 40 families are still in those buildings, whose situation is not at least preserved. Moreover, being still in the transitional period, they have their contract safeguarded until 2021, the problem is that after that people are 94, 95, 96. We are talking about families that, from an emotional and physical point of view, are deeply weakened. This concrete example of these four buildings of faithfulness in the Dafundo, in Algés, demonstrates that only the right to housing is protected by abrogating the law of evictions. That is why, Mr President, it is very clear to us that protecting the right to housing is not to give tax benefits to the gentlemen. Protecting the right to housing is ensuring stability in contracts and guaranteeing the rights of tenants. The PSD only sees how to satisfy the profit and the gula of the speculative economy around the right to housing and how to maintain the right to real estate speculation harmless. Therefore, they invent proposals for rents to landlords, for tax benefits, without ever going to the essential. In fact, you do not want to go to the essentials, because you have made the law that promoted the evictions. That's why it's not surprising. It is for this very important reason that the CFP proposals on the protection of the right to housing, the protection of these families are approved. It is very important to realize that every day more in maintaining the law of eviction is one day less to thousands of families in this country, young families, some with children, who are being expelled from cities and who have to guarantee their right to housing. Mr Deputies, on the side of the CFP, we will continue to beat ourselves precisely for this: not for business but for the right to housing! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u23	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u24	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, it is true that we have a profound ideological difference with regard to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u25	We've already understood!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u26	While for the honourable Member and the PSD the matter of housing is a business, for the Greens it is a right as enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mr. Deputies hold their shoulders, but that makes all the difference in the solutions that we can come up with. But even with this great ideological difference, Mr. Deputies, there is one thing that really hurts you and the PSD, which is trying not to look, trying to completely ignore what is the practical consequence of a law that you created in 2012 regarding urban lease. You do not want to look at the concrete consequences of that law. It has already been stated here, and very well, that, at the time, Mrs Cristas Minister of Assumption, author — or co-author, because the responsibility is, of course, the PSD/CDS Government — of this landfill law, came to say that this law would create a brutal dynamic in the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u27	The offer has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u28	In a way, he was right, but not in what he tried to mislead the Portuguese. And why did this law create this 'dynamic' — between quotes — a very negative dynamic? That is what I would like you to recognize, Mr President, in order to recognize what is the real reality. Is it not true that your 2012 law had an immediate reflection, which was the brutal increase in incomes, making its value unbearable to numerous families?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u30	Is it true or not, Mr. Member, that this law has led thousands of evictions to thousands of families since 2012, according to official figures, to an average of five families a day? Oh, my God! Is that true or not? Do you want to keep your eyes on this? Oh, my God! Is it not true that this law led to a significant increase in real estate speculation? Here has already been mentioned the case of a Faithfulness building in Algés, Dafundo! But the honourable Member shrugs his shoulders, thinking it's not relevant. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Siva.]] But for those families it's relevant! And we could mention so many other cases of real estate speculation, which came to be verified, as a result of the application of this law, that opened its doors!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u31	But I don't quote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u32	Is it true that this law has contributed to what everyone says they want to fight, which is the depopulation of the city centers? How many dwellings, for example, have given rise to local housing instead of being used for residential rent? We all know this reality, sir! But she didn't fall from the sky to the tramp! It follows a political option that you have taken and which has been implemented in the law of 2012. What did we Greens immediately try to do, too, in this legislature? We tried to do what, in our perspective, was inevitable and the only possible solution: the repeal of the law of 2012. But, unfortunately, that has not yet been possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u33	But they approved the State budget! That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u34	Point to the PS and you're absolutely right! But you also need to assume your responsibility. It is true that in this legislature there was no political will on the part of the PS to revoke this law. Some amendments have been made to the law, which we consider to be positive, particularly with regard to the enlargement of the transitional regime, but, in the Greens' perspective, it is not enough, Mr President, and we will continue to fight for the repeal of this law. Mr. Deputy, wake up for reality! It's just that you may want to come here now to make rhymes in the law that you've drafted, but it's not enough! It's not good, sir. He wakes up to reality and sees the concrete consequence of the brutality that you have created in the urban lease. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u35	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by commenting on what is the defacetism of the united left in relation to housing. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] The PCP should change his speech. It is that you have a speech and practice is different. Again recently, the PCP, as owner, in the Help...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u37	He's a jerk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u38	Member of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u39	Lying is sin!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u40	Mr. President, if I may, I can continue... The PCP, as owner, in the Help, tells your tenant...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u41	Lying is sin! Look at him going to hell!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u42	I ask the honourable Member to let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u43	Lying is sin!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u44	Mr President, if you will allow me to continue my speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u45	Please, Mr. Deputy. You can go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not a lie. The truth is that the PCP, when it is the owner, uses the law and tells its tenants « can go out» ; when it is the others, it is already the «Crist law»! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Deputy, it's a big deal! It's a hell of a mess! It's not bully! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u47	Mr President, I would ask you to make a slight gesture of waiting so that you can continue with the calm possible. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I would, of course, like to congratulate the PSD on these initiatives and for this debate on housing. The PSD presents a set of initiatives that come a little bit in the line of a power debate that, although recently, the CDS has addressed the issue of housing, such as income insurance, the supervision of reserve funds of buildings, the use of state buildings for renting, renting for students and tax incentives for medium- and long-term contracts. Had the CDS initiatives been approved in this same Parliament, in 2019 the Portuguese and the gentlemen would know that they would have a tax benefit, they would maintain these contracts. But unfortunately Parliament has rejected them, and now we have new initiatives that will only be reflected in 2020. I would like to leave a question to the PSD. The contracts to which Mr António Costa Silva PSD refers in terms of tax benefits are for new contracts and for new renewals. The question I leave you with is the following: would it not be better to maintain these tax benefits for renewals of current contracts? Otherwise, we can fall into the absurdity of those who have leases want to terminate them to draw up new contracts, with the aim of being able to enjoy these same benefits. I think this would be a blessing that could be made in your proposal and that goes in line with what the CDS has already presented. I would not like to end this debate without denouncing what has been the enormous demagogy of the united left, who have panicked, the social alarm about owners, about tenants. The numbers reveal exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u49	Go talk to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u50	The few amendments which have been made and which have been approved on the left are bad amendments, which have come to pass a message of instability which is not good for owners, lords or tenants. Do you think it's throwing panic over the owners and the gentlemen who will have more leases? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Do you think that's what's going to bring more leases and more market offer? Oh, my God! No, that's not what he's gonna bring. Whatever stimulus is welcome and, in this sense, many of the proposals put forward by the PSD will, of course, have our acceptance. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to quote the architect Helena Roseta, who, on the subject of the Budget for next year, said the following: « This Government treats housing as the poor relative of public policies». That's exactly it! In a country where there is only 2 % public offer, when we look at the State budget, what do we see? In a budget of more than EUR 130 billion, what does the united Left include in the Budget? They entered EUR 156 million, i.e. 0, 2 % of the State budget! That says a lot about the one that is the priority of the left in its whole. Therefore, you should give up this speech, which is a speech that does not, above all, take on the reality or the reality of the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u51	The CDS is lying! Lying is sin! Go to hell!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u52	In addition to a request for clarification, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is well aware of the existence of a working group in its parliamentary committee to deal with these matters, but decides to take the proposals from this working group and bring them here, basically in a number of theaters that depress. By the way, I now use to ask the PSD how it intends to vote on the project of the Block of Left on real estate harassment that is under discussion in this working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u54	Good question! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u55	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD, the debate on housing cannot and cannot be passed on to a strip of the especially vulnerable population that faces additional difficulties in access to housing—I mean immigrants; it cannot go by the grueling duality that exists in access to housing between the two major types of immigrants — the gold and all the others. The objective assessment of the results of the golden visas, in terms of the investment associated with them, shows that they contribute brutally to real estate speculation. We know that only in May of this year, of the 120 gold visas assigned 114 were - it was because of the acquisition of the property. These people, who buy these buildings, are interested in the residencegold visa and, therefore, if it means buying a property for the double or triple of the money that really is worth, it doesn't matter, which contributes decisively to real estate speculation, for the way the cities are organized and, of course, for the ability of each person and also of each immigrant to enter the housing market. For immigrants, for all others who bring only their knowledge to this country, their workforce, who work here, who contribute to social security and who contribute to the economy of this country, the PSD does not propose anything in terms of access to a fundamental right, which is access to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u57	The PSD does not, after all, correct the deficiencies in the housing market, which Mr António Costa Silva presented, because immigrants do not matter. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, immigrants cannot be left without a roof to live. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u58	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u59	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Deputies João Paulo Correia, Rita Rato, Heloísa Apollonia, João Gonçalves Pereira and Sandra With the questions they asked. I shall begin by responding precisely to Mrs. Member of the Left Block. It gives to understand how we are in this debate. The Left Block reminds me of that story of those who buy a home for social security, an old house, which was to rent people with social fragility; then they get the house and get well arranged; keep the people who were there at home, some of them, very few, at controlled prices. And then what do they do? Then they put the house for sale at a price five times higher than the value of the house. And then it's the Left Block that tells us about real estate speculation! Is that what you're talking about? [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Deputy, right now, on the issue of immigrants, why didn't you make a proposal? I still don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u60	So we didn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u61	Let us then discuss today's proposals. Mr João Paulo Correia, on the relevant questions you have put, and under the self-criticism we make, I ask you a simple question: is it worth returning to 2011? I would also like to raise the question to other Members. Members: do you want to go back to frozen incomes, to the out-of-the-boxed market, where there was no trust and no one bought a house or saved money to invest in the lease market? Is that what you want? Is that what you guys are looking for? I don't think anyone wants that again! This question must therefore be asked to the Socialist Party, insofar as, if you want to come to this debate, you must pay attention to both sides, the lodgers and the lords. It is in this perspective that the PSD is in this debate, taking into account both sides and not just one. Mrs Rita Rato, in fact, has published a news in the JN (Newspaper)...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u62	Aldrabice part two!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u63	Is it addrabice? Oh, my God! But I have not seen any lies on the part of the Portuguese Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u65	The title of the news is this: « PCP accused of wanting to clear reformed to ‘profit’ buildings ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u66	Aldrabice! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u67	Oh, is that a lie? Oh, my God! But that's what's written on the news! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u68	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u69	What does the honourable Member mean is that journalists are bad-ass?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u70	Madam Member, we are already used to the number they always do and once again Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has made, by referring to the concrete example of the issue of the building of fidelity. Interestingly, it seems that it was sold to the Chinese Communist Party... But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to clarify a few questions... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the speaker finish his answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u72	In fact, that is difficult, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u73	Please, Mr. António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u74	The PSD proposals have the prospect of encouraging the supply to lower prices. And we expected the parties to the left to participate in a set of them, which have a strong social component and look at the most fragile situations. Please, come with us! [[PCP protests.]] I shall finish by addressing Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, to whom I thank the questions put. For us, Mr, contracts are contracts and are to be fulfilled, so our perspective is to conclude new contracts. In any case, they approve our proposals, make our proposals viable, because we are available to improve them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u75	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that a delegation from the Network of Ombudsmans, the National Human Rights Commissions and other Human Rights Institutions of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ), led by the Ombudsman, Maria Lúcia Amaral, is a member of the Ombudsman of Angola, the Federal Public Prosecutor for Human Rights of Brazil, the Ombudsman of Cape Verde, the President of the National Human Rights Commission of Guinea-Bissau, the Ombudsman of Mozambique, the President of the Interministerial Commission for Human Rights of São Tomé and Príncipe and the Executive Secretary of CPLP, for whom I ask for due greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, even before we proceed with the speeches, Secretary Pedro Alves has an announcement to be made to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u76	Mr. President and Mr. Members, has entered the Bureau, and has been admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 90 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 93 / 2018 of 13 November approving the new Legal Regime of the Recreational Nauticals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u77	The next entry for this debate is from Mr Nuno Sá of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we analyze and discuss the themes of housing and urban rent, the Socialist Party affirms itself with a global view, which calls for different types of intervention and differentiated responses, appropriate to the various problems and multiple subjects of the theme of housing, in which urban rent is of greater relevance, but does not exhaust the need for intervention by public authorities. The PS is doing an intense and comprehensive work in the area of housing, with the presentation of a proposal for a basic housing law and a New Generation of Housing Policies, which already has the majority of its operational instruments and which is based on two pillars: ensuring everyone's access to adequate housing and creating the conditions for both the rehabilitation of the building and urban rehabilitation to pass from exception to the rule and become the predominant forms of intervention, both at the level of buildings and at the level of urban areas. The Socialist Party is committed to guaranteeing everyone the constitutional right to housing. We have the announced and ambitious goal of celebrating the 50 years of April 25 with the eradication of situations of serious housing shortage in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The absence of previous government housing policies, associated with the crisis experienced and the responses given to it by the previous government, could not fail to result in the lack of 26,000 housing units in the country. We must therefore respond to families who live in situations of serious housing shortage, but we must also ensure access to housing by those who do not have market response, in particular to families who, even if they are not lacking, are faced with great difficulty in access to housing. This difficulty, as we all recognize, is recent, increasing and obliges the government and some authorities to move from a housing policy that only addresses the most needy to another, which includes, equally acutely, all those who are failing in the market. We therefore move forward with new housing policies, which intend to move from 2 % to 5 % of fires with public support, promoting the lease market and rehabilitation. We now want to make clear the will of the Socialist Party to converge very clearly. We may have different views and solutions, but we are available to hear and receive all contributions, in order to generate the necessary consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is how we view this agenda and the proposals now put forward by the different parties, in addition to what we have already done with regard to Portuguese society, at the beginning of this year, with the public consultation on the framework document of the New Housing Policy Generation, which has made more than 600 contributions. The Socialist Party has set out four objectives: firstly, to respond to families who live in a situation of severe housing shortage; secondly, to ensure access to housing by those who have no market response; thirdly, to make rehabilitation the main form of intervention in the building and urban rehabilitation; fourthly, to promote social and territorial inclusion and opportunities for housing choice. In order to achieve these objectives, 20 instruments are planned for their operationalization and we are pleased to see today that of the 17 approved by the Government, 13 are already in progress and 3 depend on parliamentary approval. Thus, we passed from the paradigm of housing policy oriented towards the residual to a generalist orientation, representing a great evolution in the effort to offer houses to Portuguese families. We have already implemented, with approved regulations, the gateway — Urgent Housing Support Programme and also the 1st. the right — Access to Housing Support Programme, which aims to provide adequate access to housing for the most deprived and still living in angry housing situations. For 1. the law is estimated to be an overall investment of EUR 1700 million, of which EUR 700 million in deep-disbursed participations. in this context, there is already a provision of EUR 40 million in the proposed State Budget Act for 2019, given that prior to the financial implementation, the development of local housing strategies by municipalities is necessary, as well as, in most cases, the development of projects and the start of works. Nevertheless, the report accompanying the Budget already includes the financial programming by 2024, taking into account the overall financing estimates and the expected implementation rate, and 169 Portuguese municipalities are already working on the implementation of the 1. o Law. In order to ensure access to housing by those who have no market response, six instruments are provided for their operation. of the instruments envisaged, it is important to highlight the Accessible Rent Programme, which aims to encourage an extended offer of housing for rent at affordable prices, compatible with the incomes of families. This programme aims to raise private offer for housing rent at affordable costs through a counterpart which results in an increase in profitability and a reduction in risk. It is also worth noting that the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, which is already operating and which promotes the rehabilitation of buildings, in particular of devolved or available public heritage, for subsequent leases. At the same time, in April, the Government adopted more balanced and secure legislative amendments to the lease, including forecasts aimed at protecting the most vulnerable and differentiated autonomous rates for long-term housing leases, and Parliament is now facing the challenge of convergence around the best solutions for its approval. As part of the State budget, a legislative authorization was approved to allow municipalities, in urban pressure territories, to apply a very significant increase of the IMI (municipal property tax) to buildings that have been returned for at least two years. Also in full implementation and with significant investment is the Porta 65 Jovem programme, which grants financial support to the housing lease for permanent residence by young people between the ages of 18 and 35. In order to make rehabilitation the main form of intervention in building and urban rehabilitation, the IFRU 2020 (Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalization) and the Rehabilitation for Landing, which supports investment in rehabilitation of buildings over 30 years old, is also planned. For the Socialist Party, when we talk about housing policies, we must also consider promoting social and territorial inclusion and opportunities for housing choice. in this measure, programs such as Habitat to Habitat are already being developed, which aims to promote the cohesion and integration of public rented districts and their residents, and the Key in the Hand, to promote mobility and transversality in their own permanent dwellings that can pass to the lease regime. So the PS has done a lot! contrary to what has been done in recent years by the previous government, which has neglected housing policies and unprotected the most disadvantaged, the Socialist Party, with this set of initiatives, has managed to launch a New Habitat Policy Generation, which seeks to respond to everything and everyone. Much has already been done, but there is still much to be done. We must seek a good balance between market supply and public supply, between access to own housing and access to the lease market, which is also a guarantee of sustainability for those who invest in housing and stability for those who live in rented housing. For a society that is worthy, there must be a guarantee of access to adequate housing for all families, regardless of where they live and their incomes. This is the society we want! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u79	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Nuno Sá, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to request clarification and was also informed that they will respond together. Mr Jorge Falcato, from the Left Block, therefore, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Nuno Sá, when we talk about legislation on housing rental, we must be aware that disabled people are not on equal terms with other citizens and are discriminated against in access to housing. I recall that family aggregates that integrate people with disabilities are, in general, aggregated with lower incomes than those of other families and find an affordable housing with an income that corresponds to their income level is almost impossible because it implies assuming increased costs, given the shortage of housing with these characteristics on the market. When they finally find a home that can be at least suited to their needs, there is still the expense that they have to take on the necessary adaptations for their use. It is therefore, in all fairness, the existence of legal standards that protect residents with disabilities in their right to housing, hindering the termination of contracts for the lease of family aggregates that have a disabled person within them. But it is not enough to protect the renter with disabilities, there is a need to protect the household, taking into account all persons with disabilities who constitute it, because the consequences of a possible eviction do not occur only to those who have the name in the contract. My question, Mr President, is to know what measures the Socialist Party believes should be taken to ensure the right to housing for people with disabilities. Should or should not all disabled persons living in a particular fire be considered? Does the Socialist Party believe that the fact that a disabled person has lived for less than 10 years, or even less than 5 years, in a fire should not have the same rights as those who live in a fire for more than 15 years? Won't the consequences be the same for each other? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u81	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Germana Rocha from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u82	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, the current government speaks a lot, but it does very little. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u83	It is a good thing to announce, but in three years of government, specifically in terms of renting, nothing has been able to solve. I therefore ask, very specifically, what the PS has to say about the PSD proposal that provides for the creation of income insurance, which aims to give stability and trust to lease and avoid extremely complex and unfair situations such as those in which many of the creditors have remained, in the event of non-compliance with these leases. I ask what the PS has to say about the proposed improvement of the National Rent Balcony, through the resolution of small problems already identified in 2016 and that this government has not been able to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u85	Our initiative also provides a social response to situations of housing shortage in which tenants and their family members may remain in a state of exile, through their identification and communication to the relevant social security services, which must take a quick and appropriate solution. I also ask whether or not the PS recognises the need to give vitality to the National Housing Commission, so that it constitutes an essential tool in the analysis and evaluation of the housing and non-individual rental market, both public and private, and it is up to it to point out concrete solutions in this area. We also propose the participation of representatives of the indigenous power in this Commission, taking into account its proximity and knowledge of the problems of citizens in particular. Therefore, it is difficult for the Socialist Party to wait until the end of the debate to say how the PSD initiatives will be voted on, in order to clarify the Portuguese people who are currently accompanying the session. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u86	To reply, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u87	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me. I begin by replying to Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões, of the Left Block, saying that the concern he has expressed is shared by the Socialist Party's bench, in fact, as I think he recognizes. We have also expressed, with concrete actions, a great deal of concern about people, about tenants with disabilities, and it is not a mere intention or concern that has no consequence, because we have already adopted concrete measures to protect people even more and the right to housing for tenants with disabilities. I'm talking about, for example, cases where the lease transmission occurs. in this measure, the challenge is to continue working together, to deepen these policies, and I am sure that we will achieve the best result, because this is a concern we share. Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, the Government of the Socialist Party has done a lot. I had more time and, in the intervention which I had recently addressed to the House, I would have referred even more measures, instruments and investments that the Socialist Party has made, since it is a government, to promote housing. We are ambitious and do not neglect housing, as your government did, in a financial crisis and when the Portuguese most needed protection in the housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I am referring only to one fact: there was no implementation or investment in a single housing policy during the right government. Just one! We are now in concrete action and operationalize them. [[PSD protests.]] Tell me a measure, Your Honor! There was not a single investment in a single housing policy in the PSD / CDS-PP governments! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] And what VV. Ex.as have done in relation to income insurance is charged. I remind the honourable Member that in 2012 her Government passed a law that created the possibility of income insurance. You know what happened? They did not regulate that law and therefore had no consequences. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They showed the intention to create insurance, but they did nothing strictly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u88	It's been three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u89	The Socialist Party will effectively advance with the proposal to create income insurance, moreover, it has already presented it and the insurance will be properly regulated, as a capable legal instrument. That's what we're working on, and that's how we're going to go on. Let us do so, as I said, with a global and articulated view and, necessarily, because it is the right one, with the implementation of the Accessible Rent Program, in which the income insurance will appear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion cannot be made without referring here in the rostrum to those responsible for the evictions that occur at the same time as we delay to make the amendments to the law. I am talking about the initiatives of the CDS, in the previous government, which led to the liberalisation of local housing and forced insecurity in urban leases in 2012 by the hands of Assumption Cristas. But I also talk about the allocation of tax benefits to real estate and non-standard residents and the white paper to speculate given to foreign investors or money-launderingrs. Yes, I see gold! All of these come in and out of contact with people or cities, connect only for profit, either here or in China. These inequalities between those who live in their work and the privilege given to speculators have been deepened, widespread and normalized. What you've missed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is political courage to guarantee people's rights, in front of the increasingly established right that money buys. The PSD and the CDS, when they liberalized the lease, put the money and property forward and mirrored housing stability. Yes, the PSD and CDS have penetrated the housing problem, created over decades,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u92	He's been in the government for three years! Tell me what you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u93	... and now, six years later, thousands of redundancies after and after the end of the discussion process in the Working Group — Housing, make new proposals that back favour the owners, and many of them have become, over these six years, real estate investment funds or real estate companies, which have acquired buildings behind buildings for local housing or luxury housing. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Real estate harassment and rent insecurity are now, as a result of your policies, a constant reality in cities. See the case of Fidelity, which sold heritage, because, by European taxation, it could not have so much heritage. Then what did you do? He bought heritage to build luxury housing and, on the way, threw out the housing security of about 2000 families. However, the Apollo Fund, which bought the houses of fidelity, in turn, does not even guarantee the protection of the moratorium that we have approved here. Yes, we are talking about immoral actions, without any social responsibility, but also about outlaws. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And you can't invoke ignorance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the diagnosis has long been known and has never had the obvious political response that it needed: public investment, rehabilitation and public housing and the recognition that we are talking about human and constitutional rights that have to have a collective response, of solidarity and with a strong public component.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u95	In northern Europe, more than 20 % is public housing and the resilience to the housing crisis has been greater. In Portugal we speak only 2 %. It is therefore time to look forward to this urgency. There will be no housing security, as long as successive governments fear not to invest consistently in public housing. on Monday, we celebrated the 70th. the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we have been informed of the latest report of Amnesty International on human rights: in Portugal, there are still inequalities in access to housing that is more vulnerable people and communities. It is true, yes, and they also increased the eviction cards and forced evictions. in this urgency, we have seen the Socialist Party postpone solutions and without the courage to move in the market. It is the Secretary of State himself who publicly says that he does not have permission to do so and, at the same time, the laws we are adopting in this House of the Republic are still being disrespected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a non-renewal letter or real estate harassment are insecurity and chaos in people's lives, and that is what PSD does not understand. The PSD does not understand that there are people in villages, in Galinheiras, to be cleared at 11 a.m. on 3 December, because the Lisbon Owners' Association did not make its role as landlord...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u97	...and did not guarantee the security of the housing that manages, where people have lived for more than 20 years. The PSD also does not realize that some of these people do not know if it will be clear on Christmas, New Year or, yet, soon thereafter. You don't know! And it doesn't realize that it's so easy for owners to crush houses and leases, as it doesn't realize that it won't be for another three months of income in the pocket that the owners will stop breaking contracts and harassing the tenants. More: the PSD presents here projects in which it acknowledges that, and I quote, «the lease market(...) presents some distortions in relation to tourist pressure, tax benefits for foreigners, and others», but does not withdraw any conclusion of this finding nor proposes the end of visasgold or the regime of non-standard residents. On the other hand, it provides insurance and public guarantee funds to guarantee rent to owners, not even proposing the creation of a public guarantee fund for works in the building, where tenants live without any conditions. It also proposes that the State should be the 'weak banker' of debts arising from the risk of the private initiative. As we discuss income insurance, guarantee funds and tax benefits for landlords, as well as income allowances for a small part of the population, or, even, see, changes to the National Rent Balcony to make the violence of softer evictions, there are people who are being disposed of from homes where they have lived for decades. These people are homeless where to go, whether public or private, and do not even have income to meet the prohibitive prices that the lease has achieved. For this situation, the Block has submitted proposals, such as the waste moratorium, the deepening of the right of preference and the removal of the limit to indebtedness in investment in public housing. These were the only proposals that have already been adopted. But we propose more! We propose the prohibition and penalty of property harassment, the stability of contracts in time and in the value of income, a strong public investment, a strong taxation of real estate gains and the end of visasgold and the non-standard resident regime. Mrs. and ladies and gentlemen, it takes courage to face real estate interests, and that courage has been lacking in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u98	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, the Bureau records Mr António Lima Costa, of the PSD, to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u99	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, the position of the left-wing bloc in the area of urban rental forces us, strangely to speak of interior cohesion, because the interior dispenses good speeches and beautiful plans in the paper, but requires that all public policies have the concern of positive discrimination or at least of non-negative discrimination in these territories. If it is true that fixing workers in the interior is the key, motivating students to attend educational establishments in the interior is also very important. However, in this matter, the Government and the Block have been incompetent and perverse: incompetent, because the measure of reduction of vacancies in Lisbon and Porto only caused students to move to other higher education institutions on the coast and not on the inside, and perverse, because the route followed, of reducing the maximum value of the tips, will increase the demand in Lisbon and Porto. For example, the value of the propines in Viseu is €950 and in Lisbon and Porto is €1068. Reduce the maximum value of the tips to 856 € determines that there will be a reduction of 212 € in Lisbon and Porto and there will be a reduction of only 94 € in Viseu. Thus, it is financially encouraged to go from indoor students to the coast. On the contrary, the PSD presents today, here, a proposal that faces the main problem of families with students — that of their accommodation — but faces this problem by looking at the whole country, looking inside. And it faces it, proposing the creation of a legal lease scheme to students who aim to increase the supply, through tax incentives to owners who receive them in their homes, and who, in the view of social support, foresees the participation of the State in the income paid by these students. But it faces it, also supporting students who attend higher education institutions, professional schools or training centres located in the towns and medium cities of the country, thus captivating these students to stay there. And do it, Mrs Deputy, stimulating the owners of buildings to be part of the solution. Do you also, Mrs. Member, want the Left Block to put aside its hatred of the private initiative and, voting in favour of this project, be part of that solution? And now, Madam Member, do you also want the Left Block to put aside its sectarianism against the PSD proposals and to vote in favour of our measures to support tenants, in particular the creation of an income allowance for numerous or single-parent families in a situation of greater economic and social fragility? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u100	To reply briefly, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u101	Mr President, Mr António Lima Costa, it is interesting that the PSD should raise these issues, given that it has destroyed several public services within, in particular, privatized the CTTs...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u102	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u103	...and no longer guaranteeing a social and economic fabric—see there! — which could even boost private initiative in the interior. With regard to investment in university residences, which, yes, lacks in the proposals of the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, we ourselves have come to present several proposals to ensure public housing for these same students in situations of training, vocational qualification, in order to ensure that they do not have to be hostage to the private initiative and the speculative prices that have been practised by platforms such as Uniplaces, for example, that they will certainly have knowledge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u104	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current government has been in office for three years and, in this respect, the matter of housing, as unfortunately in relation to so many others, the assessment to be made is certainly very negative. Let's see what happened in the last three years. Was there an increase in housing supply commensurate to the population? No, there wasn't! Have conditions of stability been created in the lease market? No, they didn't! Did they increase public support for rent? No, they didn't! Have changes been made to the housing lease that have effectively improved and encouraged the growth of their offer? Not either! Did you lower the tax on the incomes of residential buildings? Not either! Is a comprehensive survey of public buildings that are in a position to be placed on the housing lease market? Yeah, not either! So you ask yourself, what did the government do? Well, or bad, the government has raised taxes on wealth; it has extended the transitional period for older leases, saving money at the expense of landlords; it has announced programs, behind each other, without any other being yet realized—and announces them three years ago! — for the effective supply of housing;... [[BE's protests.]] ... and, with the help of the Left Block and the Communist Party, has tabled proposals for amendments to the Rent Regime which call into question a reform carried out in 2012, which was necessary and urgent and aimed to end the stagnation of the offer of rental houses that had occurred in Portugal for decades, and which effectively achieved this objective. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They have also adopted legislation which will further complicate the exercise of the right of preference of the tenant and which, in practice, further discourages the placing of dwellings on the lease market. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS recalls that it was the first party to present initiatives on this sector in this legislature and to schedule a debate on housing. In fact, we presented a set of initiatives, all of which were plunged by the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP, which aimed at promoting housing rental, making it more attractive and at moderate prices. Thus, we introduced a bill that provided for the reduction of the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of the real estate income resulting from housing leases, with this progressive reduction in relation to longer contracts. This gradual reduction in the autonomous rate of IRS, taking into account the duration of the contracts, is a way of creating an incentive for the owners to bet on the conclusion of longer lease contracts. We also introduced a bill that recommended the creation of a legal income insurance scheme for all housing leases, and the creation of income insurance, as you know, is a measure that protects landlords and tenants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u107	We also presented an initiative that recommended to the Government the modification of the building reserve fund system, to ensure its effective existence and use due, by means of a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, something that does not happen, in practice, and that prevents the rehabilitation of buildings. As for state buildings, we have presented an initiative that wanted this Parliament to be properly informed about the processes for the alienation of the National Building Rehabilitation Fund. We also presented two more initiatives aimed at promoting the increase in the offer of rent for housing in the city of Lisbon, which are known to all. All the initiatives I mentioned here were plunged by the left parties — the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that, with regard to the initiatives presented by the PSD today, we agree with many of its points, in fact, as I said, we have already presented some initiatives in the same direction, which have been rejected by management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u108	What about the evictions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u109	But we cannot fail to regret the successive postponement which has occurred in this House of the Republic, not because of the CDS. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you realize that this postponement is indeed detrimental to the Portuguese, especially to those who are most disadvantaged. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u110	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u111	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, we all remember how the historic centres of Lisbon, Porto and other cities of our country were 10 years ago: they were uninhabited places, with devolved buildings, in ruins or in bad living conditions. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The parliamentary left does not like it, but sends the truth that it is said that it was from the reform of the Urban Rent Legal Regime, operated in 2012, combined with other reforms, that it was possible to initiate the reversal of this sad reality. Statistical data confirms this. I am sure, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the results could be better, should not be the case if, in the last three years, the left-wing parliamentary majority has not done anything but introduce uncertainty and distrust in this sector. Uncertainty and mistrust with the protection of the freezing of income, in order not to pay the income allowance due to the elderly and persons with disabilities; uncertainty and mistrust with the creation of new taxes on real estate; uncertainty and mistrust with recent changes to the exercise of the right of preference; uncertainty and mistrust in the defence of vital contracts, guaranteed renewal, waste ban and of a thing called temporary property requirement, which is no longer than the return to the past, in time of gonzalism, at the time of the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course). Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, it is a fact that, meanwhile, new economic dynamics and new social dynamics have put new conditionalities on the lease market, which require further solutions. So I ask you if you think these new problems are solved, returning to the protectionist laws that led to the death of the lease market. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] These new problems are solved by implementing public housing policies at the expense of the landlords, at the expense of the municipalities, by transforming the landlords into extensions of social security or, on the contrary, by adjusting and acting on the supply side, with adjusted fiscal policies, monitoring the market and protecting the most disadvantaged by the hands of the State itself, and not by imposing the State? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u112	To reply, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u113	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I thank you for your question and, as soon as I have available, I would like to say to you the following: of course, the Socialist Party has been assisted in this Parliament in the last three years to go to the trailer of a policy of the Left Block and the PCP which aims to return 30 years ago, a income freeze policy, which, as we all know, is the ideological dream of the Left Block and the PCP. What surprises us is that the PS goes after this ideological dream and is making a return I don't know exactly what date it dates, but surely at some point, as you said, the time of gonçalvism. I just wanted to tell you that, indeed, there is an ideological difference with the parties on the left, and that is not what Mrs Heloísa Apolónia had just mentioned. And the difference is this: says the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic that all Portuguese have the right to a decent housing. We can't agree anymore. The ideological difference is that we understand that this role is the responsibility of the State and the left understands that this role is the responsibility of the owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u114	Well, no more! Well, no more! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u115	That is the great ideological difference that exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u116	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u117	I shall conclude right now, Mr President, by saying the following : following the Law of 2012, which showed that there was a different path to follow, which was the right path and that it was an important milestone in the evolution of the lease market in Portugal, what is needed is to realize that we have to create mechanisms for the owners to be attracted by the lease market. On the other hand, and very important, it is necessary for the State to increase public supply, because the public offer of housing in Portugal is 2 % and, for example, in Germany, is 15 %. For this reason, we also advocate that the State should increase the public housing supply. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u118	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order to be fully clarified in this debate, and because what has been announced here by the CDS and the PSD is not a lie, the CFP clarifys the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u121	The PCP owns a building that needs works and has also been notified to do the same works.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u122	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u123	in this building, there is provisionally an association of pensioners, because its headquarters is not currently in condition. What is being done is trying to find a solution with the association of pensioners. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u124	If I was a private, I couldn't, but you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u125	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u126	That's how it is! There was no eviction here, contrary to what you have done with your law of eviction, with which thousands and thousands of families have sent to the streets and closed hundreds of small establishments. What they said is a lie! Let it be clear here! [[PCP applause.]] In contrast, the PSD and the CDS, which come here to weave loas to their law of eviction, saying that it has dynamized the lease market and that it has allowed the rehabilitation of the city, what we see, all these years, is that, if it were not the intervention of the CFP, in the Assembly of the Republic, through the proposal to extend the transitional regime, they had gone to the streets hundreds of thousands of elderly. This is the truth that you systematically want to hide! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] We prevent smaller establishments from closing down! It is your responsibility with regard to housing issues in our country that you, particularly the PSD, want to whitewash today by doing this debate and bringing here a set of initiatives that do not solve any of the problems that residents and families are facing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u128	What is happening today, with the evictions, is that people who have always fulfilled their contracts and their responsibilities go to the streets. What, today, is placed on the table, is the 'door of the street' by the gentlemen. There are people who are unable to pay speculative incomes, in many places in our cities, and you respond with tax benefits to those who have always benefited from the law, who have protected the rights of tenants and residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u129	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u130	This is the truth about this debate! When the PSD speaks, it says there is uncertainty. There's uncertainty, yes ma'am! There is uncertainty in the lives of these families, the uncertainty of not knowing whether, when they arrive at the end of their contract, the landlord will double their income or simply not renew their contract. There is uncertainty among small traders, who do not invest, because they do not know whether their contract will be renewed to maintain their economic activity. This is the truth! I would also like to mention something that I think is very clear about the political and ideological options of the debate that is being made today. The PSD brings a proposal that reduces taxes, in particular within IRS, if the contract that is established has a higher duration, what the PSD does not say is that this tax reduction is related to any income value, be it 300 €, 1000 €, 3000 € or 4000 €. What, in practice, is being done and who is really going to benefit from this measure are the owners, who today charge incomes of fully speculative values — of 3000, 4000 and 5000 € — and start to have a tax reduction, based on IRS. Of course, this does not benefit from renting, it does not promote any type of lease, it only brings benefits to those who, throughout all these years, have always been benefited, who are, in particular, the large owners and real estate funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u132	The solution, in view of today's problem, is the proposal that the CFP has brought to the Assembly of the Republic: the repeal of this law, because this actually allows us to stop the evictions that thousands of families face. On this issue, what we have found is that there is indeed a convergence not only between the PSD and the CDS, but also with the Socialist Party, by not following the CFP in this proposal. What matters, on this issue, is that if the will is to protect the tenants and guarantee the right to housing, then we must take effective measures in this regard. The question that arises here, too, is whether the Socialist Party is on the side of the defence of tenants, residents, and the protection of housing or whether it is on the side of the maintenance of the system, as it is, continuing to benefit private interests. The PCP has delivered to the Assembly of the Republic a draft basic housing law that breaks completely with the system that is installed and that places housing not as a mere commodity, but fulfilling a social function, to respond to the housing deficiencies that are identified today. That is why we consider it essential that there be a direct intervention by the State, not leaving this intervention in the hands of the private people, as it happens today. It is essential that the State provide and promote public housing to meet the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u133	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. It is essential that the State guarantee a lease under supported income or conditional income schemes, but what is really important is that there is a decisive and decisive intervention by the State here, so that, once and for all, the right to housing is a reality for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party has always defended the wager in education as a national priority. For PSD, education should first and foremost be a social elevator. It is such an elementary idea that no matter where we are born, no matter what material our cradle is made, no matter the size of our parents' wallet, it matters, yes, our merit, our effort, our dedication and our willingness to go up in life, placing on our training, our education and our qualification. But this social mobility is far from guaranteed in Portugal. It is not enough for a student to study, have good grades and enter higher education, he must also have financial means to bear the absolutely prohibitive prices of accommodation, especially in large cities. The lack of student accommodation is the biggest scourge that affects students who study or want to study in higher education, a scourge that contributes to school dropout.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u137	Quitting? Oh, my God! So the PSD said there was no drop out of school! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u138	It is true that this problem is not solved overnight, but in three years of government, something could have been done. Three years! In three years, the government has only made advertisements and propaganda, without presenting proposals, without presenting solutions. In the first two years, the government completely ignored the problem. He then announced a line of funding in the State Budget for 2018, which in practice never ceased to be a line of the State Budget. Once again, nothing has been done. Then, at the beginning of this year, he announced a fund, which, in essence, was also nothing. Then came a national plan full of intentions, but without realisation. For PSD, the situation is truly unbearable. And in the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, the PSD came to play a number of proposals, replacing itself with the government, which seems to have no ideas or political will to help solve the problem. The PSD proposed a substantial increase in the housing complement, but the left parties preferred a symbolic increase. The PSD proposed a strengthening of EUR 15 million for the construction and requalification of student residences, but the left parties had other priorities. The PSD is returning today to give the PS, the PCP and the Left Block an opportunity to be, not next to the PSD, but next to the students, making the PSD proposal viable. The PSD proposes the establishment of a legal scheme for urban rental for the purposes of qualification, education and training. This is the response to the more than 70,000 students who are displaced and do not have a vacancy in a residence: a special and specific lease scheme for students, a regime that is attractive for landlords who choose to place their properties on the student rental market, but which is also attractive for tenants, for students and their families, who urgently need this support. This scheme proposes a reduction of 25 % in the rates of residential income and a reduction of 50 % of the seal tax, encouraging not only the owners to rent their property to students, but also to declare these leases to be eligible for that reduction. Combating illegal leases should also be our priority, not only because of the loss of tax revenue, but also to ensure greater protection for students who see themselves in a situation of complete vulnerability. This is another contribution from the PSD to this discussion, but it is also an opportunity for other parties in this House to do their part by voting on this proposal from the PSD and helping no student to leave higher education due to lack of accommodation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u139	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say to Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes that, of course, we have to find solutions for student accommodation. I don't know if the best solutions will be those you proposed, but it's a matter that concerns us. I would also like to say three or four things that are, to me, very relevant. First of all, the Constitution of the Republic, already mentioned above, speaks of the « right to housing ». The right to housing implies responsibilities for the State, but also implies responsibilities for citizens. We have already been asked which side is that we are and are on the side of all the proposals that can strengthen the right to housing in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we have, before all this legislative package, presented a draft basic legislation for housing, which has not yet been scheduled. The Portuguese Communist Party has also presented one and we hope that, in January, we will be able to deepen this discussion, because, without having a basic law that frames all these measures, all these programs and all these projects, we will have an avulsive and casuistic policy that does not produce results. We have to act on the offer side, because more housing is needed, but we also have to act on the demand side, regulating it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, look back! In 30 years, from 1987 to 2011, 73% of public money in housing was to subsidize interest, it was for people to buy houses. Do you now wonder if there are so many owners in Portugal? Oh, my God! That's what public policy has done! But these half-owners are bank tenants, because they don't have the houses paid. Therefore, there is enormous precariousness in the question of access to housing and very little money was given to reallocation; there was only one important program, the Special Realisation Program ( PER) but there was never anything else. for the first time, in 2019, we will have 1. the right — Access to Housing Support Programme. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme is perhaps a good example of how this House can work. We can all attack each other here, because we have different ideas, and it is legitimate, but we can also make a convergence effort. They remember how the 1 came about. o Law? There was a unanimous resolution adopted in this House by all parties calling on the Government to remove national shortcomings and a resettlement programme. The Programme arose in response to a unanimous resolution by the Assembly of the Republic. We can do more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! More than attacking each other, we can do more! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, there are four possible types of measures for a public housing policy: direct promotion, tax measures, financing or regulation. In direct promotion, we have 1. o Law. I think it's little and I've already said it—in fact, it's been remembered here. The municipalities also have, but we can go further. In tax measures, we have found no consensus in this House, and we will have to find it. In fact, I think it is possible to find this consensus, because it is perhaps the only subject where you and your tenants agree. Ladies and gentlemen have told us, Assembly of the Republic, that there must be a tax relief in the lease. Let's see if we hear them and if we can agree on this. For a very simple reason: while the lease has a tax that makes it completely less interesting than, for example, local housing, who will put houses on rent? It is not the law on the liberalisation of leases that solves the problem. We must have a fairer taxation, and that is why the Socialist Party will debate itself so that it may be so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, as far as funding is concerned, the PSD has submitted subsidies for this, for that and for that other, are all very worthy intentions. It is known, and there are studies on this, that lease subsidies increase the value of income, and we are already at a stage when the market is overheated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u141	So I think there must be lease subsidies, but, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a measure to use very moderately. We already have Door 65 Young, which is, in fact, short, but is a measure to use with moderation because it has perverse effects. We must be very careful about how the market reacts to these things. Finally, regulation. Mrs. Members, I am very sorry, but it was not the liberalisation of the lease that improved the historic centres of Porto and Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u142	I was there and Mr. Deputy was in another county. What improved, in the case of Lisbon, the attraction of the historic center began by being the urban rehabilitation policy of the City Hall of Lisbon, led by António Costa! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] This was then leveraged by the increase in local accommodation, which is already excessive. On a proposal from the Left Block, and with contributions from all of us, we have also managed to regulate this matter so that historic centres are getting better, but that they do not, above all, remain historic centers without residents and inhabitants of Portugal, only for tourists. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end by telling you that we will be with all those who really want to deepen the right to housing, we will vote against the initiatives which, from our point of view, will disband or do even worse than what we already have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u143	The next intervention is also for the Socialist Party by the voice of Mr Hugo Pires. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The expression used and abused by the previous government 'to go beyond the troika' did not only represent a brutal increase in taxes. Going beyond the troika represented a whole program for the country. A program of impoverishment of families, where low wages, precarious labour market, degradation of public services, the sale of more profitable public enterprises and the deregulation of the lease market, encouraging unregulated evictions and promoting a voracious real estate speculation, was your purpose,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... was the purpose of your Government, the PSD Government and the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This social insensitivity, this disinterest by the people, this indifference to the most unprotected caused, unfortunately, and only for bad reasons, the issue of housing to play a central role in political debate. [[PSD protests.]] The law of evictions, which, for history, will be indelibly known as «Cristas law», ended with neighborhoods, removed families, torn ties, forced thousands of Portuguese families to leave the house where they always lived. Despite this, the CDS made every day the effort to try to pass through the raindrops and to realize that Assumption Christians is not primarily responsible for this law and for the serious social consequences it has caused. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u145	In addition, the proposed amendments to the CDS on leases are, themselves, ashamed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u146	Embarrassed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u147	... shy, in a style of who "gives one on the nail and another on the ironing". The CDS is clearly eager that this debate will end up turning this black page of its governance. The PSD has already been losing the shame of all the harm it has done to thousands of Portuguese families. He lingered in the debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u148	Did you call Eng Socrates? He signed the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u149	... has now appeared, during the period of discounts, using football language and presenting 10 proposals in terms of renting. It is appropriate to say: welcome to the debate; it is worth more late than ever. On our left, the Left Block speaks a lot about 'lords' balls', as if you were obliged to replace the State in social policy matters or even legitimately demand them to do so. instead, the Socialist Party prefers to favour the stability of leases, encouraging the greater longevity of contracts, or that for this the State must abdicate some tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike a vision of the past, the problem we are living in today's housing is not just a problem of the lower and disadvantaged classes. The problem of housing today is also a problem that affects — and much! — the middle class. The PS has demonstrated, and has demonstrated again throughout this debate, that it is the only party capable of reaching understandings, of dialogue, of having a global and cross-sectional perspective of the problem. We must respond to what is today a national emergency, placing more houses and houses on the market at lower prices, accessible to Portuguese families. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u151	Housing is a fundamental right, such as education, health and employment. Ensuring everyone's access to adequate housing must be the main mission of this House and of all of us. That's what should move us and that's what moves the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u152	To conclude the debate, you have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today, at the initiative of the PSD, was rightly constitutional — the right to housing. Indeed, in accordance with our Constitution, more specifically in Article 65 ( 1 ). o « Everyone has the right, for themselves and for their families, to an adequate housing, in conditions of hygiene and comfort and to preserve personal privacy and family privacy». Despite this constitutional right, in our country 98 % of the lease market is the responsibility of the private sector and only 2 % is the responsibility of the State to take care of it. I repeat, only 2 % is public housing for people with social income. in this balance sheet between landlords and tenants operating in the context of the market, the State must safeguard and guarantee the right to housing to the most vulnerable. It is for the State to ensure that those in situations of greater economic and social fragility have a greater supply of public housing and, at the same time, regulate the market so as not to prevent the effective exercise of the right to housing. in this sense, for these people whose life has not smiled and for whom the state has a duty to meet, the PSD has brought to this debate the following proposals: creation of a lease allowance for numerous families and single-parent families in a situation of economic and social fragility; deduction of tax charges on leases up to €750 for young people up to 30 years; exemption from IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) on compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of low-income taxable persons; improvement of the National Rent Balcony and allocation of new social solutions, notably through a link to social security services. We well know that these are not the solutions to all the problems of those who do not have access to a housing, but it is an effort and the principle of a path that needs to continue to be made. I also stress the importance of creating a new urban lease legal system, which has as its recipients thousands of students away from home and their families and for whom today this housing problem is the greatest problem to be solved. Even today, this question has been put to the PSD Parliamentary Group by an association of students from a higher education institution in Lisbon. It is therefore proposed that a one-quarter reduction in the IRS should be made in respect of the property income due by the landlords, half of the seal tax due on the contracts and, moreover, a subsidy paid to students equivalent to one-quarter of the income paid by them. The PSD considers this to be a fundamental measure not only to ensure the right to housing, but also through it the right to education. It cannot be acceptable for someone to stop studying because he does not find a home to live in! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our country needs a real lease market. A lease market which guarantees timely compliance with the law to owners, the full rights of tenants and which makes the State comply with the constitutional principle of the right to housing. at the end of this debate, it is found that there were different types of conduct by various political forces: responsible and constructive conduct, to be contrasted with preconceived and defeatist conduct! Despite clear divergences on various points of view, we cannot fail to note that, here and there, in the various interventions of the Socialist Party, a constructive approach to the PSD proposals became clear. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u154	We note this with satisfaction, not by the PSD, but by the people and by what this can represent in improving their living conditions. I conclude by reaffirming that these and other proposals, which are now presented by the PSD, are balanced, sensible and fair. That is why we have presented them and, as well, we want to believe that they will give rise to a positive attitude on the part of the majority of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda, so we will move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 187 presences to which 11 are added by the Members. Members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Carlos César, Idália Salvador Serran and Ivan Gonçalves, by Mrs. Mr. BE Jorge Costa and Mr. Sandra Cunha and Mr. Members of the PSD Berta Cabral, Duarte Pacheco, Jorge Paulo Oliveira, Paulo Rios de Oliveira and Leonel Costa, performing 198 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with Vote No. 694 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Sentencing and sorry for the attack in Strasbourg. I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the night of 11 December, in the vicinity of the traditional Strasbourg Christmas market, for still unknown reasons, an individual, equipped with grenades and an automatic weapon, fired indiscriminately on those who were there, causing three fatal victims and more than a dozen wounded. You still do not repeat other attacks in the recent past, they also perpetrated against innocent citizens, against life and against freedom, France and Europe yesterday were once again surprised by this tragedy. An attack that calls us again to the need for a reflection on how to respond, with one voice, to the multiple causes of extremisms — causes of political, economic, social or religious order. Moreover, for the importance of European unity in the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom and democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attack in Strasbourg and expresses the feelings of its deep sorrow to the families of the victims, the authorities and the French people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u157	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed to Votes Nos 690 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and 692 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP, PSD and PS ) — Greetings, in commemoration of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. At the request of BE, time has been requested for each parliamentary group, so that the votes are not read. Thus, for an intervention, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, 12 years have passed on the United Nations approval of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a historic framework, which we welcome, in the guarantee and promotion of human rights, a tool to ensure that all people have access to the same rights and opportunities. We are convinced, although with different perspectives, of the unanimous support of this House to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It will be the defence by all Members and Members of Parliament of the rights of persons with disabilities expressed in the Convention to ensure that it will be taken seriously and become a reality. I am sorry to say, but the Convention is not being respected in Portugal in too many respects. The Convention is not respected when there is no disability strategy which the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recommended that the Portuguese State have been presenting for more than two and a half years. It is not respected, when pilot projects are implemented, independent life with budgetary restrictions that mean the impossibility of complying with the law itself which frames them, preventing the allocation of the number of hours of personal assistance to those who would legally be entitled to it, i.e. those most in need of support.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u160	It does not respect the Convention, when we have legislation on accessibility that has not been met for 21 years and when there is no accessible transport, except in some major urban centres, nor when we have to notify you 24 hours in advance if we want to take a train. A country in which prohibition or disability actions increased by 174 % between January and September so that these people could access the PSI (social benefit for inclusion), where institutionalizing policies persist which keep thousands of people trapped in their homes, many against their will, where the allocation of support products fell by 32 % in 2017 compared to the previous year, and where unemployment of persons with disabilities increases by 24 % in six years, when in the same period there is a fall of 34, 5 % in the unemployment of the general population, it is not a country in which the rights enshrined in the Convention are being met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u162	We must not forget that Portugal, when ratifying the Convention and its additional protocol, is obliged to comply with it. That is what is required of us, Members and Members. That is the requirement of disabled people. I hope we meet that requirement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u163	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic has decided to mark the commemoration of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which it is now 12 years old. Very little time, we would say, to a problem for which, although much has already been done, much still needs to be done. It is long the way ahead, a path for which the Socialist Party has contributed either through the action of its Parliamentary Group, or through the many political measures taken by the current Government. But we often have perfect legislation and practice that is far from being. To recognize the right of disabled people to a dignified life, with all the rights that this implies, is to assume that these people are equal to all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u165	Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To mark the days on which the rights of persons with disabilities are celebrated and highlighted, be that of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, be it the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, on 3 December, it is also to mark and remember the daily struggle of persons with disabilities, their families and also their representative organizations, battles, hard ones, who are faced, because effectively, in practice and concrete, they continue to be limited and denied every day the rights of persons with disabilities. We actually have legislation that enshrines and protects people with disabilities, which defines rights. We have a Constitution of the Republic which enshrines rights for people with disabilities, protection for their families, support for their representative organizations. The Portuguese State has subscribed to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified it by binding all governments to adopt measures and policies that effectively mean respecting the rights of persons with disabilities in everyday life. We have legal diplomas that enshrine these rights, but in fact, there is a lack of recognition that every day, in concrete life, people with disabilities not only have the right to mobility, the right to circulate in their towns and cities, the right to independent life, but also the right to education, the right to health, the right to employment and vocational training, the right to housing, the right to culture, the right to sport, the right to social protection and the right to participation in social and political life on an equal footing. We have good laws, we have progressive and advanced legislation, we lack to implement it, and that is a matter of political choice, which the CFP assumes in its daily defence of the rights of disabled people and also in its proposals in this House of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u167	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we celebrate 12. the anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is a milestone, because it is not the first time that many of their rights are enshrined, it brought together the consensus between the international community for the adoption of a specific convention directly aimed at people with disabilities. In our view, this represents three aspects which we would like to underline. Firstly, what is expected of us is the ability to always stand in front of our differences and positions that we often have ideological, partisan or other circumstances of people with disabilities who are the most vulnerable among us. on our part, we have sought to do this through the presentation of many proposals. On the other hand, what the Convention tells us and what is absolutely crucial is that we should be aware of the individuality of each person and also of each person with disabilities. It is necessary to break with invisibility and never allow the concept of "deficiency" itself to overlap with each other's circumstances. The truth is that the condition of disability and conditionalism is very different and varies from person to person. For this reason, too, in our view, this is the time to say that the universal design of rights, as the Convention itself says, should not distance the concrete circumstance of assistance, which is always necessary, be protagonist through the State, the social sector or civil society. It was therefore, and taking this conscience, that we proposed this vote seeking the broadest possible consensus in form, at the time of approval. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u169	To conclude this period of intervention, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We commemorate the 12 years of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Otherwise, I'd say we celebrate freedom and cohesion. We commemorate the freedom of the citizens, which is the supreme value, and the cohesion of a community that is seen in this process and in which no citizen is excluded, in which all citizens have an active, productive participation in order to gain their own happiness and freedom. This is therefore an important moment, that the various international bodies, parliaments, societies, but also, for example, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are celebrating in an intense way. Above all, it is also a challenge, because there are people who are special, people with disabilities, who often continue to stand aside from a society that excludes them. Today's news is that unemployment among disabled people is far above unemployment in general and, more importantly, that has been worsening is not good news. And it is not good news that, after all, the employment rate or the activity rate and participation in the labour market of disabled people is below the average. This isn't good news. It is also not good news what happens in education, with the so-called "inclusive education", which, in fact, is excluding people. And it is not good news to know that we continue not to implement the overrun of architectural barriers for the full accessibility of citizens to public buildings, or, for example, what happens to public transport. That is why this moment is a celebration, but it is also a moment of training and perception that we have here a challenge in which all citizens are important to make a free, democratic and modern society, as we want to build in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on vote No 690 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 692 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP, PSD and PS ) — Greetings, in commemoration of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 691 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by a PS member ) — Greetings to Jorge Viegas, President of the International Federation of Motorcycles. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « At the beginning of December 2018, the electoral act was carried out to elect the President of the International Federation of Motorcycles, having Portuguese Jorge Viegas collected 79 votes in 101 possible in the General Assembly of this entity and thus becoming in the first Portuguese to assume the presidency of the entity responsible for the organization of the entire world motorcycle industry. The election of a Portuguese for the maximum position of an international sports federation of this dimension is of significant importance for national sport. The International Federation of Motorcycles is a centennial organization, recognized by the International Olympic Committee, which currently represents more than 100 national federations, responsible for all official competitions of all the disciplines of motorcycles and still assume a significant role in promoting the conduct of motorcycles in safety. Having begun its competitive participation in motorcycling in 1970, Jorge Viegas is also linked to the history of the National Federation, having been founder of the National Federation of Motorcycling, now Federation of Motorcyclism of Portugal. In addition to the founder of the National Federation, Jorge Viegas was President of his Directorate and President of the General Assembly, as well as Founder and Vice-President of the International Federation of Motorcyclism - Europe and Member of the Directorate and Deputy President of the International Federation of Motorcyclism. His election as President of the International Federation represents the culmination of a career dedicated to motorcycles and, in addition to pride for the national sports movement, should serve as an incentive for all sports leaders. The Assembly of the Republic thus welcomes Jorge Viegas for his election, wishing to vote for a fruitful mandate, in the hope that this work will contribute to the development of the modality, particularly in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1882 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brasília. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 864 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Income Tax Code of Single Persons for the deduction of charges for the property of young people up to 30 years of age with lease contracts. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 1038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal system of income insurance. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 1039 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates a programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to renting. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 1040 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Creates the lease guarantee fund. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1041 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the exclusion of taxation of the amounts of compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of taxable persons with low RABC. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the members of the PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 1042 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August for the redefinition of the terms of operation of the National Housing Commission. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1043 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The sixth amendment is made to the New Urban Rent Scheme approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 for the improvement of the national lease counter and the allocation of new social solutions. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote of Bill No 1044 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 156 / 2015 of 10 August for the allocation of a subsidy for the lease for numerous and single-parent families. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1045 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Creates the legal regime of urban rental for the purposes of qualification, education and training. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1046 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u174	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u175	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u176	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present a statement of vote on draft laws Nos 1038 to 1046 / XIII / 4. a, submitted by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 1373 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the valorization of vocational education, with the guarantee of equal opportunities for all students, and 1501 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the advance of benefits due to vocational schools where there is delay in the financing of POCH. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u179	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u180	Mr President, it is to be announced that a statement of vote by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the vote on this final text will be tabled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u181	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u182	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u183	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u184	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u186	Mr President, I would also like to make the same point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-13.u187	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 1 to 6 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 19, 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28 September 2018 and paragraphs 7 to 19 for plenary meetings of 3, 4, 10, 11, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 29 and 30 October 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Before we finish our session, I should like to announce the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will be on Wednesday, December 19. The first item on the agenda will be political statements. in the second point, together, the petition No 455/ XIII/3a (of the initiative of João Gabriel Bargão dos Santos et al.) will be assessed — Rev. of the main military hospital and the military hospital of Belém for the administration of the armed forces and the draft resolution No 1669/ XIII/3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of the Main Military Hospital and the Belém Military Hospital as back-up hospitals in social and clinical support for military and former military personnel of the Armed Forces. Finally, a third point on the agenda comprises the joint discussion of Petition No 356 / XIII / 2. a ( from the initiative of Maria Helena Rodrigues da Silva et al.) — They request the adoption of measures regarding the future of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, in Ovar, and of the Resolution Projects No. 1873 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar, 1871 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — by the autonomy, reopening of the emergency service and valuing the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ) and 1089 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — by valuing Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital ( Ovar ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all very much and until next week. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 19 minutes.]]
