ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. Law No 110 / XIII was introduced ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets out the scheme of the largest escort, in place of the institutes of prohibition and disability, which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 774 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Extends access and coverage of minimum banking services ( Fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March ) ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 775 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial administrative limits of the parish of Palmela and the Union of Freguesias de Poceirão and Marateca, in the municipality of Palmela ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ), which fall to 7. the Commission. I also refer to the entry of draft resolutions 1318 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of grants and support for paralympic athletes equal to the Olympic athletes ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1319 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Discontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Victoria Beach ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1320 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and repair of environmental damage resulting from foreign military activity on the Third Island ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1321 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the effective application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July 2017 to all Science and Technology Management ( BE ) pockets, which fall to 8. the Commission, 1322 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to allow tender notices to be opened for applications for investments in scientific and technological infrastructures and, in the case of Alentejo, to enable the implementation of the second phase of the Alentejo Park of Science and Technology and other scientific and technological infrastructures ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1323 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the end of outsourcing in the provision of health care and psychological monitoring in prisons and guarantee of access to the health of prisoners ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1324 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the academic burden of the discipline of Physical Education and the valorisation of the school sport ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1325 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1326 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decontamination and recovery of areas affected by the activity of the United States Air Force at the Lajes Base, on the Third Island ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1327 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transfer of facilities to the lighthouse of Ponta de São Jorge to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 1328 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to a set of actions aimed at depolating the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, located in the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also important to announce the results of the elections that took place during the plenary session on Friday. With regard to the election of five persons for the National Council for the Prosecution of Medicinal Products Assisted, the following result was found: they voted for 200 Members, with 162 votes « yes» recorded, 31 white votes and 7 null votes, so they declared themselves elected Carlos Calhaz Jorge, Eurico José Marques dos Reis, Joana Maria Cunha Mesquita Guimarães, Carla Maria de Pinho Rodrigues and Sérgio Manuel Madeira Jorge Castedo. For the election of a member to the Internal Security Council, the result was that 200 Members were voted on, with 106 votes « yes », 71 white votes and 23 null votes, so Mr Fernando Anastácio ( PS ) was not elected. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u3	Mrs. Members, meeting Mr President of the House on an external mission, I would like to congratulate Vice-President José Manuel Purez on the conduct of today's work, whose only point is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a) ). the Rules of Procedure, on economics, innovation and knowledge. For an initial intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor, which I welcome, as well as the other members of the Government present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We had good news today for Portugal. The year 2017 recorded an economic growth of 2, 7 %, a growth above the euro area average and the European Union itself, and which not only constitutes the greatest real growth of this century, but also replaces the country in real convergence with Europe for the first time since our accession to the euro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a healthier growth because it is based on investment and exports. Exports of goods grew by more than 10 % in 2017, with particular emphasis on industry, whose exports increased by 14 %, 7 %. Portugal has gained market share in many countries and, in particular, in countries with sophisticated demand, showing that it is the best performance of companies — and not only the improvement of the external situation, as some believe — that justifies this export growth. The data available for the investment also show strong growth, estimating an increase of 5, 5 % in business investment throughout the year, with emphasis on foreign direct investment, which rose by 7 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this growth is especially healthy because it translates into improving the lives of Portuguese people : Portuguese in general, who, after recovering salaries and pensions cut off, already benefit of 6, 2 % of their net income increase; of the 288 000 Portuguese who found employment; of the 80 000 Portuguese who released themselves from the risk of poverty until 2016. in employment, this was even the largest growth in a single year since the National Institute of Statistics has registered and Portugal was the third country in the European Union which has dropped the unemployment rate most in the last two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We didn't just have more, we had better jobs. In fact, 78 % of employment on behalf of another person created in the last two years corresponds to non-term contracts – up to 85 % if we consider only the year 2017. But we know that we will only continue to have more growth and better employment if we can reduce what is truly our biggest deficit, that of qualifications. The improvement of qualifications is both a condition of reducing inequalities, an opportunity for better employment and an essential model of development based on innovation. from there the extraordinary importance of two known data last week. First of all, we saw a significant improvement in the early school dropout rate, which was still 36, 5 % a decade ago, and in 2017, it fell to 12, 6 % by placing us close to the target of the 10 % set for 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second : the percentage of young people aged 15 to 34 years who do not study or work decreased from 13, 9 % to 11, 9 % in 2017, which means greater participation of new generations in their training and the labour market. The facts will reinforce the certainty that the strategy that this majority has followed was — and is — the right strategy. The country has prospered and has today more growth, better employment and greater equality, with balanced public finances and without deviation from the commitments it has made, either before Portuguese or before international institutions. Facts are facts and there is no ideological prejudice that can contradict them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government must define and implement public policies that go beyond our blockades and improve the lives of citizens, but it must also draw up the medium and long-term strategy that prepares the country for the multiple challenges of the future. The sustainability of economic growth in the face of the challenges of the 21st century requires that we continue persistently to bet on innovation as the engine of our development. This agenda has as its aim to converge for Europe of knowledge by 2030, taking three priorities: first, strengthening research and development capacity; secondly, betting on business innovation; thirdly, ensuring the qualification of human resources. For this reason, tomorrow, the Council of Ministers will focus on these three priorities, starting with the adoption of a new innovation strategy for Portugal 2018 - 2030, with clear targets — reaching a global investment in research and development from 3% to 2030, of which two thirds correspond to private initiative expenditure, democratising access to higher education, reaching levels of participation in the order of 60 % for young people aged 20, and extending to 50% the number of graduates in the age range from 30 to 34 years ; the GoPortugal programme, which includes support for new cooperation agreements between Portugal and Carnegie Mellon University, the MIT ( Massachusetts Institute of Technology ), the University of Texas and Fraunhofer society ; and a new science law to modernise the legal regime of institutions dedicated to scientific research and technological development, strengthening the conditions of scientific and qualified employment and diversifying the institutional structure in order to bring the scientific community closer to society and the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second priority is to improve the framework for the transfer and absorption of knowledge by companies, to promote structural transformation through foreign direct investment and entrepreneurship and to qualify the business fabric, and to continue to bet on the internationalisation of the economy. in this sense, we will approve tomorrow the constitution of the first six Collaborative Laboratories, associating scientific and academic institutions with the productive sector, as foreseen in the INTERFACE Program, favouring areas directly associated with the valorization of our endogenous resources — the forest, the Atlantic, mountain cultures, the vineyards and wine in the Douro, the valorization of algae in the Algarve, which adds the answer to the global challenge of digital transformation in the industry. On the other hand, we will also launch, in partnership with the Fraunhofer institute, a new technological centre on precision agriculture, with two poles, one associated with the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and another at Évora University. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, for a model of development based on innovation, there is an essential starting point: the qualification of human resources. Ensuring the appropriate qualifications implies, on the one hand, continuing to reduce failure and drop out of school and to wager in the recovery of the skill deficit of the active population, but also obliging us to bet on advanced training and specialized technical training at higher level. in this area, tomorrow, we will approve diplomas on the strengthening of the National Digital Skills Initiative, the modernization of the legal regime of degrees and degrees of universities and polytechnics, corresponding to the recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the recognition of academic degrees and other qualifications awarded by foreign higher education institutions, favoring the attraction of qualified frameworks for Portugal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we want to continue to create more and better jobs, if we want a decade of sustained convergence with the European Union, if we want to increase the weight of our exports to 50 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), if we want a more inclusive society, with better public services and sound public finances, we have once and for all to mobilize determined, persistently and continuously to build a knowledge society and an innovation economy. To do different, to do better, to have more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u5	To question Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Prime Minister, a first word to greet economic agents, workers, businesses, Portuguese, Portuguese, the government, of course, for the well-known results on economic growth. On your speech, Mr Prime Minister, I leave three notes only. The first is to welcome growth. But I also want to tell you that the government — and the country, fortunately — has taken advantage of a highly favourable external environment, from the very point of view of the price of oil, the monetary policy of the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and the economic growth of our partners themselves. But from this point of view, the government has revealed an ambition which I would say little, perhaps sour to the Communist Party and the Left Block, an ambition of a growing Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister can boast of numbers here, but the truth is, look there! — in 27, in the European Union, we are only ahead of 7 countries and in 19 of the euro area we are behind 13 countries, which demonstrates the ambition of this government and which should be compared, for example, with partners who had programmes similar to those we had from 2011 to 2014. I remember the cases of Cyprus or Ireland, which grow 3, 8 % and 3 %, 4 %, and we have a Prime Minister with a petty ambition, which makes a big deal here because Portugal grows 2, 7 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u7	With regard to innovation, I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, that I welcome your arrival and the arrival of your Government on this subject. And I would like to present the following challenge to you from now on: on this matter, it approves the six PSD proposals which are in their respective Commission's field of expertise. I would also like to welcome your innovation on a roadmap to — pass redundancy — innovation. We've been doing this for two months. Furthermore, the OECD has a report, which was known last Friday, which speaks well of the need of the Prime Minister to take this path. See there that the OECD says that the absence of a concerted strategy for science, innovation and higher education is reflected in inconsistent measures by the government. It is good that Mr. Prime Minister has now come to this problem. As a third note, I want to talk about employment. Apparently, the three government parties are committed to undoing labour legislation, which has contributed both to employment growth and to the fall of unemployment. in the last fortnight debate, I had the opportunity to tell you that you have already given the first step in the stability of labour legislation. Mr Prime Minister will certainly know the labour legislation and what he says about extraordinary work. Now, in recent months, we have seen a hysteria by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, a power struggle involving Autoeuropa. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there should be moral and ethical limits to extraordinary work, if he is in accordance with what is in the law, if he intends to change the law. And I leave you a very direct question: is there any moral and ethical limit to extraordinary work? Next, I will explain to you why this question is mine. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u8	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u9	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, although I believe that Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, being this the last 15-year debate under his leadership, and although we had, almost always in difference with each other, he did not want to stop publicly greeting him by the dedicated and committed way he sought to serve the country according to what was his own reading of the national interest. I didn't want to stop making that reference here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for you, Mr Hugo Soares, I believe that it is not yet time for us to say good-bye. We will have the opportunity, despite the innovation roadmap in which there are two months ago, to meet again. On the issue you have raised, firstly, I would like to say that as regards growth, you may want to devalue it, but you will certainly not find anyone in any of the parliamentary banks who does not wish to grow more than 2 7%. at the government bench, I'm sure you can only find those who want growth over 2, 7 %. However, it is difficult to devalue what is the biggest economic growth we have since the beginning of the 21st century and the first economic growth in which we are once again converging with the European Union since we joined the euro. You don't think so? Would you like more? I also want more, but what we already have is not much, and above all, it is very different from what happened during your governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as Autoeuropa is concerned, it is clear that we are all aware of the economic importance of this company, not only for ourselves but for the dynamics of the entire cluster of the car industry. What we should all want is for social dialogue in Autoeuropa to find the success that has always been a remarkable feature throughout its life. That is why the Government has sought to cooperate and nothing will do to prevent it from cooperating. The worst thing we can do, if we really want to succeed in the social dialogue of Autoeuropa, is to try to confuse what is the debate and dialogue between parties in a company with political or party combat here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u10	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u11	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me respond directly to your provocation, which made you with a sneezing smile, telling you just the following: in order to do these debates with you, it was enough for me to have the votes of the bench that is behind me ; in order to do these debates with me, you had to join the votes of others. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Returning to my question, I believe that Mr. Prime Minister has misunderstood you. I only asked him whether or not he understood that there were moral or ethical limits for extraordinary work. What should be the limit? What's in the law? Or does the Prime Minister understand that there are no limits to extraordinary work? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u12	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u13	Mr President, this debate is also taking place for another reason: it is because you sum up little, and that is why you are in opposition; we add a lot, and that is why we are now a majority in this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The legislation is what it is and the social dialogue is what will enable us to take the parts where they should arrive. There is one thing about which I am sure that none of us should do: it is to try to replace the parties in dialogue, transferring to the Assembly of the Republic the dialogue that takes place — and well — within the company and to whom we should simply wish that, as has been the tradition in Autoeuropa, it can be fruitful for the company and its workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u14	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, continues to be hard to account for, which is already traditional in the Socialist Party. If you do, you find that you have 86 Members, and we alone have 89 Members! Mr Prime Minister, I asked you, theoretically, with all the latitude, about extraordinary work. My question has a reason to be in Autoeuropa, but it goes deeper than that. Moreover, it is a fundamental issue of labour law. I ask you directly — I am very used to Mr. Prime Minister not answering anything, but this time make an effort there: 500 hours of extraordinary work, by worker, in a year, is it acceptable?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u16	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u17	Mr President, I am glad that you are used to not answering you, because I am not going to answer you. [[PSD protests.]] When you ask a question, I answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u18	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u19	Mr President, I believe that the parliamentary dialectic of the fifteen-year debates is the same: the honourable Members ask and the Prime Minister answers. I'm going to ask the question again to see if Mr. Prime Minister refuses to answer again: 500 hours of extraordinary work is acceptable? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u20	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u21	Sir, I see you have little confidence in my consistency. At the same question I will give you the same answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u22	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u23	Mr President, I would like to note the full lack of respect of the Prime Minister for the PSD bench. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u24	If you ask if you like roast chicken, are you required to answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u25	Mr Prime Minister is not responding to a direct and concrete request from a Member because he is ashamed of the answer. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government has just published an order allowing workers to work for five months more in a year than normal, making 850 hours of extraordinary work in the port of Lisbon. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with this order, if he thinks it reasonable, or if he can explain to the country what is behind the order which Mr Vieira da Silva and Mrs Mar sign. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u26	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u27	Mr President, as you see in the matter of consideration, you finally asked the question you wanted to ask. I was trying to create an bait to seek an answer that would then contradict it with an order issued by two members of my government. [[PSD protests.]] Nevertheless, I have advocated the number of years enough to know these bar techniques, but one of the reasons why I have stopped advocating and preferring political debate is because I always thought that the political debate could be done with another frankness and other frontality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] That is why, Mr President, the only thing I have to tell you, with all honesty, is that I do not know — as I should imagine — the order given by the Minister of the Sea and the Minister of Labour, but that there is this order, to say what it says and to trust either one of us, of course, that the order is fine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u28	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u29	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to tell you that I have a great deal of respect for the profession I practice and for all the lawyers of this country,... [[PSD applause.]] ...and Mr. Prime Minister should also have, because it is your training. But I would also like to say to you, Prime Minister, that I am glad to know that you agree that there may be workers to perform 850 hours of extraordinary work in Portugal. I am grateful that, in the next debate, I could clarify the country and the House's reasons for this. It was good for all of us to know why there are workers in Portugal who can do 850 hours of extraordinary work, which are equivalent to five more months of work per year. It's absolutely loaded or, then, there's something behind it. Mr. Prime Minister, more than a month ago, a television station reported, with a series of reports, an issue that has deserved, on the part of the Government, a deafening silence. This is, as you know, the report of a television station that, if you have really supported, portrays abduction of children and illegal adoptions of children who were under the custody of the State. The Public Prosecutor noted that he opened an inquiry and the President of the Republic heard those mothers. Mr. Prime Minister, enough deafening silences! If there is material in which the State cannot fail, it is in the protection of the most fragile, exponentially, children in its custody. So I wanted to ask the Government directly: has any audit or inquiry been determined to social security services? What follow-up is the government giving those mothers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u30	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u31	Mr Member, if the report is the same as I have seen, it is a report that refers to events that have occurred more than a decade ago,... [[And?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u32	I'd say I have the idea that it happened about two decades ago. Therefore, as you should imagine, Mr. Member, the Government does not determine the opening of investigations into facts that occurred 20 years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u33	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u34	... above all, if there is any criminal matter. The judicial authorities, as they have publicly noted, are investigating what is to be investigated, but the government, as it must understand, concentrates on the present, focuses on the future and not on finding out what happened 20 years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u35	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u36	... which, I believe, is not the function of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u37	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that I think this attitude of total disrespect and total contempt for people and for this country,... [[PS protests.]] ...in a circumstance which should be to us all political agents, to be ashamed. The Government's resignation to seek out what has happened is a national shame which, too, should make it feel ashamed. Mr Prime Minister, have I already seen that on this subject you do not mean anything, but I ask you another very direct question: do you keep thesis that taxpayers will not pay their solution for the damage caused by BES? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u39	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of its two qualities is that it always has the same attitude, whatever the answer. If I had said that we would open an investigation, you would say that I was shocked and that I should be feeling ashamed to be disrespecting the separation of powers... [[PSD protests.]] ... and even wanting to feed insinuations about a well-known judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office who then performs functions in juvenile courts and who usually arouses his concern. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] Anyway, I can add that all the documentation has been sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and we trust the Public Prosecutor's Office to do any research that is to be done. As for the injured of BES, yes, we maintained our understanding and it was in this assumption that the agreement with the injured was signed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u41	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, the State has advanced money to the Fund to compensate for the damage caused by BES, i.e. a loan was made. If this loan is not paid — money from the State, which is from the taxpayers — you keep the thesis that taxpayers have no invoice to pay here? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u43	In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u44	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies, yes. As you know, the agreement assumed that the State gave a guarantee and, therefore, in that scenario, if it was not paid, the State would also pay on the basis of the guarantee. The reason why, instead of giving guarantee to a loan made to a third entity, the State directly granted that loan was that, by benefiting the State of best financial conditions today, the cost to the State, the risk to the State itself and to the State would be lower than if the previous modality were used, i.e., loan contraction with guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u45	What if he doesn't pay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u46	in the event of failure to pay, the risk is exactly the same as it would exist in the case of the State having given guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u47	Do you pay the taxpayers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u48	of which you continue to disagree is the initial assumption of the agreement: we should not have made the agreement, because there is a risk here. The assessment we make is that the risk of the recovery of claims in which this subrogation is a perfectly compatible risk with the guarantee we have given, that taxpayers will not pay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u49	Is there a risk for taxpayers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u50	... I repeat, taxpayers will not pay the loan that was granted by the State to the injured association. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u51	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u52	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has just contradicted himself: on the one hand, he ensures that taxpayers will not pay the invoice of the damage to BES, on the other hand, says « there is a risk, we think it is a calculated risk, but there is a risk ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u53	Of course it's a calculated risk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u54	Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, it is within that risk that the bill that taxpayers are going to pay. And, normally, the country is used to, very often, to which the Socialist Party leaves forward...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u55	You've run out of time, Mr. Deputies. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u56	Mr President, I shall end with the same tolerance as you had with the Prime Minister in his initial speech. As I was saying, Mr. Prime Minister, the country is very accustomed to the fact that the Socialist Party will leave invoices ahead for the others to pay and is doing the same now, with the bills it is accumulating in the health sector, with the lack of investment and, above all, Mr. Prime Minister, with the constant postponement of the structural reforms that the country needs. Finally, Mr President, once again Mr Prime Minister, in a 15-year debate, failed to answer the questions put to him and he always hid behind political demagogy, because Mr Prime Minister is not prepared for these 15-year debates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u57	With questions of those worth asking for justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u58	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u59	Mr President, Mr President, there is a need for a tip to come and talk about who leaves the accounts for others to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]] But who solved BES? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u60	I know Mr. Prime Minister would rather give Ricardo Salgado another chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u61	Who left... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u62	Just a moment, Prime Minister. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u63	Who hid...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u64	Mr. Prime Minister, please take a break. [[Pause.]] When the Bureau can hear the speaker's speech, I give the floor to Mr Prime Minister. [[Pause.]] Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u65	You hid in the drawer the very grave situation of BANIF, which we had to resolve in three weeks after having postponed the solution for two years, in order not to bear the electoral costs of the BANIF resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They solved the BES and washed their hands, like Pilate, of the thousands of families who were injured in the BES process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the election campaign, when confronted by the injured, they were ashamed to say that they gave money from your purse to support the legal costs of the injured rather than assume the moral and ethical obligation to respond to the duty to compensate who was injured by the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They continue to ignore that the biggest factor of confidence in the financial system is not in international institutions, it is in customers, citizens, who deposit their savings on banks and have to continue to trust them so that the financial system continues to be solvent and trustworthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u66	Don't be demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u67	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u68	What separates us are not taxpayers, what separates us is the lack of shame from those who created a problem, from those who do not have the courage to solve and still opposes anyone who wants and is solving that problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u69	You need to study more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u70	You don't have to study anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block is followed, so you have the floor to put your questions to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u72	Mr President, Prime Minister, economic numbers are good news for the country, without any doubt, and I must say that the Left Block is not surprised. We always said that the recovery of income from work, wages and pensions would have a virtuous effect on the economy and job creation, and we also said whenever there was a strike to go further. On the contrary, the Government has provided for numbers below and has introduced measures for the recovery of income and public investment. But we know today, by numbers, and I think that this is the most important conclusion to be drawn, that we were not only certain when we decided on a policy for the recovery of wages and pensions such as, yes, we can and should go further. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u73	That is because, if we had done so, the economic numbers would be even better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u75	We can transform this economic growth into very concrete effects on people's lives and the measures that are lacking are in view of us all. It is certainly the measures in labour law, combating precariousness, ending with the lapse of collective bargaining to allow real value for wages; it is social support measures, in a country where 2, 5 million people still live in poverty, and this is our urgency; and it is surely public investment and investment in public services. And there is a public service, Mr. Prime Minister, about which, today, I would like to talk to you: health, the National Health Service. This is not the first time that we have brought the issue of health to the 15-year debates, and Mr Prime Minister will rightly say that in two years. There are 2000 new doctors, 2800 new nurses and nurses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u76	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u77	... plus 200 diagnostic technicians, plus 600 workers of different categories in the National Health Service, which resulted in more than half a million consultations in primary care, more 250 000 consultations in hospital care and more 20 300 surgeries only last year. It's true! It's been a long way! [[PSD protests.]] But we have to talk, because that is why we are here, what we need to do, and there is a subject that concerns us and which, I think, concerns the whole country, which is the problem of doctors specialists. We have a huge misunderstanding about the fact that there are still no competitions for the contractualization of these doctors that are necessary in hospitals, as are necessary in health centres. There are 640 specialists waiting for the competitions to be hired, and while hospitals and health centres are waiting for the specialists. Only in family doctors, we see how absurd this scenario is: there are 700,000 National Health Service users who are still waiting for a family doctor and 77 specialists ready to be hired and who have not yet been hired.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u78	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u79	There is a law that says that no newborn in Portugal is without a family doctor and there are 4,000 newborns, already born during the reign of this law, without a family doctor. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u80	The Minister of Health told us here, at the beginning of January, specifically on 9 January, that the contract was for days. After all, when do you open the contests to hire medical specialists? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u82	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins is right, the first major victory of this majority was to have shown that the replacement of income was not only a barrier as, on the contrary, it was a necessary condition for the revival of the economy. We are all reminded that when we were told that the increase in the national minimum wage would hinder employment growth and prevent investment. In three years the national minimum wage rose by 15 %, the extension of the collective contract now covers far more workers than it covered at the beginning of this legislation and the contracts already negotiated in 2017 represented an increase in income by 2, 6 % on average compared to the preceding one. And yet we have had an increase in business investment and, above all, we have had a great increase in employment, a higher level of job growth, because the overwhelming majority of jobs that are being created is employment that is not precarious, it is employment that is not in the long run. About 85 % of jobs created in 2017 is permanent employment. This means that the replacement of income was essential to restore confidence to Portuguese society, to improve the economic climate, to create conditions for investment, but it was also important for us to create the conditions, in particular in the implementation of Community funds, whether a macroeconomic framework for stability, which has enabled interest rates to be reduced and which have created more favourable and reliable circumstances for investment. We therefore have to continue this course, because the great benefit that can be translated into people's daily lives, as far as our economic growth is concerned, is that we can have more and more and more better jobs. This is even the measure of our economic policy. I do not know whether everything I said in the election campaign has fully followed, but one of the things I have repeatedly said was that the big objective of our economic policy would be employment, employment, employment and that is why we have a lot of satisfaction. We are happy with the reduction of the deficit, we are happy with the reduction of the debt, we are happy with the growth and, above all, we are very happy with the creation of employment. It is this economic growth that has allowed us, at the same time, to have a path that leads us to healthier public finances, while at the same time strengthening investment in public school, which is not beyond the fact that there is a reduction in early school dropout, and in the National Health Service (SNS ), which, in fact, has synthesized very well here, saying what has already been achieved. The honourable Member's summary well demonstrates what it is necessary to continue, which is that we will continue to do in the next two years what we have already done in the previous two years. In other words, it is to continue to strengthen investment, to continue to improve equipment, to continue to invest in new health centres, in new family health units, in new continuing care beds, to continue to invest in strengthening staff, especially medical specialists. I still cannot tell you the date on which the contest will be opened,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u83	...but the contest will be opened, because we will continue the course we have been running. And the best guarantee that we will continue to do so in the next two years is precisely what we have done in the previous two years, and which has so well summarized here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u84	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the specialist doctors have been waiting for competition for 10 months. According to industry organizations, 200 to 300 doctors have already given up waiting, some emigrated and others went to the private sector. They are doctors in whose training and specialization the country has invested. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: who makes the decision to hire doctors, is the Minister of Health or the Minister of Finance? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u86	When are we gonna hire the medical specialists that the country needs? I would like to ask another question on this matter of medical specialization, which we are very concerned about. The FNAM (National Federation of Physicians) came to warn that the Government wants to make a change to the legal regime of medical boarding, which ends with the specialization of doctors as a rule to become an exception. Now, the country needs specialists and the excellence of training in Portugal goes through specialists rather than undifferentiated doctors, who only serve private companies that make hourly contracts and want to lower the price of the service of these doctors. So I repeat: medical specialists hired for when? Will the government or will it not maintain the rule that all doctors have to have access to the specialty? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u87	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u88	Mr President, Madam Member, I can answer one of the questions calmly: whoever makes decisions is the Government and the Government is the whole of its members,... [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... which includes the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, even the Prime Minister. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member knows the Government's programme and therefore knows what strategy and what we have to implement in the field of health. I don't know that the specialist doctors will end up, I never heard that, but I have an idea that the identification of the best schedule for the opening of the competitions is being worked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u89	Please proceed, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, we already have good news, doctors will continue to have access to the specialty as a rule. I think that's what I said, and this is what we hope will happen. In fact, it is important that this happens, and that it happens to all doctors, even because it is important that, in health, the problems of the various professional areas will be solved instead of creating them. As you know, there are open cases of urgent negotiation with doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, pharmacists, and helpers. Therefore, in the area of health, we really need to go and find solutions for health professionals and not to have more and more problems. It's bad that country can't take care of who's taking care of us. Health professionals deserve and need answers, which they have been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u91	All right! [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u92	Mr Prime Minister, there is another health issue that I would like to bring to the debate. at this time, it would be said that the Minister of Health has problems with all health professionals less with the administrators of hospitals and private clinics, which depend on the state to survive. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In fact, in Portugal, private health is the business of walking with the extended hand to the state, and, in fact, has yielded. As Isabel Santos said, responsible for BES Health, at the time: better only the armament business. And the truth is that the private initiative, as indeed the president of the association of private hospitals administrations has now come to notice, needs public funding to give value to their business area. Therefore, we have a problem in Portugal, we have the problem of being out of money directly from the National Health Service to finance the private health business. And it's a problem we're not looking at.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u93	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u94	currently, 50% of the turnover of private hospitals is paid by the State, 30% comes directly from the SNS. When we look at the analysis and diagnostics sector, we see that 70% are paid by the state, more than EUR 1200 million goes from SNS to private every year with these contracts. It's absolutely absurd! In fact, I would like to give an example of what is happening in the means of diagnosis, because it is an example in which public waste is clearly seen by financing private people. Thus, a person goes to a consultation in a public hospital and has to do an analysis; leaves this hospital and goes to a private person to do the analysis, paying the analyses to the private; and then goes back to the hospital to another consultation. That is, the person walks from one side to the other and pays the user more and pays the state more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u95	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u96	Mr. President, I'm done. That is, if the State internalized this service, investing in the means of diagnostics that the SNS needs, only the cost of analysis would be paid, it would be cheaper and faster for everyone. Now, what we've seen is that every year it increases the amount of money that goes from state to private. Only in analyses and other means of diagnosis are more than EUR 1200 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u97	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u98	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, only in analysis and other means of diagnosis are more than EUR 1200 million, value that increased 23 million 2015 to 2016 and 33 million 2016 to 2017. It's a public money ice cream. The question I have to ask is: does the government have any purpose in this matter? With what numbers you want to finish this legislation, both from the point of view of internalization...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u99	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u100	... of the means of diagnosis as of strengthening SNS funding, and stagnating the bleeding that has been with the release of money from the public to the private in health? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u101	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u102	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, there is one thing I would like to clarify: the health goals we have for this legislature are those that are quantified in the Government Programme, and they do not have to do with the distribution between public and private, have to do with the quality of services to the user. These goals are very clear, we reach the end of this legislature without any Portuguese without a family doctor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u103	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u104	... we arrive at the end of this legislature with an average of 600 continuous care beds opened per year, we reach the end of this legislature with 100 new family health units. It is in these goals that they focus on the user, on the patient, on the citizen who needs the National Health Service, that we have placed our priority. That is why we have already lowered the moderate rates by 25 %. I repeat the numbers, which you just mentioned...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u105	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u106	... and that are very significant: from 2015 to 2016 we increased the number of consultations and the number of interventions and from 2016 to 2017 we again increased - it. In 2017, we had more 300 000 hospital consultations than in 2016, we had more 18 500 surgical interventions than in 2016, we opened a... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] It was still recently issued an order to validate the 23 open or open family health units that were left to open last year and to fix 30 new units to open this year. We are making the big investment in all hospital units and is improving the investment, improving the equipment and improving the conditions of service of the National Health Service staff that we can offer Portuguese what we have to offer in the public sector, which is at least as good as those that exist in the private sector. But there is something that international studies show: in the National Health Service there are better conditions than in the private sectors, there is more quality than in the private sector, better services are provided than in the private sector. This is why we must continue to invest in the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u107	You go there, do you benefit the private? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u108	... as we have done over these two years and as we will do over the next two years. This is how we will continue to work and we will rely on you to support this work, to continue investing and valuing the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u109	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u110	Mr President, Prime Minister today, we have indeed had good news on economics. I have already had the opportunity to comment and to welcome the efforts of so many Portuguese workers, entrepreneurs and companies who, in fact, lead us to this good result. Mr. Prime Minister has told us this good news, but, of course, his job is also to talk about what is directly dependent on you and which is not such good news. Dir-CL will tell me: « you have an intervention similar to that of the Left Block ». It is remarkable that, after all, the Left Block, now, pay more attention to a topic that the CDS has repeatedly been raising here, in this House,... [[Protests by members of BE Moisés Ferreira and Jorge Duarte Costa.]] ... several months ago, either in the fifteen-year debates or in the questions to the Minister of Health. I suppose, with good communication working in the Government, Mr. Prime Minister already knows the answer to the question that was also asked by the Left Block. It is a question asked so many months ago and so frequently by the CDS, including by our deputy Isabel Galliça Neto, the Minister of Health... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u111	... that it will not be difficult for Mr. Prime Minister to specify the day, or the days, or the months, or, after all, the date to be chosen by the government. Perhaps it will be easier for Mr. Minister of Finance... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... of what Mr Health Minister answers to the following question: what will be the date to open the competition for the 700 specialists who await their opportunity and their right to integrate their specialty into their workplace and thus serve the users who need them every day? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u112	The Minister of Finance is today the punching bag.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u113	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u114	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I note that you have indeed recognised the obvious: in fact, the Left Block was preceded by the CDS-PP...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u115	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u116	...and asked the questions the CDS-PP wanted to ask. [[PS laughter.]] Therefore, as I have already answered Mrs Catarina Martins, I have nothing more to add to what I have already responded to Mrs Catarina Martins in her reply to Mrs Catarina Martins now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u117	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u118	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am amazed because, with so much time to ask your Government, in particular the Minister of Finance -...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u119	He's next door!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u120	... perhaps, if he passed the microphone, he would be able to answer us when the competition for specialists will be opened, you do not have an answer without repeating the response that the Minister of Health has repeatedly given to this House. Do you know what the answer is? "It's for days!"
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u121	It's the "it's for days!"
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u122	«It is for days» is the answer of the Minister of Health, but it does not serve, Mr Prime Minister! on the other day we received a letter, in fact, the newspapers also received, from those who can be hired as family doctors, already with the specialty done. Therefore, young people, not only graduates but specialists in general and family medicine, who have been waiting for months for their competition, doctors who are asked by users to be able to accompany them, as family doctors, in what is pointed out as the priority for their government, which are primary health care, for the so-called family health units. These doctors wait and despair and many of them have already left the SNS, some went to the private sector and others were contacted by service providers companies. Did you know? I mean, we've been well informed, but the CDS's been talking about this for months. Months ago! In fact, I've already asked you these questions, Prime Minister. Let me tell you that health service providers are paid by the State at 24 € for each hour of medical service provided and these young medical specialists, entitled to be integrated and recognized in their specialty, would cost 16 €. What's the rational? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u124	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, we already knew that the CDS had become the champion of public investment in Portugal. He wants to be now the champion of the defense of the National Health Service in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u125	Is that bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u126	But in this case there was a small chance, because Mrs Catarina Martins has already presented to them the question she has now raised. Therefore, Mrs. Deputy, you must understand that I have nothing more to add to what I have already answered, faithfully and frankly, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u127	You never have anything to add! Come in tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u128	But I note with great satisfaction that, contrary to what seemed to result from your first question either Mr. Minister of Health or I say exactly the same thing. As you know, we can always measure time in different units: in years, in months, in days, in hours, in seconds. I could even tell you it's for seconds, it doesn't matter how many seconds! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u129	That is the essential issue. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, at the very moment, the competition will be opened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u130	You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, I don't know why he smiles and I don't know why he has fun with this matter. [[Protests of PS Members.]] You have not responded to the Left Block and continue not responding to the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u132	Not even the doctors! Not even people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u133	Mr. Prime Minister is having fun saying that it will be a day and we have heard this House that is for days. In fact, the days have become months and the users, who are in the National Health Service waiting for specialists, have the right to know when, after all, they will have their family doctor, when they will eventually have their surgery in time and hours, when they will, after all, have their consultation. I have a very varied number here that I could mention to you, but because I already realized that this is not going to give me any answer at all, I am going to move on to another subject, which I also see with health, which is that of the elderly. My question is very simple: does the Prime Minister look at the lead of all the CDS proposals in this House in relation to a deadline for regulating the status of the caregiver and penalizing ill-treatment in the elderly and their abandonment? Does it or does it not see itself in this position of the Socialist Party? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u134	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u135	Mr President, Madam Member, it does not hurt, but in fact I find it difficult to feel any fun to see that your questions mimic the questions of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u136	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u137	in this case, you can't help but realize that I find some grace. I must say, in fact, that I must not be the only one. at least, many people should be surprised and find it strange that the CDS has nothing more to add to this Chamber than it had just been said by the Left Block. I think that is quite strange and, at least, amusing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member, on the question she has raised, repeats itself, because she has already put it several times and I have also had the opportunity to repeat the same answer several times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u138	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u139	Mr. President, is the answer, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u140	Looks like a Monty Python sketch!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u141	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u142	Mr President, Madam Member, it is a relatively simple question to answer: the Government does not comment, nor does it pronounce on votes made in this House of the Republic, because it respects it, in solidarity and institutional terms, as a sovereign body that is... [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] ...and the government is not a commenter of the actions of the other sovereign bodies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u143	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u144	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, once again, record that answer, but I also have to tell you that it is all a matter of priorities because, when it is interested in giving directions to the Socialist Party to change the sense of vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u145	Suggestions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u146	... in certain areas, as we have seen in the State budget in relation to the area of energy and the interests of the energy sector, these indications appear, the turns are given and the votes are revised, etc. etc. I note that, with regard to the ill-treatment of the elderly, Mr. Prime Minister is in solidarity with his bench and that, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, he has nothing to say on this matter to his bench. I note that the elderly cannot count on the protection of the Socialist Party, nor on the solidarity of the Prime Minister, also the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, in a matter which has been persistently denounced...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u147	But a proposal from the CFP has been approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u148	...and that you need to be treated. But, Mr. Prime Minister, let's go to another topic that perhaps answers me: that of the security area. On security, I have often said that the government does not, in fact, deal with this area of sovereignty. And unfortunately, history repeats itself in several other areas. We have seen the three branches of the Armed Forces signaling the scarcity of the number of effective ones, we have seen the threat of the security forces to make a paralysing, because once again it is at stake the government's fulfilment of commitments on the part of people who feel absolutely devalued. Two days ago, there was a lack of control at the Lisbon Prison Establishment with a problem with prison guards. My question is whether you're going to answer me here too, how you answered about health, that is, that's all right. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u149	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u150	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, on these matters, I believe that normality prevails at the Lisbon Prison Establishment. The demonstration, let us say, the protest of a group of prison guards was duly answered by ensuring the normality of the situation in this prison establishment. The existence of labour and trade union conflicts is not something that is unusual, it is not particularly unusual in an institution that has about 15 trade unions and where the dynamic of competition itself generates a very specific conflict which Mr Nuno Magalhães may one day explain in detail to you. As regards the question of the Armed Forces, as the military leaders themselves have had occasion to clarify publicly, nothing is at stake in the capacity of our Armed Forces to carry out fully the missions entrusted to them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u151	Mrs Asunción Cristas, you still have some time to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u152	Mr President, Prime Minister, on security and defence nothing concerns you. We'll be there to follow up on this. On another subject, I would like to ask you one question: how much Portugal will pay more in the European budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u153	Mr. Prime Minister, to answer, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u154	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, allow me a general comment on your speech. First of all, with regard to health, I find it absolutely extraordinary that nothing has been said here more than has been said by your colleague Catarina Martins. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] This is because you were part of a government that had a significant de-investment in this area and is addressing a government that has already hired more than 2000 doctors than those who existed when you ceased to be a minister; more 2200 nurses than those who existed when you ceased to be a minister; more than 200 diagnostic technicians than those who existed when you ceased to be a minister; and more than 600 professionals from various essential activities to the National Health Service since you ceased to be a minister. This is a government that has already lowered the moderate rates by 25% and in which the National Health Service has increased its production in consultation and medical interventions. This is the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the elderly, Mrs Deputies — and this is also the reality — I must remind you that you are talking about a government that has restored the pensions that your government has cut,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that restored the solidarity complement for the elderly that his government had cut,... Continued PS applause. ... which restored the updates of pensions that had ceased to exist, which had already made two extraordinary increases in pensions and which, thanks to the economic growth which ensured the country, had for the first time that the generality of pensions had a real increase because the economy grew above 2 %. This is what we do every day for the elderly in Portugal to live in better conditions. It was also this majority who approved the correction to their income law, protecting the elderly in relation to the lease that had ceased to be protected by V. Ex.a. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, with all honesty, you should often look at the rearviewer before asking questions about what this government is doing to solve all the problems that you and your government have left and worsened during your term of office.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u155	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u156	To conclude, with regard to the next budget, I hope that you share the national will that neither the way out of the United Kingdom nor the new security, defence and migration responsibilities will sacrifice agricultural policy or cohesion policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u157	Thank you for finishing, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u158	More resources are needed for this to happen and more resources are needed for States to contribute more. Therefore, we have already said that we support the Commission's proposal to extend the contribution to 1, 2 % of the Product, as well as support the creation of Union own resources, either through the taxation of the digital economy or through financial transactions, or through the carbon economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u159	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u160	Yes, more own resources are needed, more transfers are needed if we want the European Union to not diminish its ability to support our agriculture or the harmonious development of our regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u161	Mrs Asunción Cristas has two seconds to go. I wonder if you want to use them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u162	Mr President, I intend to use 2 seconds, plus 1 minute and 33 seconds, which was the tolerance given to the Left Block. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u163	We don't need the table anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u164	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on the European issue, let me tell you that, if you are careful, you will find that you have already introduced in this Parliament a draft resolution of the CDS where precisely an extension of the Union budget is advocated so that the money of agriculture and cohesion, which are very important to our country, is not affected. The question I asked was not that and the Prime Minister did not answer. What I wanted to know is how much we're gonna contribute to more. It's another question with no answer. You know why, Prime Minister? Because then I could probably say that, for this amount, we have the numbers of economic growth that would certainly be able to accommodate this increase of contribution by the Portuguese State. What we do not think is possible, viable or desirable, because, moreover, it alienates a substantial part of our sovereignty, it is to be creating European taxes in such sensitive areas, where, moreover, we want to create areas of great competitiveness, such as the digital area. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u165	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u166	In conclusion, Mr President, with your tolerance, I would say to the Prime Minister that he should pay more attention when he answers us about health, because it is no longer the first time he answers, the questions have been asked many times. What if the CDS asks questions that, for instance, were also asked by the Left Block, don't you think it's strange?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u167	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u168	Isn't there anything that's not so good in this whole movie?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u169	It can happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u170	Perhaps a better reflection needs to be made: to join the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health at the same table and, for once, to decide what your priorities are and to face them, because those who suffer are the patients and are the users every day. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u171	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u172	Mr President, Prime Minister, has brought us to this debate the issues of the valorisation of our economy, in its relationship with innovation, the production of knowledge, with the background of the so-called "digital technological revolution" and with which it has been agreed to call industrial revolution 4.0. The country needs to move forward in the development of its productive forces. This is an essential component in the country's development programme that we recommend to combat its weaknesses, its dependence, its structural deficits, the weaknesses of its productive sectors and the economy. But it is a challenge that is not only confined to technological progress and to the development of the national scientific system, but that needs to be accompanied by social progress and in other areas of our collective life. A technological development and a so-called 'digital revolution' that cannot be four in mechanisms for exploiting work and zero in the level of rights or be a pretext for new extortions of those who work, including those who produce science, the many precarious pockets and we need to integrate into our scientific and technological system. And what we are seeing and hearing here about the need to adjust and simplify labour and social policies and even the policy itself to the areas of 4.0 poses a central problem, which is the appropriation of the gains of technological development that we advocate and the one we aspire to. It raises the question of who is serving and who is serving. In particular, if it serves a minority or is at the service of the working majority and of general development; if it is a pretext for the expansion and flexibility of working hours or an opportunity to promote the progressive reduction of working hours for all sectors, by giving a firm fight against deregulation; if technological development, being conditioned to produce more, it is also not an increased support to ensure public social security, valued with new forms of financing, complementing the current system of contributions — social security capable of ensuring decent retirement pensions and a strengthened framework for social protection in the disease, unemployment, old age; if the technological development of which the country needs can be subject to private control and ownership of multinationals and monopolies, and with them the domain over other economic and social processes, or it requires and ensures the replacement of control systems, the public preservation of fundamental levers of the economy, in particular in its strategic sectors; if the technological development is the source of maximizing profit and concentration of wealth in the hands of a few or more efficient performance tools, a more efficient performance. The technological development that we need is the one that has full employment as a fundamental objective with a planned intervention line, where adequate programming and a vocational education and training policy are present, with a view to continuing training. Technological development cannot be a pretext for, on behalf of a pretentious modernization of labour relations, imposing new and disguised forms of precarious work, but rather the possibility of ensuring the right to work, ending this scourge of precarious links. In order to respond to the problems that the imminent acceleration of technological development poses, it is important to equalize these and other dimensions, because the answer cannot be partial, if we want to build a society that is oriented towards the inclusion of all and where each one has the right to live with dignity and not a society of excluded from work and life, brutally unfair and unsolicited and, of course, increasingly undemocratic. I ask you, Prime Minister: are we going to deal with something without answering all the others? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u173	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u174	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the honourable Member has made quite clear several of the fundamental issues which, in fact, the transformation of the productive system presents to us. And you're right: we can't deal with any one alone without having a whole view. That is why qualification is a key issue. First of all, because we know that the more people are qualified and the more qualified each one has the most opportunities to face the challenges of the future. Today, we know that many of the young people, who are in their educational course, will perform professions that are not yet invented. Therefore, what is absolutely essential is their training not to be shared, but to prepare them to learn throughout their lives and be able to play an active citizenship and participation in the world of work, in the face of the enormous uncertainties that arise in the future. But it also implies an answer to those who are already in the labour market and who have obviously had a training that did not include many of those who are today's needs. That is why investment in qualifications and, in particular, digital skills is absolutely crucial. And this is about a question which has only been addressed in your speech, but which is central and which I have insisted on here. One of the fundamental reasons why it is necessary to give priority to combating precariousness, in addition to being, first of all, a question of citizenship and respect for the dignity of the worker himself, has to do with the productivity of the company itself, because on the basis of precariousness there is no investment in lifelong training and no investment in lifelong training there is no capacity to fully exploit what is the new technological resources and the new opportunities for scientific development. In fact, this revolution of Industry 4.0 raises major questions about the future of the labour market, some distressing, other hopeful, but one that is certain, that it will not be possible to overcome this revolution without an active participation of those who are the most qualified frameworks existing in each company and in the whole of society. That is why the priority of qualifications has to be coupled with investment in the research and development system, it has to go hand in hand with investment in the technological modernization of companies, it has to go hand in hand with lifelong training and it has to work hand in hand with the creation of social mechanisms that support the moments of transition. It was therefore very important for the recent approval in Gothenburg of the fundamental principles of the European Union's social pillar, because this social pillar must now become a plan of action, giving people a new priority, as a centrality, in the idea of cohesion in Europe, which has a territorial dimension, but must increasingly have a human dimension focused on people. This means a new challenge and a new fight that we must also fight within the European Union. However, as I said, only with an integral approach to this challenge will we be able to overcome it. That is why the preparation of Portugal's next post-2020 strategy is so important and it is necessary to involve the Portuguese society as a whole. That is why we started this debate last June at the Economic and Social Council ( CES ), which we discussed with all the social partners in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation ( CPCS ), with the Territorial Consultative Council, with the universities, with the politicians, with the business associations, with the world of work, because it is essential that this strategy is not only a concerted strategy for all political actors but that involves the whole of society. This is because, if we focus on this, in articulated way, in these various dimensions and in which we assume innovation as the great engine of development, we will be able to overcome this battle and the issues of the quality of qualifications and the quality of work are vital in order to be able to overcome this revolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u175	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u176	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, yes, we will be here for this more in-depth debate, but I would like to remind you that these fascinating advances in science and technology always, but always, have benefited only one part, or essentially one part, which was that of capital rather than that of work. That is what is at this moment at stake: to know where this great conquest of the advances of science and technology is going. Speaking of work and workers, I'm also talking about who worked. It was late that the process of valuing workers' reforms with long careers was initiated. The advanced solution was far from the one proposed by the CFP, the guarantee of reform, without penalties, for all workers with 40 or more years of discounts. But this first step also opened up the prospect of a more comprehensive solution in the short term, announcing two further stages of change to the early retirement scheme. Mr Vieira da Silva said at that time that he hoped that the work for the remaining cases could be completed in 2017 so that there would be, and I quote, « at least one step first » at the beginning of 2018. This statement confirmed what was stated in the Government documents submitted to the social partners with criteria for valuing long-term contribution careers in the following two stages. In addition, it was also to ensure that this urgent response was realized that we presented a proposal within the framework of the State Budget for 2018, in particular, focusing on the elimination of penalties relating to the application of the sustainability factor, among others. This proposal was rejected by the PS. Mr. Prime Minister, days ago, a 61-year-old worker, with 42 years of discounts, receiving the national minimum wage, made the survey of his contribution career: he would receive €415, if there were no such penalties. With this sustainability factor, the worker was informed that she will receive €293. No one, of course, here in this Chamber, is able to accept this fairly, i.e., that in a 42-year framework of discounts, to work hard, is found, by the State, the answer of €293 at the end of this long working life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u177	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u178	I believe, Mr Prime Minister, that this is a compelling example that we have to take steps forward in the realization of this right, a right of those who want to reform after a working life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u179	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u180	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is true that the productivity gains resulting from technological transformation must be distributed more fairly. They must share with greater justice, surely, in income, but they must also share with greater justice in working time and in the distribution of work throughout life. This is one of the reasons why we in the Government programme have stated a fundamental principle, that of the need for diversification of sources of social security financing, so that they do not continue to rely exclusively on labour relations, but may have other forms of financing. We took a first step in 2017 with the creation of the additional to IMI (municipal property tax) as a source of social security financing. We have now taken a new step with the first phase of the additional to the IRC (the income tax of collectives) to also revert to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Furthermore, the CFP has repeatedly presented the idea that there should also be a contribution on the basis of gross added value, so that, too, we will find new ways of financing social security. This issue is absolutely crucial, because this increase in productivity will certainly be the way to compensate for the demographic trajectory that penalises the future of social security systems. It is in this group that we must at the same time make progress in rights and ensure what has to be sacred, which is the sustainability of the future of our social security. We can never forget that the great pope with whom the right always shakes and who always wants to threaten the future of public social security is the unsustainableness of social security itself. However, to ensure their sustainability is to guarantee revenue, but also to manage the effort. We have already had several debates here about the terrible historical weight that the country bears and which is expressed in the very long life of many and many people, such as that of the woman whom you have been given the opportunity to find.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u181	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u182	I will now finish, Mr President. That is why the compromise we have — and not only in the words of Minister Vieira da Silva, but also in what I have said here, in this House, and which I found in the very explanatory statement of the proposal for a law — is that this convergence will be phased up. We are currently in consultation to evaluate the application of the first phase so that we can determine the progress towards the second phase. And we are doing the same with regard to the sustainability factor, where the double penalization that exists is also currently being evaluated in the context of social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u183	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u184	He knows the timetables for social dialogue and knows that we will, very briefly, have a proactive position on these two issues: a factor of sustainability and continuation of the trajectory, which we assume, of replacement of justice for long-term contribution careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u185	It is the turn of the Green Party. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u186	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is no doubt that the positive results of the economy cannot be dissociated from the political options that have been taken, including the replacement of income to Portuguese families. But it is also true, Mr. Prime Minister, that there are other areas where it is essential to intervene and that only appropriate political measures can lead to transformation for the benefit of Portuguese. I am talking, in particular, about public services as essential as health, education or others. And the truth, Mr. Prime Minister, is that we are very deprived of human resources in our public services. The health area is an example of this. The urgency of the competition for specialists has already been mentioned here, but Mr. Prime Minister is also aware that many nurses are moving from hospitals to health centres, thus disenfranchising nurses' hospitals and opening up a decisive shortage. Only in the Algarve have there been 40 people who moved from hospitals to health centers. The Hospital de Santa Maria will be with less than 54 nurses in March. So the question that arises, Prime Minister, is the following: what will the government do to supply this staff deficit? Are you going to open a contest for nurses? We can also address other areas, in particular the one which Mr Prime Minister here brought here today, namely research, innovation and qualification. When we talk about these areas, we can't forget about scientific research scholarships. And the degree of scientific employment is important to combat the precariousness of these pockets. But the truth, Prime Minister, is that it is not being applied by the institutions. It is therefore necessary to ask the Government what measures it will take to ensure that all pockets covered by the transitional rule have access to its contract of employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u187	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u188	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I can almost assure you that, almost certainly, there will be no public service where there is no lack of human resources. If I talk to any of my ministers, everyone says they lack human resources. And we know they're missing. In fact, they could not fail after so many years without the renewal of the Public Administration. We even know that there are sectors where the generation gap is enormous, as happens, for example, in universities, and where it will hardly be made, in a healthy way, the intergenerational transition. So what we are doing — we have been doing it throughout this legislature — is reverse the results of a continued policy of de-investment. Let us reverse them in pensions, wages and schedules, but we must also do so in terms of human resources. Today, we have more than 5,000 people working in the National Health Service than we had. The honourable Member will say-CL to me that it is not yet enough. I do not contradict it, but what I tell you is that we will continue to increase resources in the National Health Service in the coming years, as well as we have to do with security forces, the Armed Forces, the justice and education sectors, forest guards, nature watchers, etc. We must be able to make this effort in a way that responds to all needs and, harmoniously, to overcome these failures. That's what we're gonna do. With regard to scientific employment, the law is clear. Therefore, the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) supports the hiring of 3000 new resources. But we must respect university autonomy, and if universities or political institutes do not use the faculty that exists in law and funding systems, we have no means of forcing those who are autonomous to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u189	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u190	Mr President, it is quite true that Mr. Prime Minister says that there is a lack of human resources in all public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u191	I said "almost certainly in all"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u192	But, Prime Minister, that is why, for example, we wanted to increase the number of nature vigilantes much more than the one the government finally accepted. Therefore, the proposal we made at the State Budget was not as far as the Greens wanted. What I mean by this is that it is sometimes necessary to be aware of what results from these shortcomings in order to walk a little faster. And in the area of health this is fundamental, because defalating human resources health services has direct repercussions on the care of the patient—we are talking about the disease or also about prevention and treatment. So these are really very serious things. With regard to the pockets, we believe that the Government must take affirmative action to ensure its rights. Mr. Prime Minister came here to speak of the autonomy of the institutions. So I would like to reply to you with the funding of the institutions, so that we can in fact guarantee a contract of work for these people, who are working to promote the country's research, innovation and qualification. Therefore, the Government should not be alien to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u193	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u194	I will finish, Mr. President. I just wanted to ask one last question, very quickly, which has to do with the public tenders announced by the Government for the exploitation of lithium in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, lithium, as it is obvious, is important, in particular, for the batteries of electric cars, to free ourselves from fossil fuels and for the attack on climate change. But here is a reverse of the medal, with which we must be very careful, Prime Minister — we now have the example of the deep pollution of the Tejo: the exploitation of lithium has a highly polluting character, particularly of water resources, and it opens craters around the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u195	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u196	Mr. Prime Minister, do not forget that biodiversity is a global challenge as important as climate change. What is the fear of The Greens? Our fear is the completely uncontrolled increase in this lithium exploration. I want government assurances that this will not happen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u197	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u198	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as regards the financing of the institutions, the Government has signed with the institutions of higher education a multi-annual contract of trust which has provided them with financing conditions, a contract that has been completed. There was a moment of divergence, which was duly measured, having the accounts were correct and the issues exceeded. Secondly, the institutions are opening the tenders as they understand it. With regard to the National Health Service, I want to tell you that we are not failing it from human resources. This is very important. We want that to be faster? Me too! But also what for nature's vigilantes, as well as for forest guards, for teachers, for helpers. That is what we all want, but the exercise we have to do is, in the face of the many shortcomings, try to make them compatible with the resources we have available. Finally, and with regard to lithium, this is a very important resource that we have available, but the exploitation of which, of course, has to be ensured under the best environmental conditions, under the penalty of a resource becoming a threat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u199	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To speak, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members over the last almost three decades have shown or have shown that Portugal has witnessed a remarkable transformation in the quantity and quality of knowledge produced and disseminated. The increase in scientific production, as well as the increase in the qualification of our human resources and in the training of doctors, are representative of the capacity of the national science and technology system to respond positively, when requested, to the increase in resources and incentives created in public policy. Until a long time ago, the main challenge was to increase the access of our young people to higher education, at the same time allowing our institutions of higher education and research to aspire to international recognition and prestige. Today, to this challenge, which is still very current, we can and should add that to ensure that knowledge can also be valued, socially and economically. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government's commitment in this area becomes credible and clear when we look at the many initiatives under way. I will focus on this intervention in three critical areas: evaluation, valorization and internationalization. During 2016 and 2017, and ten years after similar exercise, the OECD developed an evaluation of higher education, science, technology and innovation systems in Portugal that resulted in a set of recommendations presented on Friday last week, these recommendations that have as their main objective to strengthen the performance and impact of research and development institutions and higher education in Portugal, in an international perspective and in a context that will have to be increasingly multidisciplinary. We all recognize today that the current challenges, whether in the field of health, the environment, energy or even justice, require dialogue and collaboration between multiple domains of knowledge. The OECD recommendations focus on four points: strengthening the capacity of R & D (research and development) and innovation, in conjunction with higher education, ensuring a close link to the territory and with an impact on the creation of highly qualified employment; stimulating the diversification of the higher education system and R & D activities, in particular by extending, modernising, flexible and strengthening the scope of teaching, both university and technical; strengthening the conditions of scientific employment and the development of academic and scientific careers and empowering institutions for the rejuvenation of these careers; and, finally, continuing to stimulate the internationalization and opening of science, technology, higher education and innovation systems. With regard to valuation, we know that the government is developing important programmes to accelerate the transfer and enhancement of knowledge to the business fabric. This program, which aims to train interface centres and strengthen collaborative innovation between universities, politicians and companies and create research and innovation networks in new thematic areas through collaborative laboratories, is a structural reform that can improve the contribution that science and knowledge can make to develop the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to internationalization, the trend towards attracting foreign investment by technological companies in Portugal is becoming increasingly apparent. Today they are coming to the country not only to lower costs, but to find talent and work in Portugal with a highly qualified generation. To Google’s recent news, creating more than 500 jobs, joins several others such as Vestas, Renewable Energy, or Amyris, which is opening a European development centre in the field of biotechnology, both in Porto, as well as dozens of others in Lisbon, Porto, Braga, Guimarães, Fundão, Sintra and Oeiras, in the most varied domains and where thousands of new jobs are being created. Mr Prime Minister, will these investments and reforms be sufficient to help reverse the reality of the last years of the country's most qualified generation and to abandon once again the model of low-wage competitiveness, bringing sustained growth of Portuguese companies in the coming years based on the value of human resources and knowledge? I would also like to say that we liked the challenges identified by the OECD in its initial intervention. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for confirming the objective of achieving global investment in R & D from 3 % by 2030, one third public, two third private. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u201	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u202	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, first of all the OECD report is very important because there are no good public policies without good evaluation, and one of the major functions that the OECD can perform is indeed to evaluate public policies, especially on a continuous horizon. Science policy is not done in one day, it is done over decades and, in fact, if there was a science policy that allowed to change the panorama of our science in Portugal it was the fact that it had ensured the continuity of Prof. Mariano Gago's policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was precisely because of the need for this continuity that I, at the end of my speech, said that, once and for all, we must mobilize ourselves to, in a certain, persistent and continuous way, build a knowledge society. What we cannot have again is what the OECD has signalled, that is, a policy of stop-and-go, of hesitation on which is the basis of our development. Now, once and for all, we need to see that the model and the engine of our development are not the low wages, but innovation. This is very important, because when we see that from 2010 to 2015 there was a continued de-investment in research and development, we realize that, to reverse this, as we started to invest in 2016, it is necessary a great national goal, a great mobilization of the country as a whole, to reach the goal of 3 % of the gross domestic product, of which two thirds private and one third public devoted to research and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this commitment is all the more important because of the continued de-investment in the previous legislation, it is absolutely impossible today to reach the target that had been set for 2020. This means we can't always stop and start. That is why, in the adoption of a national strategy, all the measures we have now taken are absolutely crucial. And these are passed on to different levels. When we change the discriminatory rules on the access of vocational education students to higher education, we are not only contributing to democratizing access to higher education, we are also guaranteeing the opportunity that the country has to have a greater range of Portuguese to participate in a higher level of its qualification. And we have this, this generation, is fundamental to the construction of our future. Therefore, I have often said that the greatest strategic challenge we have is not only fixing the most qualified generation but also recovering those who have left. And this goes not only through access to higher education but also, necessarily, for new generations of housing policies, by investing, as we are investing, in social policies supporting first childhood, in day care centers, in new family allowance, so that new generations have better living conditions in Portugal, have more income available, despite wages practiced in Portugal. But this is also about what we have insisted on, which is the essence of having a better job. And when he said that, this year, our great design has to be better employed, it's because, in fact, precariousness is an enemy of quality, low wages are enemies of quality. And if we cannot afford to lose this generation, we have, as a society, to produce good public policies and also to have better companies who realize that they must have better, more qualified frameworks, with better training and with continued investment in lifelong training. That is why it is absolutely essential to make this change, and that is the greatest strategic challenge we have to face. Fortunately, I feel and find this new mentality more and more in Portuguese companies. It is not only the foreign direct investment firms who come here, because today we have the human resources that we have not previously had and which allow them to settle here in Portugal today, and set these resources here, but it is also the Portuguese companies who realize that today this qualification is absolutely essential. Therefore, the Collaborative Laboratories ( COLAB ) are of the greatest importance because they approach the companies of the knowledge production centres. The knowledge production centres and their proximity to the business fabric are important not only for the space industry, but also for mountain culture, for precision agriculture, to improve the quality of what is produced in the soil. I usually take the following example: we today have wines of excellence as we had not been 20 years ago. And it was not the climate that changed dramatically, nor was it the soil that changed itself, nor were the castes that turned into a magical effect. What we have today most in the quality of wines is that, today, they incorporate better knowledge, because they take better advantage of soils, caste and climate. This means that knowledge is an intangible value but of the greatest importance, either for the most modern industry, or for the most traditional activity of the human being, which is agricultural production. That is why these Collaborative Laboratories are essential. But never forgetting the following: the best way to ensure the transfer of knowledge, the most direct, the most reproductive is even scientific employment within companies. That is why the use of postgraduates, doctors and postdocs within companies is absolutely essential for us to have an increasingly developed and increasingly competitive industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if there is something we can be sure of: if, last year, our industrial production contributed to an increase of 14, 7% of exports, it was not because the minimum wages remained frozen, it was not because we continued to destroy rights, it was not because we continued to block collective bargaining; it was, on the contrary, because companies today invest more in innovation and, investing more in innovation, are more productive and, being more productive, are more competitive and, being more competitive, can export more. This is the battle we are winning, and it is in this battle that the country has to concentrate over the next decade, if we really want to have an ongoing decade of more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u203	Even in the time of the Socialist Party, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u204	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, the theme chosen for this debate, as a rule, was "economy, innovation and knowledge". That is what we discussed in the previous intervention. We know, as we have emphasized here, that our competitiveness and our best place among the economies with which we interact depend on the appropriate qualification of our human resources and, subsequently, on the ability of companies to host them, on the value of national products and on the inductive relationship between educational and research institutions and companies, or on the capacities of innovation and expertise that gain importance in the face of the small scale of our productive activity, or also on a reorientation of external investment, strengthening their innovative and diversified charities. These are the challenges that would be of interest to discuss, at a transitional stage, the redefinition of economies, employment and corporate relations in general. these challenges the opposition seems not to want to talk. But that is what we need to take care of, continuing on the paths that have led to good results. And it is precisely these good results that the opposition does not recognize and that in these debates it does not debate. This debate, once again, has shown that the opposition is horrifying the success of the government and treats this success as if it was not the success of the country either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the policies we have developed that make Portuguese experience a path that distinguishes from others in the European Union. Our economy has the most sustainable growth in recent decades, combining multiple positive factors. After the decline in growth rate in the second half of 2015, we recovered, in the second half of 2016, anticipating, as the Minister of Finance emphasized, the acceleration of the European economy and growing more than the euro area average. And now the data released for 2017 by the INE reinforce this trend with more investment and more exports. It is already known with this government — yes, with this government and not with another government! — that the investment and trust of most entrepreneurs has been shown, reaching the greatest increase in the last 10 years: three times more than the euro area and above the growth of Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Austria and others. The economic growth achieved puts the country back to convergence, 17 years later — 17 years later! — with the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the parties of the left parliament, with a government that has diabolized the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I hope to have a time tolerance equivalent to that of a non-voting party which has less than one fifth of the Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Prime Minister, for the opposition, the merits are always foreign. The opposition now seems to remain the spread of the idea that it is a 'hard sun'. The PS is convinced that the convergence route started last year will be maintained-CL this year. But we should not underestimate, Mr Prime Minister, for example, the fragility that represents the high public debt. Mr. Prime Minister, what matters now to say is that we have learned from the budgetary imbalances of the past and I fear - as proved by the continued reduction in deficit and public debt, the greatest debt reduction of the last 20 years. The PSD, yes, should be concerned, not with the results and accounts of this government, no longer with the four years in which it was drowning Portuguese families and closing thousands and thousands of companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u205	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u206	... no longer with the terrible inheritance left in the bank, but with the only remaining PSD government in Portugal, Madeira, where, once again, as shown in the 2017 Implementation Report, reaches a budget deficit of at least seven times higher than the Socialist Azores Government, again negatively affecting public accounts and leaving the other invoices to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it's about the lack of PSD commitment to the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u207	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u208	... and on the commitment to relaunch the economy and improve the income of families, taking care of public finances, which is the issue at the end of this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u209	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u210	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César, unfortunately, the honourable Member is right. The budgetary performance of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has certainly reserved the unpleasant surprise of the penalisation of at least one tenth of the deficit in the administrative sector. Fortunately, due to the government's prudent financial management, the performance of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the generality of local authorities, this will not have dramatic consequences for the country. But if we are going to meet the goal that we have proposed, this is due to the increased effort of the other public administrations and we owe nothing to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which, on the contrary, is due to all of us the fact that the worsening caused by the public deficit in 2017 will not have any major consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] However, the PSD will not be able to welcome the verification of all the demons it has sought to convene. Two years are clear about the facts: everything you imagined was going to happen, it didn't happen. But everything that really wanted to happen didn't happen. And, moreover, it will not happen, because we will follow the same line to the end of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is this trajectory that we must continue to follow, with determination, the prudence and common sense that have allowed us to go beyond what we had promised, contrasting well with those who had gone beyond what was required of them. We are not going beyond what is required of us, but, fortunately, we have managed to go beyond what we have promised. And that is how we will continue to do, step by step, with certainty and determination, so that the economy continues to grow and converge with the European Union, so that the deficit continues to decrease, debt continues to fall, interest burden continues to decline and, above all, so that we continue to have what is most important, that is, more and better employment for an increasing number of Portuguese and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u211	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u212	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why we are here and that is why we will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-14.u213	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow for 3 p.m. and the only item on the agenda will be the request to the Government No 17/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On general policy focused on investment needs in public services, particularly in the health, education, transport and communications sectors ( CFP ), with statutory votes at the end of the debate. I wish to all and to all the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
