ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, which is quite synthetic, since we have as our only point the appeal to the Government No 19 / XIII ( 3 ) on the preparation of the next fire season, requested by the CDS-PP, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file. Mr. Secretary ( Duarte Pacheco ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits which fall to 5. the Commission and the projects of lein. 814 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Ensures the existence of self-services for the provision of medical, nursing and psychology care in prisons( 5 ). the amendment to Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October approving the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom ( PCP ), 815 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts( 13 ). the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act ( BE), 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension and renewal of post-doctoral research grants until the publication of the outcome of the tenders provided for in Article 23. the Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE), 817 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decreases the maximum period of loyalty in electronic communications and introduces new mandatory elements to the contract ( NAP) and 818 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act ( PSD ). Draft resolutions Nos 1459 / XIII ( 3 ) were also accepted. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent lifting of all at-risk capital infrastructures and a plan for intervention and mitigation of risks of the coastal range, replacement of donor cords and dredgings in the Algarve, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1460 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance the exercise of Portuguese teaching functions abroad ( CFP ), which goes down to 8. The Commission, 1461 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to health for patients with sclerodermia ( PCP ) which falls to 9. the Commission, 1462 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the contractual and wage stability of psychologists working in prison establishments ( PAN ), 1463 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government disseminate information on fire response through a specific Internet site for this purpose and through other mechanisms for access to information ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission in connection with 1. the Commission, 1464 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to implement the simplified information sheet in electronic communications contracts ( PS ), 1465 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1466 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1467 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the resurgence of the profession of custodians by hiring and training at least 350 professionals ( NAPs ), lower than 11. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will then enter our agenda today, which, as I have already mentioned, consists of the discussion of the appeal to the Government No 19 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Preparation of the next fire season ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u3	Mr President, first of all, if you will allow me, I would like to welcome you on this return and say that I am sorry to see you back in such a short period of time and in good health, which is obviously good news for us. I would like to begin this speech by saying that we are here today to talk about the future, and therefore we have proposed an inquiry into the next time of fires. But it is not possible to talk about this future without looking to the past, without looking at the recent past, particularly the tragedy that occurred last year in this area. This question is part of what has been done in the study and the reports we are familiar with today: three reports, two of the Independent Technical Commission ( TSI ) and also the report requested by the Government to Mr. Professor Xavier Viegas. The reports, whether regarding Pedrogão or the fires that took place in October, tell us of course that it failed, above all, the ability to predict and anticipate the risk that we faced. They failed the communications, failed the command, failed who was chosen to command, to a great extent by inexperience—that is what the reports tell us—and of course what had already failed in Pedrogão would be repeated in an equally serious way in October. In fact, it is worth remembering, as we have already said, that in August the Prime Minister said that «I was no longer thinking about fires but, yes, preparing the fillings». That was what the Prime Minister said in August. We saw the tragedy that happened in October. And the repetition of the tragedy in October is particularly serious. Why? Because there were obviously extreme conditions and it failed the forecast again, which happened again a second time when the protection system was already in demobilisation and no one ensured that it was mobilized to meet the possibility of such a serious occurrence. What was exposed in October is very evident: the inaction of the government, the inability to react, the absolute collapse of the state and the populations, unfortunately, many of them in hand, given to their own fate. It's unacceptable! It was unacceptable, as is evident. [[CDS-PP applause.]] How did the Socialist Party and the majority support it? He reacted, obviously, by smoothing, waving, shaking all the water from the hood that he could, not assuming responsibilities, doing everything — in a phrase that is famous, of course, historical, and that we, in the CDS, well know—that the guilt should die single and that no one should be held responsible for this tragedy. It is clear that everything that happened had already happened. It was already clear that the political positions were unsustainable, it was already clear that the resignations were inevitable, and the ministers, the high-level minister and the Prime Minister, continued to say that no, that there would be no resignations, that everything was within normality. In fact, this is an extraordinary thesis that has not been abandoned by the Prime Minister until today, because a few days ago he said: « whatever happens, we are here, we continue». In other words, taking responsibility, having a sense of state is something that fails and is very lacking in this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Today, the great doubt—and these statements support this doubt—is whether the Government, the Socialist Party and those who support it will have already taken the lesson or not learned the lesson after these two tragedies. It should be borne in mind that, even in the case of compensation, the Government has stopped where it can compensate for serious injuries. Only after an initiative of ours, after a timely word from the President of the Republic, after even parties from the majority come to draw attention to this fact is that the government has given in and has also agreed to compensate for serious injuries. They've broken to the limit! And the strategy was always an apology strategy. First of all, to blame the strange phenomena, nature, what was inevitable, nothing could have been done; secondly, to do as they always do, to launch insinuations to the past, to the former government, to the eucalyptus, as if the tragedy of Pedrogan and then that which took place in October had been the fault of eucalyptus three-year-olds—in fact, the biggest stain that burned was not even eucalyptus- for the responsibilities of the troika, for decades of ordination, i.e. for anything other than direct responsibility, or even for the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency Networks and Security of Portugal) or for the inoperence of the Kamov, being bought either by the SIRESP or the Kamovs, at the time, and today is Mr. Prime Minister of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The strategy is always to excuse those who did not organize, did not foresee, did not prevent, did not prepare, chose those who were not prepared, allowed demobilization and did not, at least, respond to urgent requests for media reinforcement. Obviously there is an essential doubt: what has led the government to react in these four months? I mean, what led the government between Pedrogan and October not to prevent it? Because, we've already said it here, either one of us, in the face of a situation like this, had the most popular, Mrs. Members: stolen house locks to the door. Why didn't you even do that? Why didn't they react? Why didn't you tell me? We can think of several things. Why? Why did you decide to trust luck? Why? Were they left behind the bureaucracy, the Charlie, Delta phases, blocked, without reaction capacity, or there was a financial argument, did there exist such encapsulated austerity? Once again they were all Centeno and that's why they didn't have the means, in this case with a gravity as they had never seen before in the country? This doubt is legitimate and gives you thought. [[CDS-PP applause.]] at this moment, it is no longer thoughtable, it is not acceptable, it is not acceptable that everything is not being done so that in the next year and in the next time of fires do not occur again these tragedies. in this matter, we have a demanding reading, but we have a constructive reading. Now there are signs that we are far behind, there are signs that the government will again be late in what is necessary to do. I give you several examples: first, the SIRESP. Are the failures raised or not in relation to SIRESP? We have news to say that no, nor the lifting of failures is done, nor the network coverage is assured, nor even what served as a scapegoat, the big problem was that the SIRESP was private—as if the tanks were also private, or any other idea of that kind—and becoming public was resolved. Is it public already? Is the contractualization resolved? As much as I know he's not! [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] Second : great solution, the Air Force to coordinate, the Air Force to intervene. Question : When will we have the Air Force? It is because everything indicates that it is not so early, it indicates, above all, that it is certainly not this year and there is not even news of when we will have the Air Force coordinating air resources. As far as air resources are concerned, it is very clear: two invitations to tender. The problem, after two tenders, is not solved, we do not have enough air resources. Mr. Minister says: "We shall have as never before. But that's rhetoric. I want to know how many we're going to have, when we're going to have, and I remember the government, something very simple: it's that the air media contracts expired in 2017. This government and this majority began ruling in 2015. How did they not prepare the contest between 2015 and 2017 at least? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] They were doing the competition, now at the last hour, adjusted the real values; they could not do so and we'll see how they're going to solve this problem. Sad show that « dinner» of the Kamovs. The Kamovs are from the State, the Kamovs certainly have a solution, it is up to the State to ensure their recovery. The image we have, Mr, is: sealed hangar, the Kamovs do not fly. I asked the Minister a few months ago if he was not concerned that no one was flying. Apparently, it wasn't and apparently none of it will fly. Therefore, it is also a lamentable spectacle of the Kamovs. [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] And now, if this involves technology, I also ask you, Mr José Miguel Medeiros, because it is participatory, what you have to tell us about the new law of civil protection. And now I also ask the Minister. The deadline was March. Where's the law? Will you be in the drawer, along with the metadata, along with the critical infrastructures, along with the union law? Is it another law in the drawer? It's just that the information we have is that everything starts and depends on that law. If the new law does not arise the whole device is waiting: there are no operational directives, firefighters don't know exactly what they're going to do, some say that they have doubts about how they're going to participate in the system, we don't even know—now, that's a part—how many cars and autotanks will be operational, the GNR will have a much more important role, the GIPS (Protection and Relief Intervention Group) will have a decisive role, the training is not finished, we don't know whether this training is enough or not, and we don't know whether, when these men leave to integrate the GIPS, it is guaranteed the replacement of the territorial device, i.e., if others will replace them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u4	Mr Telmo Correia, just to warn you that the time to use from now on will be discounted at the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President, it will be little, because three topics remain, yet important. The great problem we have seen, and that all reports point to this point, is the link between the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere), the meteorology, the civil protection device and even the populations that need sufficient warning. I ask, taking advantage of the presence of the government, and that is our intention, what is being done to change and improve this same system? How do we have assurances, first, that the weather warnings are sufficiently attended by the combat device; second, that the populations are warned; third, which does not depend on a fixed timetable—because heat, hot weather, hurricanes can appear more often, we know that too — the system's operationality, depending on the relationship with weather? Finally, on forests, which we will deal with later, of course, that the law on strips was also criticized because it was considered insufficient. We've been following the actions, we've been accompanying you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the 6 minutes and 47 seconds very intense of Mr. Prime Minister in the cleaning. We agree with this idea, we find all this fundamental, but we must also ask, in terms of funds and fund programming, why the programming of funds is essential, as does the report by the Independent Technical Commission, what measures will be taken to protect industrial areas? That is, along with the Mission Unit for Firefighters—and we have already put forward a proposal — an idea, obviously, fundamental. What does the government think about that? I end with a question that is contained in Professor Xavier Viegas' report, which is the question of help. He says that the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) deals with the wounded, firefighters deal with the combat and rescue operations repeatedly failed in October because this mission was not clear and was not organized enough. What is the government doing in this area? We still have this, obviously, in a demanding way. We believe that the government is late, that it is not demonstrating the competence it needs, but we are willing to cooperate, ready to help, being demanding as opposition but also constructive for it to happen — and that I have no doubt — what we all want in this Chamber and in this country, which is that this kind of tragedy, knowing that extreme circumstances can happen, knowing that fires will always exist, do not have the tragic dimension that they had last year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u6	Mr President, I am grateful for your statement and for the references you have made to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. I want to thank you so I know you're feeling it. You have the floor for an intervention Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A very special greeting to Mr President. It is a pleasure to see you there, at the service of the Republic, and in good shape. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we thank the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for the opportunity it has given us to discuss here last week the report of the Independent Technical Commission on forest fires in October, today, even more in detail, we talk about what should mobilize all Portuguese: preparing the future, responding to the dimension of what was a tragedy that marked the country between June and October, building national consensus on the priority of prevention, the priority of preparation for combat, the provision of civil protection with all the means necessary for a national response to forest fires. The Government noted the results of the Independent Technical Commission's reports. It adopted its conclusions, as it had already launched in due course the reform of the forest, as it prioritizes the exploitation of the interior and the promotion of its economic potential. What we are doing, since 21 October, in the framework of the reflection on the conclusions of the first report of the Independent Technical Commission, is, in time, to recover the time of what has never been done, to do everything that the Portuguese oblige us to do, everyone, for an appropriate response to what is a great national challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are doing so since the Extraordinary Council of Ministers of 21 October, in the connection between prevention and combat, in the professionalization of the system, in bringing expertise and knowledge to the system. We are doing so every day, every hour, waiting for everyone's contribution, also waiting for the contribution of the Assembly of the Republic. We have also done so in the specialization phase of the State budget, adopting here the necessary measures which the urgency has determined, creating means, creating instruments of action, creating adequate financial means for the necessary response. We are doing so, of course, mobilising these means right at the beginning of the year. We are doing so in fact in a new defined role for both the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANCC ) and the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF ). We are doing so by creating the mission structure that anticipates AGIF (Agency for Integrated Management of Rural Fires) as a structure of technical support and strategic coordination of the fight against rural fires. We are doing so, as you have well acknowledged, in a new strengthened role of the Republican National Guard, both in raising awareness and in fighting. We are doing it in the new role of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u8	You didn't do anything! You didn't do anything! It's just blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u9	We are doing so, already adopting, for the first time, a unique operational directive that has never existed but that already exists and is published since March 1,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... adopting in time a system of operation management that incorporates the link between command at national, regional and local level, in dialogue with the League of Portuguese Bombers, in dialogue with all institutions in the sector. The CDS is distracted. He left yesterday in the Diário da República. We do so by preparing the new national operational directive and the new financial directive, in dialogue with the Portuguese Bombers League, which will be concluded in the next two weeks at the National Civil Protection Commission. But we are doing so, first of all, putting the absolute priority in prevention, and this is a great victory for the Portuguese. What happened to prevention this winter was, as Mr President of the Republic said, more than last year than three or five years ago, I would say more than ever in our democracy. Prevention was the priority of this winter. This is a victory of the Portuguese, this is a victory of the authorities, of the owners, of all those who mobilized for this great national effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in cleaning up the forest, welcome Dr. Assumption Crystals! I enjoyed seeing Mr Pedro Soares, President of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing in the Gerês, as I liked to see all the Members of Parliament and all the Members of Parliament. Members who have mobilized themselves in this great national effort. The projects Safe Villages and Safe Persons, response projects that, next Monday, close to the centre so martyred last year, in Ansion, will be launched in partnership with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANF ). We first had the time of cleaning, the time of prevention; now we have the preparation for response to difficult times and we are preparing the time of combat, in a system of warnings involving social communication, involving communication operators, allowing, by SMS (short message service), to be able to notify citizens by means of direct warning. But also mobilising means. If prevention is essential, the means are essential here and for that we must be ready to, when it is necessary to combat, do so at the right time. We'll have the highest level of professionalization of our volunteer firefighter bodies that never existed. We will have 79 new firefighters' professional teams by summer, which will allow us to increase to 1300 professional firefighters supported by the State, and we will have, by the end of the year, about 300 professional firefighter teams at national level.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u10	Come out at 5:00 p.m. and don't work on the weekend!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u11	We will have the GIPS throughout the country, throughout the continental territory and also in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, making initial attack and expanding attack. We have now, as a matter of urgency, awarded about 130 light and heavy vehicles for this fight. We will have SEPNA (Environment and Nature Protection Service) with enhanced means. We will have 500 more elements in the GIPS, with the safeguarded territorial body. We did not wait for the summer, it was in February, a month and a half after the entry into force of the State Budget, that 600 women and men entered formation at the Guard School in Portalegre, so that the territorial bodies are not weakened here, because this response has to be given. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where the right would like to extinguish the Forest Guard, fulfilling the mandate of the Assembly, the Florist Guards will be strengthened, there are 200 more elements for the Forest Guard,... [[PS Applause]] ... plus 500 forest slags in connection with the authorities, in conjunction with the CIM(intermunicipal communities). in the air, the difference is that the debate has a wrong subject. It is that the CDS did not learn that last year, the fire season ended because the biggest tragedy was in June and October and, therefore, either the operating system or the national directive end the phases. There is flexible management of means involving air resources — helicopters, planes — which, adjusted to the system, will be in their base structure for the first time, available all year for combat, for response to populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u12	A lot of talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u13	In addition, the work with the Air Force is completed which will allow a response with the allocation of own resources, recovering a response from the State that does not make it dependent on what is the uncertainty of the relationship with private agents. As for communications, in addition to the system of warnings already mentioned, what is changing the country is that mobile units are acquired, electricity redundancy will have 18 redundancy generators and we will have 451 antennas working. It is this dimension that brings knowledge to the system that changes the response character here, and therefore firefighters will be present in the national civil protection structure, as they will be present in the territorial structures, in direction, in close coordination with territorial commands. We will bring qualified ment in the formation of the GIPS, which will have completed until May, also ensuring that the territorial structures of the Republican National Guard will not be limited.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. The next few seconds will be discounted in your next intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u15	Thank you, Mr President, I will now conclude. Never, more than a decade ago, we had 950 elements of the Republican National Guard in formation at the same time. This is the bet for the difference, it's the bet of who realized that we're doing what we haven't done in decades in terms of prevention. That is an indisputable reality today. We are working on preparations for combat. We understand what happened in 2017 and therefore we draw conclusions, assume responsibilities and look to the future. Portugal is more aware of the risks today. Portugal is more prepared today, today we are mobilizing the means for an answer that prepares for the future. It is around this great national consensus that we should mobilize. There is no worse theme for partisan guerrillas than the safety of Portuguese. Let's work for Portugal's security! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u16	Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, I thank you for your words. Let us now enter the debate period, beginning with requests for clarification addressed to Mr Telmo Correia. There are two entries for this purpose, but I do not know how Mr Telmo Correia wants to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u17	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u18	All right, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr José Miguel Medeiros, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u19	Mr President, first of all, I would also like to associate myself with those who have preceded me in speaking, congratulating Mr President on his speedy return to conduct our work, and wishing him to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, after his initial intervention on behalf of the CDS, came to my mind an old popular aphorism which says that "the worst blind are those who do not want to see". Thus is the CDS, in fact well-accompanied by the PSD, in an unbridled competition to see which of them can go further in the use of the 2017 firearms as a political weapon, in a desperate attempt to oppose the political agenda against the tragedies and dramatic episodes that should be treated seriously and responsibly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS decided to ignore all that is being done by the government, the authorities and the Portuguese in the field of fire prevention and preparedness in 2018. for the last time, we attended a catastrophic discourse of the opposition, which deliberately confuses structural problems, which did not resolve or intend to resolve when it was government, with conjunctural issues that marked the fires of 2017 and which exceeded all limits in terms of violence and dimension. They speak, as if it were nothing of the creation, already in 2018, of 100 new forest-scaling teams, the admission in the GNR of 200 new Florestal guards, of more than 500 men in the GIPS, of the GNR, the creation of 80 new permanent intervention teams in firebomb corporations, corresponding to 400 more professional firefighters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u20	They leave at 5:00 p.m. and don't work on the weekend!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u21	... take full advantage of the fact that two air media competitions have remained deserted, to point their finger to the government and say that they have failed in the contract, as if it were the result of deliberate action. It would be good if the CDS could explain which side it is: if on the side of the public interest and the Government, which launches serious public tenders, if on the side of the interests of the undertakings, which, in a carteling logic, did not deliberately present the tender or, if they did so, presented exorbitant prices, despite the burden books having an increase of 25 % in relation to the previous orders issued by the VV Government. Ex.. But neither do you say, and yet it was during your government that the Air Force (EMA) Company was extinguished from the state, and now also civil governments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u22	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u23	With great pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u24	... without having at least had all the care to caution alternative procedures and mechanisms. Finally, we are faced with a situation in which it seems that everything serves the opposition to attack this government, even the biggest demagogy, who, if paid, would solve the problem of the deficit. Mr Telmo Correia, don't you think it's time for you and your party to take this matter seriously? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u25	Mr. José Miguel Medeiros, thank you for your words. You now have the floor to request clarification from Mr Telmo Correia, Mr Carlos Matias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, whenever we talk about fires we have to talk about fire and combat, but we also have to talk about the conditions under which the forest was found. Mr Telmo Correia says that we need to look at the past. True, we need to look at the past. And he also says that what was exposed in October is very obvious. It simply did not bring us all the evidence and in order to do so it would have to speak of the forest that was found disordered, with large forest spots of prevalence of eucalyptus and pine, it would have to speak of the political responsibility of the CDS-PP on the forest, such as the fires found and wasted. For years on end, the CDS-PP had political responsibility for the forest. And what did you do? It promoted the culture of the eucalyptus, with a legal regime that further liberalized the planting of the species. What else did you do? He subfinanced the forest slag teams. What did the CDS do? He weakened services like the ICNF. What did you do? There was no role in promoting some good practices and good measures provided for in the system of defense and firefighting. in the design of PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ), what did the CDS do? He favored the great property of Alentejo and underestimated the support that should be given to the small property, because it is there, in the small fragmented property, that the large spots of eucalyptus and pine, which are most exposed to fires. And, for clustering, still in 2015, through Portaria n. 134 / 2015, excluded the risk of fire of the criteria considered and benefited the large owners, to the detriment of the small ones, precisely where the risk is much higher, as, moreover, was dramatically in sight. This is what the CDS did! In addition, already in this Parliament, the CDS-PP did not present any initiatives on its own in relation to the forest package presented by the Government. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS-PP, already in this Legislative Session,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u27	Where have you been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u28	There are limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u29	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u30	There are limits to saying the following: only the Left Block has presented alternative proposals and initiatives to those of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u31	It was nothing like that! That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u32	No more parties here did it! Not even the gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Already in this Legislative Session, in January this year, the CDS-PP voted against a draft resolution, brought here by the Block of the Left, which defended privileged support for the reforestation by small owners, whenever appropriate fire protection measures were adopted. The CDS-PP voted against the draft resolution submitted by the Left Block, in January of this year, in this Legislative Session, to encourage common management through forest intervention zones, ZIF, or other forms of aggregated management. It's with this black curriculum that the CDS comes here talking about fires, but it shouldn't have a face to do. If the CDS wants to talk about the future, the only perspective it brought to the future was protection to industrial areas. If the CDS wants to talk about the future, it should say what it proposes in defense of the aggregated management by small forest owners. If the CDS wants to talk about the future, it should come here to say what it stands for the renewal of the CAP, for the ongoing discussion on the CAP, in order to be restructured the forest. however, about this, the CDS is silent, says nothing! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] He talks about the past but only about what is right for him, he does not talk about the past when he has to assume his political responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The CDS speech is nothing but an inconsequential embrace, without going to the bottom of the problems. But just going to the bottom of the problems—and the CDS doesn't! — only by going to planning and prevention can we mitigate the consequences of the fires which will inevitably come there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u33	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions you have asked and start by answering Mr Matias in reverse order. And then I will answer to you at the beginning — I apologize but it is political — with a question. last week, regarding the report of the Independent Technical Commission, it came to be scheduled that, together with the report, the parties' proposals were discussed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u36	Yes, there were 12, on the same time limit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u37	... relating, in particular, to the matter of combat but also to the matter of forest. The CDS had three proposals to discuss...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u38	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u39	...like the PCP and the PAN. Do you know how many proposals the Left Block had? [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u40	Ball! Zero, sir! Nothing! Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u41	What about the forest package? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u42	On the other hand, the honourable Member is again insisting — we have already known thesis — in nature, in the world, in everything, less in what has happened. In other words, the reports clearly state that the government has failed once, that the government has failed the second time and that the fight has failed sharply. The Left Block said nothing! The Left Block, in this sense, is helpful, exactly the same Left Block that, in the past and in the previous legislature, about an outbreak of influenza that it was, spoke of crimes and hands full of blood.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u43	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u44	That's it: a subservient, servant left block, apologizing everything that goes wrong in the government area. We understand that, sir! [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have discussed all the issues: the forest planning, the errors of the country, what needs to be improved, what needs to be changed, but also the fight, because we know that much of what has failed was the fight, much of what has failed was the fighting device. And we know that, for example, the issue of air resources is essential. In fact, I begin to reply to Mr José Miguel Medeiros, because, as in any small fire, in my house, in your or wherever you are—we all know that— as long as the flames are small it is possible to extinguish them. That's why air resources are fundamental, so it's serious not to have the device,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u45	But who told you you didn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u46	... that is why it is serious that, until now, after everything that happened, after failing in Pedrogon, after failing in October, that problem is not solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u47	I'd like to see you criticize the cartel!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u48	Mr President, you are so concerned about disguise everything that, as you like aphorisms and addressed me as saying that "the worst blind is the one you don't want to see", I say to you: I think it is often easier to catch a liar than a lame, because you hide and commit everything you can. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] Mr. Secretary of State, I did not involve the country, I did not involve the Government and Civil Protection in a public discussion about who was a liar, was the former Secretary of State and a commander appointed by you. So I use this expression and not for any other reason, because it is necessary to know who says and who does not tell the truth in these matters. The honourable Member asks whether we are on the Government's side and I say no, we are not on the Government's side. If we had been on the government's side in relation to Pedrogon, we had failed; if we had been on the government's side between Pedrogan and October, we had failed. We're not on the government's side! We are in Parliament, elected, on the side of the country! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u49	The formulation of requests for clarification to the Government is now followed, specifically to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u50	Mr President, I will respond to a first group of three and then to two groups of four. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u51	Of course, Minister. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Internal Administration, in my initial speech, had made a series of reflections on what seems to be delayed. The Minister comes here with the idea that everything is developing, everything is going on, he said, even on the other day, in relation to the competition for air resources, that we would have air resources as never before, but of rhetoric we are all a little tired, we want concrete facts, Mr Minister. And, in our perspective, obviously, it is serious that, having you, Ex., launched on the hour a first contest that remained deserted...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u53	Is that a cartel? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u54	The cartel was anterior, the cartel has been coming since 2015 when you began to rule. They should have planned this before, they should have made the contest before, they should have prepared it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u55	But I didn't hear him criticize!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u56	Mr. Minister came to the competition at the end of the hour and he couldn't! How many air resources do you have now, Minister? Do you have 22 for the 50 you need? Oh, my God! I think it is about this, but Mr Minister, please tell me, more in detail, what the situation is. Obviously, this, from our point of view, is serious, it is serious, and so I ask you how it will solve this problem. I mean, what is Mr. Minister going to do now? Are you going to make a direct adjustment? Are you going to look for the means you haven't found here abroad, fighting the cartel Mr. José Miguel Medeiros speaks of? And hiring what value, abroad, what didn't you get here? The question is concrete, it is addressed and it is obvious, Minister. I have also spoken recently, but the Minister has not answered, what was the point of the situation with regard to SIRESP? Is the lifting of all failures made? Is the contract already made? Is it permanent, public? Does the State already have the full direction in the SIRESP right now? He said recently and I also asked how many cars were available. On the other day, Mr Minister announced some, what I am asking is whether they will be available by this time, if they have to be prepared, if they have to be adapted. When will these cars be available? How many autotanks are available and how many firefighting cars are available? On the other hand, Mr Minister, it seems to me to be confirmed that, in relation to the question of the Air Force, we will not have it this year. When can we have the Air Force? [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] Then I confess that I did not fully understand your answer. Mr President, there is already an operational directive which aims precisely at professionalization. Let's see about the firemen's involvement in that. I also asked you whether or not you agree with this mission unit for a more in-depth study proposed by the Independent Technical Commission, as well as on the question of relief, and I ask you once again about the new law. It is because either I did not fully understand the answer or the law was announced by the Minister for March, but so far it has not yet appeared. Mr. Minister, we obviously want everything to go well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u57	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u58	...we want to trust that things will go well, but, frankly, the idea that we have is that we are late, that the answer is slow and that Mr. Minister is announcing things that are not being accomplished in due time. Therefore, whether the law, whether the airway, whether the SIRESP, or the car, all of this is relatively late. In fact, I have even made the parallel in other matters which Mr Minister has held in hand for months and on which he does not leave the laws either. I gave him the example of the metadata, but he could give many others. So this is our question, this is our requirement. It may be more or less pleasant for the Government or for the Members. Members of the coalition, but we will all understand that this is our obligation as a party to the opposition and that this is the useful effect that the opposition can have: that of being demanding, that of being rigorous, that of wanting and demanding that things are resolved and, above all, that of looking at the country and thinking that what happened, as it is obvious, cannot be repeated again. Bad outside, Mr Minister, that, after Pedrogon and after October, everything that is necessary was not being done. The problem is that it is being done slowly, with failures, without concrete answers. These are the answers we demand here and now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u59	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u60	Mr President, first of all, and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to wish you the improvements, hoping you are already in perfect health conditions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to this exchange of accusations and galhardets and I think that the people out there and also the firefighters who are watching this debate today want to know, indeed, what is going to happen. No more charges! I will not waste time saying that the government changed the civil protection structures to months of the time of fires, nor did it fail in Pedrogan and then in October. [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] I can't waste time with that! Do you know why, Minister? Because just walk on the ground and talk to the firefighters, talk to the Special Fire Force (FEB ), talk to the military, talk to the Civil Protection, to understand what is happening. There are many streams, there are more PowerPoint presentations, there are more and more studies and strategies,... [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] ...but if Mr. José Miguel Medeiros let me finish, I wonder what, in fact, is on the ground. Because today, less than two months from the fire season,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u61	After all, is there a time of fire or is there a time of fire? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u62	...the firefighters, the district commanders, still don't know how many vehicles, how many firefighting teams, how many logistics teams, how many extended assault groups there will be, what will be done to FEB. Corporations don't know what ANPC wants from them. They know nothing, they are in the dark, because the government concentrates only on propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u63	They won't know today either!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u64	In fact, Mr Minister, I have already asked you this question in writing more than once. Corporations are waiting, municipal chambers want to close their municipal plans, and they don't even know what means their firefighters count or stop counting. And, Mr Minister, the solution is not the EIPs (permanent intervention teams) because the EIPs work until 5 p.m. and do not work at the weekend. The government has waged to reinforce the extended attack, the government has put everything in GIPS, GNR, which does not even know whether they will be formed in time or whether they will have the vehicles ready in time. The government has broken everything else. The Special Fire Force was removed from the helicopters. Who's gonna take care of them? Ah! The truth is, we don't even have helicopters yet! What will the Special Fire Force do? You're going to have a professional status, aren't you? What mission is expected of her? If the GIPS, GNR, fails, why can't you be ready, where will the Minister reinforce the extended attack? It is that your strategy is based all in the GNR, in good time and perhaps perhaps in the military. You know that more: 90% of the firefighting is done by firefighters, whom Mr. Minister ignores, or accuses, or holds them responsible. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] Mr Minister, we want to know what is being done concrete so that we can assure people that this year will not be the same as last year, because the government did not learn from last year's fires in Pedrogão and it does not seem that it did not learn from the fires of October. What we want to know in particular is what new ways firemen will have to operate on the ground, because the cars that Mr. Minister announced were hired last year under the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) and it is not worth multiplying the means that Mr. Minister announced, because we know the reality. The Minister announced a new single directive as if it were a great novelty, as if it were to allocate and define the means that will be on the ground. It's not! What it does is just to put together several directives that existed, still saying nothing, because those on the ground don't know how to prepare the fire season, district commanders don't know what means they have, nor do they know what ceilings they will have to spend on their districts. I ask you another question, Minister : will you send the district group commanders to the field, that your government, despite being planned and already appointed, has left it closed in Carnaxide, failing this intermediate coordination structure, which the two reports point to as a great fragility in last year's fires?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u65	Did you guys extinguish the civil governments and now you're playing with this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u66	Is that the decision you're going to make? You're gonna put them on the ground? Mr Minister, I ask again: what are you going to do about training? Were those commands that were accused of lack of training, lack of quality, however, trained to correct these weaknesses? Mr Minister, I would like to ask you another question, not to say that it is politics and political use.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u67	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u68	The government knows, we all know that one of the weaknesses is the lack of operational and technological means to support the decision-making of the commands. Nowadays, firefighters still work with paper topographical cards, they do not have instruments for georeference of the media on the ground. What did the government do, however, knowing that the military have these instruments and that there are authorities in this country that also have them, but to whom firefighters and civil protection do not have access? Mr Minister, in relation to all the criticisms that have been pointed out as being the responsibility of the Government, very little has been done. It is true that much is planned, much is written in PowerPoint presentations and flowcharts, but the truth is that district commands, firefighter commanders, the autarchs are getting more and more concerned, because it seems that this year we are even more late than last year. And everything seems to be nothing more than propaganda, advertisements and much rhetoric. [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] It is that, in fact, on the ground, nothing is changing and it seems that everything is worse than it was last year. And, once again, Minister, it is the responsibility of the Government! I end by reminding this House: many have tried to accuse the PSD of taking advantage of the mourning to do demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u69	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u70	The PSD took the example of Pedrogon, took advantage of the mourning to warn this government to correct what was wrong. This government took advantage of people's mourning to try to hide their responsibilities with regard to the tragedy that happened last summer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u71	That's unacceptable! The gentlemen have spoken in suicide!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u72	Mr President, thank you for your words. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister Eduardo Cabrito, the topic of fires requires that the debate on measures to prevent and combat this scourge take place in a holistic perspective, more consistent with the nature and dimension of the problem and that it should take into account the legacy that has been passed by the previous Government : forest disorder; the absence of forest management and its scale; rural depopulation; landscape; the failure of the agrosilvipastor model and climate change, i.e. all issues and challenges that the PSD and CDS government have failed to solve, or even mitigate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All this because the Minister of Care of the time and now Mrs Assumption Cristas was fully devoted to the redeeming effect of eucalyptus planting and its miraculous potential on the landscape, territory and rural communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u74	There's no patience!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u75	Therefore, what we must also debate in this inquiry to the Government today is whether the country, with its forest potential, has the ability to manage, making use of strategic thinking, learning from mistakes, honoring the memory of the victims of 2017, taking into account the recommendations of the ITC, confronting and solving the structural problems and also improving the systems and devices that contribute to the preservation and defense of an economic, social and environmental asset that gives by the name of forest. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is being asked today and that it is important to answer all Portuguese is the following: Is Portugal better prepared to deal with the fires this year? [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] In our understanding, yes. A 'yes' without any hesitation. Yes, because, of course, prevention and combat strategies are more integrated and committed than ever. Who prevents combat, who fights prevents it too. Yes, because the ICNF and the ANPC will have at their disposal a stock exchange of 30 experts, who will contribute with their knowledge to solving the most complex situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u76	And will the experts turn off the fires? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u77	Yeah, because we're gonna have more air resources. Yes, because we will have more logistical and human resources at the disposal of GIPS, SEPNA, Florestal Guards, but also ANPC, our fire bodies and the Armed Forces. Yes, because we're going to have more permanent intervention teams, more forest skiers and more investment in SIRESP. Yes, because people and authorities are successfully promoting fuel management actions and more controlled fire actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u78	Fire under control at this time? Oh, my God! Let's go and make a controlled fire. Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u79	Yes, because the territory and populations will be better prepared and more resilient with the Safe Persons and Safe Villages programs and with the implementation of an automatic network of alerts and alerts. Mr Minister, do we know that it has not been easy to change the risk prevention and management model, to implement an integrated rural fire management system, to mount the plane while it is flying, but are we or are we not in better position to face this emergency situation that the Portuguese definitely want to see resolved? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u80	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Members who have asked questions and who allow me to make sense of this debate, because the same cannot be about ghosts, nor about the aspiration of those who have taken more than two years to invoke the devil and who are disappointed by him not coming.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u82	O Minister, answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u83	We face real problems with effective answers. I could tell you, sirs. Telmo Correia, Duarte Marques and Francisco Rocha, who, in view of the size of the problem, Portugal is more prepared than ever to face it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are more prepared because, contrary to what happened, prevention was the priority of this winter. Finally! Only CDS and PSD are still talking during firetime. It's over! Security is a priority all year round! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr Duarte Marques, I know you live with the excitement of who was a supporter of a government that banned legionella.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u84	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u85	We will not ban fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are therefore prepared to respond properly and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u86	Be serious! Answer the questions, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u87	Therefore, Mr, we are not talking about flowcharts ; we are talking about your disregard for what is happening in the country, your disregard for the effort of the Portuguese over these months of 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u88	Answer the questions, Minister. At least one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u89	We're talking, ladies. Members, of means as never existed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u90	Say which one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u91	... that is, of helicopters and heavy planes, available all year round and not only on your subject. You are the ones who are caught the fire season, we are safe all year round! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u92	Answer me, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u93	Mr. Member, I understand your despair,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u94	People are desperate! Have shame! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u95	...but I have the tranquillity of those who respect those who throughout the country work for a safer Portugal. The firemen who with us, through their League, contributed, first, to the construction of the single operational directive...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u96	It was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u97	No, Mr Telmo Correia, it never existed! This directive, which brings together the interventions, as the Independent Technical Commission said, of all areas, in particular those of the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Internal Administration. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] As far as the media are concerned, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for years have weakened the Republican National Guard, but at present there are 950 men in training, 600 of whom to respond to the challenge of forest fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Members are 600 in training in Portalegre and those for GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ) are in training in Figueira da Foz. They are not flowcharts, they are women and men who will fight for your safety and who deserve your respect! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Members with regard to SIRESP, we have the survey which has not been made before and which points to 9000 hours of network availability in 2017, that we will, without demagogy, provide the necessary responsibilities. But we don't wait for uprisings. We're not talking about flowcharts. I invite you to go see the 451 antennas that are being installed. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] I invite you to go see the mobile units that have been acquired. And I will invite you to go, too, at the end of May, because you are not ready yet, to see the units of electric redundancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u98	There's nothing ready!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u99	With regard to the Special Fire Force, Mr. Members are the representatives of whom they have mistreated those who have served the State and we are the government that is solving the problem of precariousness and those who are part of that Force. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These, like the telecommunications technicians of district commands, are not flowcharts, are 600 men and women who have been abandoned by your government and who are, in the process of regulating precariousness, to be accompanied by the Government which has the majority support of this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u100	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u101	I already know that I haven't read the single operating directive, I already know that I have ignored the operating management system and I already know that I don't know what work we're doing with the firefighters in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u102	"We are"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u103	...to, until day 15, close the process, listening to them. We will not decide to listen to anyone, as you were used to. We will decide in part on the new national operational directive and the new financial directive that creates operational, technical and financial conditions for this noble tradition of firefighters...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u104	That has nothing to do with the means!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u105	... if it extends, deepens to the Portuguese security service and not to its despair. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u106	That's desperate, Minister! Don't answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start a second round of questions to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, it is necessary, in fact, a great lack of consistency and seriousness for Mr Telmo Correia to come here talking about air resources when the PSD/CDS government has failed to ensure the continuity of public management of these means...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u109	What public management? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u110	... and opted for the extinction of the public airline company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u111	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u112	...in fact, in a strategy that is already usual on the right, which is to disinvest to then privatize. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] In any case, since we are in this situation, with this reality, I would like to ask the Minister about the public invitation to tender which has been launched to rent 50 air vehicles. We know that these competitions have failed, have not succeeded, and therefore the hiring of these air resources will be delayed. I therefore ask how it is assured that we will have sufficient air capacity and means to combat fires next summer and, now, with what air resources, exactly, Portugal can count on. I would also like the Minister to answer a question which has already been raised several times, which has to do with the Kamovs, which are part of the State and which, apparently, are all stopped. Never worked simultaneously, but in any case, the news now indicates that they are completely stopped. How are we going to solve this, and what is the situation on this issue? As far as air resources are concerned, I would also like to see whether the transition from management of these resources to the Armed Forces is confirmed. If so, how will this work and how will the coordination of these means be done in the theatres of operations?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u113	No need! They don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u114	Another issue has to do with SIRESP. We now know that SIRESP failed again in the October fires. In fact, perhaps, it would be better to ask when the SIRESP does not fail, because it has failed since the beginning, constantly—there are data and information about these failures since the beginning, for several years. We have already had a number of debates on this and at that time the Government announced the lifting of communication failures to clear up responsibilities and to implement fines. I ask you, Minister, whether this survey has already been made — it was supposed to be made by the end of 2017 — whether these commitments have already been fulfilled or whether we are still in the field of intentions. Finally, I would like to ask a question which concerns the fact that, in order to combat fires effectively, it is necessary to guarantee the working conditions for men and women who are engaged in this fight on the ground. What I want to know is the extent to which the government's commitment has been made for several times since the beginning of this legislature, and which has been constantly postponed, to the creation of the unique career of the professional firefighters of the local administration. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u115	Mr. Jorge Machado also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u116	Mr President, Mr Minister, I am now taking advantage of complimenting the firemen here. Mr Minister, I begin with a previous question which must be put before the questions themselves. The national fire control and forest protection strategy has three pillars: one is structural prevention, the second is operational prevention and the third is fire control. The CDS only talks about combat because it has responsibilities on the first and second pillars. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It has responsibilities to degrade combat conditions and to allow the forest to reach the state it has reached. Emblematic measures such as the liberalisation of eucalyptus, the use of monoculture to favour large economic groups, the de-investment or cuts in forest investment, the attack on prevention structures created a genuine barrel of powder ready to explode, due to the political responsibility of the CDS-PP. however, now, they only talk about fighting. Having said this, we have concerns about the first pillar, on which my comrade John Dias will make an intervention; on the second pillar, of operational prevention, particularly on the speed of recruitment of forest guards; and on the third pillar, Minister, on which we will also not fail to address very specific issues. Regarding the change of the concept model of civil protection, a new model is on the table that is being discussed at the closed door, without the participants being aware of this same conceptual change and, above all, at a very near point of critical height of fires. Mr Minister, it is not good to discuss a model amendment of the ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ) without involvement of stakeholders and probably this will not be the best time of year to discuss this same model. So I ask: when is the amendment of the Organic Law of ANPC foreseen? As regards the resources themselves, we reiterate the need to provide all civil protection agents with the means necessary for the missions assigned to them and the need to strengthen the financing of firefighters. There are delays in the operational directive and in the financial directive which Mr Minister has already referred to, but also the single directive on prevention and combat had a set of sectoral directives as a condition. I ask the Minister whether the sectoral directives on the single directive are planned and for when.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u118	There is a lack of permanent intervention teams. The government's perspective of creating only a permanent intervention team by council can make sense in some municipalities, but in others, with five or six fire companies, it does not. There are identified inadequacies. On the cars, Mr. Minister recently announced the purchase of 78 cars for fire companies. It is, of course, a positive aspect, which we welcome, but it is not enough to sin.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u119	They're last year! They're Community funds!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u120	It is necessary not only this reinforcement, but also a program to modernise the cars and speed up the maintenance, repair and replacement of the cars involved in combat with letters of comfort and guarantees from the State so that such maintenance and replacements can be made as soon as possible. Finally, 28 helicopters are still missing for air resources to complete the necessary device. The State is of course - and it has become clear in this debate - in a very difficult position from a negotiating point of view. And we still have the problem of the Kamovs. It should be noted that between 2005 and 2007 the Government initiated a process of acquisition of air resources. Instead of improving this option, the PSD/CDS-PP government in 2011 opted for the privatization of the media, thus opening up the doors to private businesses and leaving the state hostage to the privates holding air resources. Since the extinction of EMA, of the six Kamovs we have had at most three operations and much of the time we had only one or two. at this time, we have no operational Kamov and the state has no means to fly them, it has no capacity to reverse the situation. It should be noted that these helicopters are fundamental in the fight against fires. They have great autonomy, great capacity from the point of view of water transport and ease of supply, which makes these means very important in combating fires. Its non-use is unacceptable. The situation of the air forces and the Kamovs we witnessed, and we can even add the SIRESP, proves that the State cannot stand hostage to the private. We cannot allow private businesses to override the interest of the State. There is an imperative need for the State to acquire means and to have the capacity to maintain and operate. The question I am asking is: what are you going to do about this, Minister? PSD and CDS-PP, as well as previous PS governments, said that there was more state and, at the expense of this idea, they dismantled the State's capacity in this field. Today, we are paying very much for this option. Minister, what are we going to do to reverse this situation once and for all? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u121	Also to ask for clarification, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u122	Mr President, Minister, of the analysis that we are doing, and in view of what we have been seeing, it seems to us that it would be important in advance to consider the need to reformulate the concept of fire season. in fact, forest fires occur throughout the year, but naturally more frequently in the summer months. It is a fact that climate change has had significant effects, both at the level of severity and at the level of regular fires. in this table, The Greens consider that the preparation of the so-called fire season should be done in the previous year and based on continuous prevention processes, but also planning. For example, we are talking about the special fire fighting device. In our view, this device should be extended to every month of the year and, of course, reinforced in the days when weather alerts provide for a high risk of forest fire. We believe that this strengthening must be in operational terms, therefore, both in human resources, cars and equipment, and also in terms of air resources. in this regard, we must register with pleasure the opening up of the Government to walk in this direction. As in the past, and above all with the PSD/CDS government, the truth is that the procedures for awarding these means are always accompanied by great controversy. These are the tendering procedures, but also the way in which these means are managed. A short time ago, the Greens questioned the Ministry of Health regarding the medical emergency helitransport service of INEM ( National Institute for Medical Emergency ) and we heard in response that air resources affected by this service, but belonging to ANPC, when on missions to combat forest fires are absolutely unavailable for INEM. This seems to us to be totally incomprehensible. But, Mr Minister, even on air media, there are several reports that tell us about their inoperability. It happens that, after a brief research on the ANPC website, we encountered, for example, about 90 occurrences of rural fires, only on February 20 of this year. Now, being one month with mild temperatures, the Greens cannot fail to express their concern about the response that civil protection is being able to cope with this significant number of occurrences. And on this matter, there is much to be explained. How is it explained, for example, that one of the Kamov helicopters — which belonged at the time to the Air Force, extinct, as it is known by the previous Government — suffered a fall during the fight against a forest fire in Ourem, ran in 2012, and, six years after this accident, the aircraft still remained unoperational? Minister, how do you explain this? Then, Mr Minister, recently, the news coming to the public by the media realizes that three Kamovs are stopped, two for reasons of maintenance and the third, affected by the service of INEM, due to mechanical inconformity. We also know that the company that operates helicopters uses the subcontracting of other companies to maintain these helicopters, but we also know that there are contractual differences between these companies that may call into question the operationality of the Kamovs. For this reason, the Greens consider it most important to clarify the situation of air resources at the service of civil protection missions not only by approaching the time that usually requires greater commitment and greater use of these means but also by the need to know how many means are operational and whether or not they are sufficient to ensure the safety of people and goods. On this point, Minister, it seems to us that it would be important for the Government to confirm to us today whether the Kamov fleet is in fact fully stopped and, if it is not, how many Kamov are operating today. And since the contract with the company that operates the Kamov will end in 2019, I think it would also be important to know, considering the history and what happened, whether the government thinks or does not renew the contract with that company. Even to finish, I wanted to leave you a question that has to do with a matter that is also important, but which was curiously not brought here either by the PSD or the CDS and that has to do with the extinction of the Air Traffic Company, which was led by the previous government, by the PSD/CDS government. The question is whether the Government considers the extinction of EMA to be a good business for the State, since it has come to facilitate the fight and management of air resources, or whether on the contrary it was a good business only for the private, which at no time has facilitated the management of air resources in the fight against forest fires. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u123	To ask for clarification, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u124	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, I liked to hear you say that I was discussing without demagogy and that what was at stake were the Portuguese, when, after that, you give us an answer that is as demagogic as you can imagine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u126	He responded to everything, except to the concerns they put to him. He used all strategies and all schemes to not answer the questions that are at stake and that were put to him. Mr President, it is very important that we discuss the device, that we discuss what is being done so that these tragedies do not occur, and that is what we all agree with. The speech of demagogy, the devil, finally, to mention all these things until it hurts you, Minister, when the matter — the lives of the Portuguese people — is so serious, because more than 100 lives have been lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u127	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u128	And that's what you have to move us, get us to work. In addition, in the Government, it is always all right, Minister. Even last March, we had Mr. Prime Minister here saying that, by this summer, we will have more than 700 elements of the Republican National Guard on the ground, to which 200 new forest guards will be joined, etc. etc. etc. And even last week, when we discussed the report from the Independent Technical Commission, it was Mr Minister who came to tell us how good everything is, that the device is good, including that the fight against forest fires in 2018 will be reinforced with more than 240 light and heavy cars—he forgot the details that were those of last year, but we will finally realize that we did not notice. It also reported that 140 cars go to the Protection and Relief Intervention Group ( GIPS ) and to the Nature and Environment Protection Service ( SEPNA) of GNR, while 80 cars are intended for firefighter bodies and the remaining 20 to the Special Fire Force ( FEB ). So it left us very calm, and we, Minister, wanted to believe in you. Just like you made us understand that everything was okay. However, on the same day, we read news from newspapers that did not reassure us anything at all. And here are some of these news from the newspapers, one of which has the title: Government with fewer requirements in the second aircraft competition to combat fires. And why is that? Because the first aircraft rental contest had failed. This is the reality that everyone is worried about, and much. So, on the one hand, we have speech and, on the other, reality. Let us now move on to the situation of the Kamovs, with which everything was also fine. But the next day, what do the news say? That the technicians who were repairing the Kamovs were expelled. Mr Minister, allow me to say this: perhaps for lack of courage to expel diplomats, any technicians who come to deal with helicopters are expelled. It's much easier and makes everyone happy, by the way. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] But this is not the issue that brings us together here. Mr President, let me tell you: in relation to all the announcements you made, at the famous Council of Ministers on 21 October, we are all in agreement, we have never made any criticism. The question is in PowerPoint, in other ads, as my colleague Duarte Marques said very well. in one of these announcements Mr. Minister says: « We have spoken to the firemen, we do not do». Mr Minister, the question must be asked! Are we expecting the next rounds to come? It's just that the fire season is here! It is enough to remind you that the Pedrogão fires took place soon in June, Minister. Finally, because a lie said often cannot be considered true, I must say that, with regard to this matter, the PSD presented in this Chamber, and were discussed here on November 30, the projects of lein. ( a ), 662 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 663 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolutions 1116 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1120 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1122 / XIII ( 3. ( a). This is the truth and, if there is no memory, it is enough to consult the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic to confirm that the PSD has put forward proposals. It happens that they have not been taken into account—unfortunately for all of us in relation to some. It's never worth it if it's PSD, because your intellectual arrogance exceeds everything and it doesn't allow you to see what's needed in the country. [[PS protests.]] Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you the following: when will we have all the means effectively guaranteed? And by what time will we have the so propagated organic law of civil protection, which has come to announce us with a marked deadline? It's the last date was March 31, but we're already in April. By when is that organic law, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u129	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u130	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the Members and the Members. Members who give me the opportunity to clarify, even more in detail, what is being done. Mrs Sandra Cunha, what we are going to do — and that is our absolute priority — is to end this conversation of other times of the fire season. at this time, we are already in a position to award — indeed, we have already awarded in part — whether helicopters or heavy aircraft to be available to the country throughout the year. That is the nature of 18 of the 22 means to which it refers. We are aware, like the others. Members Jorge Machado and José Luís Ferreira also mentioned, of what is a fragility that the right has decided to build in relation to what is the public response, the response of the state. So we will have to find solutions here at two times, as we have always said with serenity, without this agitation of those who have a heavy conscience in this matter. Therefore, the conclusions of the working group on air media management, made between the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Defence, point to the allocation of the State with its own resources to be operated by the Air Force. These own resources will not be available this year, we have always said so. Therefore, we will need to build solutions in a basic contractual model to respond preventively to those who are the risks of this transition time between 2018 and 2019. But we will have more Air Force in the system, either in the size of what preventive intervention is in the detection of risks, through aircraft such as C-295 or P-3, or in the use of GH-101 helicopters in a transport support and evacuation support framework, or in what is the response in the heat-up and risk-checking phase that have survived the most desperate phase of the fires. We will also have, for the first time, by giving a direct response to the report of the Independent Technical Commission, aircraft for coordinating the operation of air resources. I would also like to tell you with all honesty about the operation of the Kamovs, which is fundamental in this matter is the defense of the public interest and not the excitement in the propagation of what is a private view of this matter. The company responsible for maintaining the Kamov is currently notified for payment of default penalties in 2017 and 2018 which rise to close to EUR 4 million — that is the size of the contractual non-compliance that has been repeatedly assumed. And last day on 29, the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ) informed the company concerned that it was not in a position to fulfil its contractual obligations regarding the maintenance of these aircraft. It is in this framework that we are considering all solutions, in the defence of what is the public interest, in respect of the rigor and the safeguard of what is the defence of the general interest, and not the concern to give any priority to matters of a private nature. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I invite you, with great pleasure, indeed, to take her to the Figueira da Foz or the Portalegre so that you can see the women and men who are already being trained, is not PowerPoint, as your partner on the side says there! [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira, what happened, in fact, was that we heard and all involved in this debate. And, therefore, the single operational directive was involved and discussed. He has benefited from the contribution of the Portuguese Bombers League and already from the contribution of the mission structure, but in fact he has not benefited from yours, because they have not made any valid contribution to this debate. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] The operating management system (SGO), also published, also responds to this need.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u131	Answer the questions! Don't run away from the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u132	As regards the means, we will have all those who existed, plus what is, according to the State budget, against which you voted, the possibility of, against your vote, having 96 light cars, already awarded, and 20 heavy cars for GIPS, 22 more cars, also awarded, for the Special Fire Force, and we have strengthened the mechanisms to support the maintenance and replacement of volunteer firefighters' equipment. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] That's why, sirs. Members, in fact, the Special Fire Force, abandoned by you, will have its regularized situation in connection with the regularization of public administration deficiencies. We will be here to defend the Portuguese, despite your screaming and your despair. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u133	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u134	We moved on to another round of questions. To that end, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is no longer just the CDS that I spoke in this debate, not wanting to talk about forest, because the PSD did exactly the same. And Mr Duarte Marques already had the temporary distance from the previous government in order to be able to demarcate the forest policy of the CDS, but he did not want to do so, which means that he agrees with the policy of eucalyptization of this country, which is at the root of the dramatic situation we have experienced in our country in relation to the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u137	Take it easy! Looks like a government man!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u138	Look, they're right there on the bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u139	But after all, they're really from the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an essential issue that needs to be taken into account in this debate. [[PSD protests.]] Your arguments are not for everything! We must respect those involved in the civil protection system, in the fight against fires, and therefore we cannot throw on these people, this system, all responsibility for the security of the forest. This is an injustice that is being done with these men and women who, in many cases, have already given their lives for our safety. Mr Telmo Correia, you spoke, spoke, spoke, but on forests said nothing, absolutely nothing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u141	I said, I said! You didn't hear, but I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u142	... which, in a way, is consistent with its total absence of proposals for forest reform! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u143	You didn't bring anything! The Block did not present anything, we presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u144	It is consistent with that zero in forest reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u145	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u146	You could be a little more autonomous! This is too much, it goes beyond reasonable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u147	In other words, for the CDS, the forest is summed up in a civil protection issue—in fact, the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC ) is the first to know that this is not true. And, in this speech on the right, we'd like to know where the small producers are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Where is the forest planning, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Where is the management of the forest, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Where are the forest ecosystems, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They don't stay anywhere! They don't exist for the gentlemen! Speaking of forest throwing responsibility for the civil protection system, and nothing more, is a mistake, it is an injustice and does not solve any problem of the forest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u148	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u149	Because, in fact, this is what concerns us, the CDS will have to pronounce itself on the proposals of the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u150	Don't doubt it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u151	... following the report of the Independent Technical Commission, which will come to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u152	They'll have to come! There for the summer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u153	When it's time for that and not when you want CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u154	It's day 13!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u155	And you're going to have to vote on those proposals. Mrs. Ministers in particular, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, in fact, we need to deal with the forest and we want to ask you two questions. First question: when can forest management units ( UGF ), i.e. aggregate forest management, have a financial support framework that allows them to arise and work for forest management and management? Second question: what policy will the Portuguese Government defend in the European Union ( EU ) in the process of revising the CAP ( common agricultural policy), which has, in fact, essential elements of support for forest and forest mini-funding?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u156	He's already running!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u157	These are essential issues, looking to the future, and fundamental so that the forest can have another way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u158	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u159	I will now finish, Mr President. I'm asking these questions why? Because we do not align ourselves with this Manichaean debate, who supports or does not support the government. Don't! What we want to know is who changes the forest and who wants it to continue in the forest. This is the debate that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u160	That's what makes it possible to run away from responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want to know is who wants to continue feeding the cellulose line to the detriment of small forest producers and the environmental sustainability of the forest. [[Congrats from the BE and the P.S. Member José Miguel Medeiros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u162	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u163	Mr President, Minister, when we perform functions in an area of as much responsibility as that of the Internal Administration, we must pay for our interventions by raising and being prudent. There is nothing I can do about lifting, and I think that I can help Mr. Minister in the matter of prudence. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr President, in many respects, he said that they were not correct and made references which are not accurate. I'm going to give a very concrete example, which has to do with the forest guards. The Minister said here that the right would want to end the forest guards and, therefore, let's go to the rigour of the statements. I will ask the Minister if he knows Decree-Law No 22 / 2006. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Decree-Law No 22 / 2006, which Mr. Minister knows but which the generality of persons may not know, says the following in Article 5. o : « It is extinct (...) the National Body of the Forest Guard (... ) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u164	It was integrated into the GNR!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u165	I repeat : « It is extinct (...) the National Body of the Forest Guard (... ) », and, further forward, we have « Viewed and approved in Council of Ministers(... ) », signed by « José Socrates Carvalho Pinto de Sousa — António Luís Santos Costa — (...) », I assume you know! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Who extinguished the National Forest Guard Corps was a government supported by the Socialist Party, in which the current Prime Minister was Minister of Internal Administration. I will also read to him another decree-law, Decree-Law No. 247/2015, which restores the lifeguard career. It restores the multi-categorial lifeguard career and returns the categories, in descending order of hierarchy, of main forest master, forest master and flower keeper. Do you know who signs? Pedro Passos Coelho and Paulo Sacadura Cabral Costa Portas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u166	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u167	Who extinguished the lifeguard career was a government supported by the Socialist Party, with António Costa, who restored the lifeguard career in Portugal was a government supported by the PSD and the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u168	You didn't want to go back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u169	He's here, in the decree!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u170	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs is already disturbed. If you do not believe in the CDS, who says it is a communiqué with the title SEPNA / GNR Florestal Guards conquer status and wage increase. « SEPNA / GNR Florestal Guards begin to have a professional status that restores to (...) career (guard-florestal), withdrawn in 2006 by the PS / Socrates Government (...) and assigns an average wage valuation..." — repeat, wage valuation! — «... of 5, 2 %(... ) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u171	They were Florestal Guards!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u172	This communiqué is 2015, not from the Government, is from the CGTP, the National Federation of the Workers'Union in Public and Social Functions. After all, who ended up with the lifeguard career and who put it back? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u173	We put it back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u174	It was us! We are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u175	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u176	Mr President, we have said and reaffirmed that only cleaning and weekend media campaigns do not arrive to prevent fires, being urgent policies that combat depopulation, the destruction of agriculture and the rural world and reduce regional asymmetries, among many others. These are the major prevention measures that should be taken and are fundamental measures that need to be considered, along with other more immediate measures. Prevention is indeed very important, Minister, it is so important that it can be said that only because of shame is that the CDS comes to talk about this issue. [[CDS-PP protests.]] When it came down to the structures of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests) and diverted the money from the forests to the large agribusiness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u178	Well, no more! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u179	... the government, in order to suggest that it did everything it had to do, hid behind the legislation made in a hurry and the constant announcements of millions, but we want answers as to the concrete measures, which are the responsibility of the government and which have to be implemented. Mr Minister, much has been said today about the third pillar. The first and second pillars, which also have to do with prevention, are fundamental. Reporting to Law No 76 / 2017, where the latest changes are made to the National Forest Defense System against Fires, in Article 12. the Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, which concerns forest fire defense networks ( RFFCI), the ICNF is responsible for monitoring the development and updating of these networks. Question : What is the information of the ICNF on this monitoring? in the same article it can read: « The collection, registration and updating of the RFICI database shall be carried out by local authorities by means of protocol and procedure disclosed in the technical standard of the ICNF (...) ». What is the situation of this database? in Article 13. this Decree-Law says that « The ICNF, IP, has the responsibility to develop the equalization instruments necessary for the installation of the primary network. », from fuel management bands, and also the government is responsible for defining mechanisms for the application of instruments, ensuring compensation to the affected owners. What has the government already done to compensate owners in case of proven and insurmountable loss of income? This Act also establishes that primary fuel management lane networks are defined by the Directorate-General for Forest Resources and must be integrated into municipal and local fire forest defence planning. What is the current situation in the planning of primary fuel management bands? I would like to thank you for not running away from the issues that we are asking you here, Minister. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, there was a burb in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u180	Mrs. Members, the Bureau favours the expression of the parts and seeks to counter the noise. Thank you to the ladies. Members who could work together in the same way. Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u181	Mr President, today's debate in the Assembly of the Republic is of great importance as we are talking about the preparation of the next fire season in Portugal. Since it has been 2017 the worst year in which there is memory in our country of fires, either in the largest burning area ever, or unfortunately in the largest number of deaths caused by these, it becomes more than an imperative of consciousness, an obligation to speak and explain to Portuguese what preventive measures must be guarded by the current government to combat one of the worst consequences of hot and dry summers, increasingly frequent in Portugal, such as the deflaming of forest and rural fires. Unfortunately, apart from the whole plot around the cleaning of the bush and the cutting of trees by the dwellings—as if the trees and the covered vegetation were the only culprits of the summer fires—the preparation is little. at the level of forestry, prevention is, in fact, very close to what has been done in recent years, contrary to what is intended to make public believe. Otherwise, let's see, sirs. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members: the forest reform package, outlined after the 2016 fires, adopted a resolution of the Council of Ministers on the National Controlled Fire Programme ( PNFC ) in May 2017. The aim of this technique is to increase the areas where sustainable and sustainable structural prevention actions are carried out, strategically located, allowing the compartmentation of forest areas and support for fire control, contributing to the reduction of large areas of fire. Following this legislation, the ICNF approved, last December, a national controlled fire plan, to be in force for five years—it is judged! — having been indicated that the potential area of intervention to be subject to controlled fire in mattes is approximately 260 000 ha, of which about 10 000 ha during the period 2017 - 2018 — i.e. more 9000 ha than in previous years — at the estimated cost of 1, 2 million euros from the Permanent Forestry Fund ( FFP ). Mr Minister, since so far nothing has answered the PSD Parliamentary Group, the questions that have been asked to it, perhaps, it would be important to ask the Minister of Agriculture to, if he could, answer some questions which, here, would be important to elucidate. The first question is to know which area has already been subject to controlled fire in this period 2017 - 2018. It is important to know whether or not it is greater than the previous years, whose area of intervention subject to this residual practice was about 1000 ha, because we suspect that it remains very short of what is intended and, above all, of the desirable, which leaves us very anxious and, above all, very concerned. As we know, very specific conditions of wind, humidity and temperature are needed to promote controlled fire, but we do not think it is reasonable to waste the opportunities with bureaucracy added by the central administration. Secondly, I would also like to ask about how the competition is open to inter-municipal communities, municipal chambers, forest producer organisations, for the conduct of controlled fire actions in the 10 000 ha for the year 2018. And we would also like to know the result of the competition on the realization of extensive burns as a complement to the National Controlled Fire Programme, which ended last March 30th. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, given that eight priority NUTS III are proposed — Douro, Alto Thamega, Alto Minho, Bieiras and Serra da Estrela, Region of Coimbra, Viseu Dão Lafões, Ave and Thamega and Sousa — would we finally like to know, given its importance, how will priority be given to these regions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u182	The Bureau was informed that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration will share the response time with Mr. Minister of Agriculture. I will therefore give the floor to begin by replying to Minister Eduardo Cabrita and then to Minister Capoulas Santos. Please, Minister Eduardo Cabrite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u183	Mr President, I would like to thank all the questions put, but they understand that the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Soares, Mr João Dias and Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel are intended primarily for the Minister of Agriculture, who will use the floor at this stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u184	So answer my questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u185	Therefore, at this moment, I will devote my attention exclusively to Mr João Almeida. And to Mr. João Almeida, what I have to say is very simple: what happened in 2006 was the integration of the body of Florestal Guards into the Republican National Guard...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u186	No, no, no! It was extinction!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u187	Mr President, I have listened to you with all your calmness, elevation and consideration. In 2011 there were about 500 Florestal guards, but the places would be extinguishing when they wandered, and thus « to extinguish when they wandered » was reduced to about three hundred.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u188	He didn't stay, no! No, no, no! He didn't stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u189	You are responsible, in part, for the 'liquidation' of 200 Florestal Guards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u190	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u191	In the context of the debate on forest reform and the State budget, the CFP is responsible for the initiative of the proposed renaissance of the lifeguard career.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u192	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u193	For the sake of the safety of the Portuguese, the Government, on 21 October, decided to do so and will promote the rebirth of the career, its appropriate legal framework and the hiring of 200 new Florestal Guards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u195	Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond as objectively and as quickly as possible. Mr Pedro Soares, who asked when support for producer organisations, in particular the UGFs, is to say that it will be this month of April that tenders will be opened. With regard to the position of the Portuguese Government in view of the discussion of the common agricultural policy, as you know, only in June will the regulatory proposals of the European Commission be submitted, which does not prevent the debate from already beginning within the Council and Portugal from being the second Member State, immediately after France, to signal its positions in a document delivered to the Council on 6 March 2017. Tomorrow I will be in the Committee on the Environment, which was set up in Parliament to discuss this issue, where I will have the opportunity not only to distribute the document but also to provide all further clarifications. But I will say to you that since the Portuguese position is basically based on the following: beat-CL we will - for an appropriate budget for the common agricultural policy, hopefully at the level of maintaining its present values; we will seek - for maintaining the stability of the key of distribution between the two pillars; following the Commission's proposal, we will seek to go as far as possible in subsidiarity as regards both pillars, so that the Member State ( in this case Portugal) can have as wide a margin of manoeuvre as possible to define eligibility - among them, of course, recreation, forest, small agriculture, young farmers, investment in farms and agro-industry and innovation. Mr João Dias, on the issues you have referred to, of course, the ICNF will make this information available on your website and, with regard to the tracks that will be built, particularly those that are on private grounds, it is expected that it will be 2114 km, of course, we will apply the law whenever it is justified. Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel, it is very simple to answer your question about why they have not been burned in recent days. Finally, I do not need to say why, because the honourable Member has certainly been paying attention to meteorology and the month of March, as you know, was not those in which it rained little. So we will implement, as soon as the conditions allow — and I myself intend to participate, by attending the first releases — and by means of controlled fire and burn actions, for which there is an appropriation of EUR 3 million. Their competitions have been opened, which, I believe, are taking place right now, and of course, we will fully implement what is planned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u197	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u198	Mr. João Almeida, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u199	Mr President, being perfectly aware of the regimental framework that this has, I would ask the floor to request the defence of personal honor,... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u200	... since Mr Minister, certainly in excess — but the excesses, being said, are also responsible for those who say so — he said that I was responsible for the « winding up» of more than 200 Florestal guards.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u201	You cowards of men!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u202	Of course, at the moment of the debate, I want to defend the personal honour so that I can restore the truth, because what Mr Minister has said is obviously not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u203	As you said, the defence of personal honour should take place at the end of the debate that is under way and I will therefore give you the floor to this effect at the end of this debate and before the closing period. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: After the devastating and deadly year of 2017, which followed the dramatic summer of 2016, the government literally fired, in all directions, with the publication of laws, decrees, portals and offices, to, according to Mr. Prime Minister's statements, do what needs to be done and also because, as Minister Eduardo Cabrita has already said here today, the cleaning of the slaughter is an absolute priority. The country hoped, then, that much would change and that forest and forestry would finally be a political priority. But are they even for this government? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Just over a month ago, the CDS said in a political statement that in addition to agriculture and farmers, forest and forest producers are not on the list of priorities of this government. What we have witnessed is, in the right socialist way, a lot of propaganda, a lot of announcement of millions for very little action and distribution of coughs. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to forest prevention, the country has four sources of funding which it can and usually resort to : they are the Permanent Forestry Fund ( FFP ), the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ), the PO SEUR, the Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use, and the State Budget. Now, what do we have in the Permanent Forest Fund for 2018? They opened six contests. There was one to support the operation of the inter-municipal forest technical offices, which was now contracted at the end of March with a great announcement, and which we hope will soon be operational, indeed. There was a second competition for extensive burns, which ended on 30 March and will have to be completed at the beginning of the critical period of fires, i.e. on 1 July, if the climate does not force the anticipation of that period, which means that we have only three months to analyze, approve, contract and execute a total of 2000 ha of burns. Then we have a third competition, that of the famous «breeding goats», to open primary fuel management bands, which ends on April 15, which leads us to question how many hectares or kilometres of tracks will be actually carried out this year by this means.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u206	There is also another competition for municipalities to open and benefit from 2600 km of bands that are previously identified on the ICNF website, which ends on Friday, and 70% of these bands will have to be completed by May 31, i.e. two months for the hiring and execution of these bands. The question is, then, what will happen to the remaining 30 % if they are not subject to fines. We lack this explanation, which seems to us to be quite permanent. Finally, still in the Permanent Forest Fund, we have two competitions for forest slag teams, one for operation and one for equipment. For the operation, there is a sum available of EUR 1, EUR 6 million, which guarantees, Mrs. Members, 40 teams. Now, when it is said that the previous government did not favour forest prevention and that it did not give value to forest slags, it must be said that in 2015 it was EUR 7.8 million for the operation of forest slag teams. As for the equipment, the competition ended two days ago and having had equipment of all 272 teams of skiers in the years 2014 and 2015, it seemed logical that this would finance the 200 teams that Mr. Minister announced. But how many will be operational, effectively, in this year of 2018? You don't know anything about it. In short: in the matter of the Permanent Forest Fund, much propaganda and little execution. Is it the RDP that actually reflects the government's priority in forest prevention? We see : of the 17 contests opened since 2015, 7 are still decisionless, 5 had no allocation for much of the projects that entered and 1, precisely for fire prevention, was cancelled immediately in early 2016. I mean, ladies. Members, only 25 % of the invitations to tender were completed in full, many of them more than one year after the opening of the invitation to tender. Moreover, of the total RDP available so far for forests, 41 %, i.e. EUR 95 million, went to repair the damage rather than to prevent it; for prevention there are only 23 % of RDP funds. If there were any doubts, when we talk about demagogy, I think we are all clear. Well, then — and almost to finish — if there was no priority for prevention either in the Permanent Forestry Fund or in the RDP, we wonder if there may have been in the SEUR PO. But no, not even here! The two contests that were opened in 2015 and 2016 were approved and not executed by the ICNF, which makes us think of the word « captivating ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u207	Mrs. Member, you've reached your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u208	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It seems that these contests will be run now in 2018. of the State budget, which is the fourth source of financing for prevention, we do not know what is beyond the announcements. Because this is a debate about the near future of the forest, and I cannot but say, when we speak in eucalyptus, that since the « law of eucalyptisation», 2700 ha / year of eucalyptus have been planted, when, in the previous 15 years, there have been 6000 ha, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u209	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u210	Finally, Mr President, I leave a final note to say that on the reform of the forest, the CDS presented proposals, among which I recall the proposal for deduction to the collection for small forest owners, which was plunged by the PCP and the Left Block, which joined the PS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u211	Well remembered! The Block wasn't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u212	It is therefore necessary to say this: they were small owners who could have had a benefit in their IRS (tax on income of natural persons), which you did not allow. So to finish, we ask ourselves and ask the Portuguese: if all this had been done in time, if the CDS proposals had been accepted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u213	Mrs. Deputy, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u214	...what could have been different? It is therefore necessary for this government to turn from words to acts and carry out in time all the measures it announces. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u215	Sometimes the 'to finish' is almost the longest period of intervention. Mr Joaquim Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : following the CDS-PP, today we resume the debate on the forest. I recognise that it is positive and widespread the contemporary discussion of forests: we are operationalizing the protection of the natural building; we are legislating as never before around the forests; we are promoting, promoting and defending the forest; we are defining and implementing policies of planning, planning, management and prevention for the forest sector; we are informing, sensitizing, involving, collaborating and supporting civil society, forest producers, their organisations and authorities for the cleaning of forests; we are in the middle of winter reducing fuel; we are cleaning up around the buildings and villages — facts that, in our perspective, are very positive. The Socialist Party has always placed its first priority on people in this legislature. With consolidated economic growth and unemployment to be reduced, it is therefore important to consolidate the new development cycle with a clear bet now on the territory. We are materializing public policies aimed at forests and their territorial spaces. These policies will increase territorial and social cohesion and fill the deep demographic asymmetries between the coast and the interior, between rural and urban, between what burns and disappears repeatedly year after year. The year 2017 has shown that there are still great weaknesses in the national territory and allow you to be told that the CDS and PSD are not oblivious to responsibility in this tragic reality. The extreme consequences of the fires that devastated the territory, coupled with changes in climate conditions, have shown the need to strengthen the safety of populations and their assets. The security, legitimate interests and aspirations of local communities must and are already being assured by the central State. Today there is a widespread observation that in recent years this government has lived from backs to the mountain countryside, in a scenario of lack of policies and strategic vision for the forest in Portugal, where 97% of the area is private and 3% is from the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we cannot ignore that more than 67 % of the territory of mainland Portugal has forest fitness and that over the last 15 years we have lost more than 150 000 hectares of forest, while adding to these numbers an increase of more than 300 000 hectares of forests and pastures, as a result of the loss of the forest area and the increase of unculted territories. It is undeserving to reverse this unfortunate reality. The forests and all the spaces that are linked to them and associated with them, either by their natural attributes, or by their important resources for the populations, constitute a common good for the whole society. And as a common preservation, we are defining and implementing public policies that encourage the active management of the territory, contrary to the abandonment by its owners, supporting family agriculture, protecting forest areas, including the constant threat of fires, diseases and pests and woody invaders in the post-fire. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mrs. Secretary of State, now is the time to bring about the Portuguese forest. The decentralization of public policies to the territories will have to be a categorical imperative. We must continue to support and centralize public policies for forests in consensus but with good sense. It is the time for new regional and local forest planning, planning and management policies. Planning, planning and forest management are essential, but they will only have the intended and desired effect if there are institutions and means on the ground at regional and local level that implement the options taken. We must monitor, responsible and equip these resource institutions with knowledge and technical and professional capacity, which are indispensable for the full exercise of these responsibilities. The Socialist Party advocates a greater appreciation of the forest and its multiple use, betting on integrated and sustained projects of treery and re-arborization, with all those that enjoy it. Our vision of forests as multi-use spaces should attract and motivate the populations that live there and develop their activities, providing them with more development opportunities, especially forest producers, shepherds, hunters, beekeepers, sports lovers, nature and leisure, among others. We're having another attitude and changing the way we act. We are giving priority to forest management and prevention to reduce costs with the fight against forest fires. This change in the paradigm of fires is necessary and fundamental for the effective management of forests. The reduction of biomass is inevitable in the professional management of forests. It is important to increase the involvement and accountability of owners, forest technicians and forest engineering, incorporating also scientific knowledge. The Independent Technical Commission, in the 2017 Fire Report, reported that the three major forest fire problems included, among others, the following areas: knowledge, qualification and governance. It is now the time of politics: Caesar what is Caesar's, what is politics. The forest and its territories, by the action of this government, are and will continue to be the new priority of public policies. The resolution of the deep structural causes that are at the basis of the degradation of forest areas is the realization of this new paradigm of the government to center the development policies of these territorial spaces, valuing its environmental, social and knowledge dimension. Now is the time for political action and its operationalization. This is also the time of the Assembly of the Republic to give consistency to public policies for forests, presented by the Government during this legislature, and to begin to measure, objectively and in time, its results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u217	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This debate, at its end, clearly demonstrates what the PSD has reported in recent times, a toxic propaganda campaign that the government has carried out to try to clear up the failures that existed in the fight against last year's fires. This campaign has not allowed the government itself to prepare the next time of fires as it should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u219	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u220	What we have today is a country with no means and no sustainable strategy to fight rural fires. Look at yourself — and stop! — as today was the end of both the EMA (Aerios Company ), but no one spoke from the left of what was the lead of the current government to the concentration in the Air Force of air assets to combat fires, as proposed by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u221	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u222	But if the vision of what combat is and the preparation of combat is already duly terrifying, what is at the level of forest prevention is no better. The attitude continues to be blamed on the owners and inhabitants of the rural world, exacerbating and intensifying the problems of the rural economy, where, of course, sustainable fuel management is inserted, but this government, with half a dozen rough solutions presented, is increasingly moving away from what is scientific or empirical knowledge. This bet on the apparent illusion of prevention is blinding political power and also misleading citizens and opinion makers, who suddenly seem to know how to prevent and fight forest fires, and this is what this government insists on. He has been in a day-to-day election campaign and insists on this easy propaganda of the politically correct, which is independent of what the country needs or what our forest needs to grow and be better. First, here in the Assembly, he accused the eucalyptus by the size of the fires. Secondly, he blamed the owners for mismanagement of their land, held them responsible for harming third parties, doubling the fines and imposing absurd deadlines. Thirdly, it has created new legal obligations without any technical rigor, the effect of which is precisely the opposite of the intended. The government has increased primary productivity, that is, Mr. Members, the growth of the forests, making it more frequent the need for their management, consequently increasing this work and making it impossible for the profitability of the territory. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, cutting trees near houses with pathetic distances and brushing dead in the berma of the roads, no, is not only what was expected of structural prevention in Portugal and that the country deserved after what happened last year. Structural prevention, at the forestry level, is much more than that, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This structural prevention would have worked if there had been a compliance with preventive procedures carried out in the winter months, such as the use of controlled fire and the construction and preparation of forest slag teams, which have already been spoken and announced more than once. But if you remember, last year, the Minister for Agriculture went advertising, even promising and ensuring that the team of scouts were on the ground in June, but were only put to work in August, when half of Portugal was already burning. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, until the use of smart prunings or skimmings, none of this has been the choice of this government. Moreover, this government has always been to remain closed in its propaganda, disregarding any advice or opinion of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u223	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs. Members, the Government and the left continue to use the forest as a currency of political exchange or as an easy way to advertise and whitewash the errors of the forest fight, always closing their eyes to what is the real problem of the forest in Portugal, which is based on the lack of economic promotion in the rural world and, above all, on the need for these rural activities and the forest to be properly valued and profitable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u225	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of a tragedy like the one that hit the country last year, it is normal for the country to join in a collective effort, in the sense that the tragedy does not repeat itself again. I believe that the country is united in this determination and that the attitude of the PSD and the CDS in this debate does not, fortunately, reflect the feeling and determination of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Determination and feeling of a country already seen—just walk through that country outside—in the prevention actions that have been carried out. And, in view of the evidence of its implementation, the PSD now says that they are irrelevant, as it is probably when the reinforcements of the GIPS, the first intervention companies, professional firefighters or the air media are realized, will also be said to be irrelevant. It's just, sirs. Members, in view of the evidence that the government has become aware of the dimension of the matter and has acted quickly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u228	How fast? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u229	...the opposition will hesitate to devalue what is done...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u230	They put PS boys where there were competent people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u231	We now have the elevation of Mr Duarte Marques, which corresponds to the challenge just now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Quickness, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because these measures are not delayed for weeks, but, as I said last week, they are delayed for years and the government has assumed its responsibilities. In fact, I must say that in this debate only the PS and the Government have assumed responsibilities so far. What impresses me most is that in all this debate from months to months, no one, but even no one in these benches, has had that rebat of consciousness to say, at any time, that something about the political options of the PSD and CDS has ever been wrong and has ever contributed to the tragedy of last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u232	He's crazy! Must be Kamov's!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no further requests for speech. We have therefore reached the end of the debate and that is why it is time to give the floor to Mr João Pinho de Almeida, who has requested it for the purpose of defending honour or consideration. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The regimental figure I have invoked is an exceptional figure and it will not be by chance that in many years of parliamentary activity I have never used it. I must say that the context in which I invoke it is even more unexpected. I did not expect to do so in such a debate and much less in relation to an intervention made by Minister Eduardo Cabrita, who I have known for many years of this kind of debate. But the Minister will agree that, when we perform public functions, there are things that we cannot admit to being told. We cannot admit it when we perform public functions and when we preserve, above all, the intransigent defense of those who serve in the areas protected by us and the dignity with which each of the women and men who perform functions in those areas are respected by us. When Mr Minister said that I contributed to the liquidation of more than 200 Florist guards, although this was an excess of language, it was an excess of unacceptable language. I have always sought to defend not only the Florestal guards as all those who served in the Ministry of Internal Administration while I had the honour of being Secretary of State. I did it with special zeal in the Florestal Guard, it is true, because the body of the Florestal Guard, among those who served at the time the Ministry of Internal Administration, had been the most disrespected in previous years. I found in the Florestal Guard fully demotivated people, not knowing how he had to perform his duties, without heaviness at the height, without dignity to perform the function. Do you know why, Minister? Because the only thing that could be based on was a decree by law that said that the body of the Forest Guard had been extinct and that his career was extinguished when he wandered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u235	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u236	These two hundred and so they came out was not by any decision of the Government that I was part of, these two hundred and so they came out was by virtue of the decree-law that you approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u237	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u238	I'll finish. This decree-law said that the career of the Florestal Guards was extinguished when he wandered. There is one thing I have done and I have a lot of honour in it, in fact, that is why I asked for the defense of honor: it was not out of the government that I took part without reopening the door so that there would be another Forest Guard in Portugal. I did not leave the government without making the legislative amendment that would allow it! [[PCP protests.]] I have with me the statement of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) where you can read that it was six months of negotiation but that the claims were met, were attended with honor, wage valorization and dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u239	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u240	Of course, the Minister has exceeded, but there are excesses that cannot be admitted. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u241	I ask the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, if you would like to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u242	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u243	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u244	Mr President, Mr Pinho de Almeida, of course, that the parliamentary experience, and not only of conviving with Mr Pinho, would never allow the attack to be committed at any time. It was not substantial, nor would it ever be as intention. But I respect your concern. When the debates go wrong, life is like this: one tries to find mechanisms that allow... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u245	What are you going to do now? Call the High Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u246	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u247	Maintaining exactly what had been stated, that is, that the Forest Guard had been integrated into the Republican National Guard and that the path on which it was to be extinct when they wandered the places, I have to point out very concrete facts. The first fact has to do with an initiative by the CFP for the rebirth of the Forest Guard. This proposal of the CFP was approved in this House in the debate on forest reform and was included in the State Budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u248	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u249	The second is that it is due to the current government, through the decisions taken on 21 October, to adopt mechanisms that will allow the recruitment of 200 new Florestal Guards. Mr Deputie, I am making a small correction, nothing about the background but strictly numerical, because I did not foresee, for my consideration, this moment of less concentration: in 2011 there were 385 Florestal Guards and in 2015 there were 318 Florestal Guards. In fact, it did not reduce by 200, it continued a path of extinction, fortunately now being affected by the Assembly's decision, which will be achieved. I am counting on you to accompany us when these new Florestal guards begin their duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u250	It's a lie! It's fake! Be serious! You've extinguished and we've rejected the race!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u251	They haven't refused!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u252	It was published after I left the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u253	They've been there four and a half years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u254	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move to the closing stage of the debate. I call on them to make conditions for this. To that end, Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost to conclude the request to the Government, requested by the CDS, on the preparation of the next fire season, it is important to draw a very clear conclusion and a notice, Mr. José Miguel Medeiros. The CDS has fulfilled its obligation, having questioned, asked the government, and so on — this is the warning — it will continue to do, not only because it is its right but especially because it is its obligation. And I would like to tell you already that the government has not fulfilled its obligation, it has not answered, and the majority who supports it has not wanted to respond, which makes it even more serious that there are no answers with which today not only the CDS but especially the Portuguese leave this debate. After a terrible summer for the country, where everything or almost everything has failed in the planning, action and reaction, it was clear that the CDS and the Portuguese wanted to know - and we will continue to demand it - whether the command will work or not, whether the pre-positioning of the means will be done or not, and whether the means will exist, if the combat and autotanks cars of firefighters will be operational, if the firefighters will be prepared and with the skills defined and correctly defined, if the role of the Armed Forces is defined and what type of means they will have, as well as the security forces and services, where they will be taken the means to go to the GIPS, if they will lose awareness in the territorial brigades, if the air resources will be active, how many and when, if the warnings of the weather will work and will be consequent, if the communications will not fail, if the law of the civil protection will be ready, if the awareness campaigns to avoid risk behaviors will be made more clear and will be done, and will be well- By now, we are still aware, as has been well mentioned by Mr Telmo Correia, that INEM is responding later than it should be. About this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what did the government and the majority who support it do? Did you answer the questions? Are you coming to the debate? Did they clear up the Portuguese? Did they guarantee deadlines? Did they guarantee means? Did they say everything was ready? Have you calmed the Parliament down? Don't! They either did not answer the questions or chose to insult the opposition. They did their duty! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]] from the government, I was pointing out what I heard. I heard the expressions « plan», « dialogue », « project », « reflect » and « prepare », but I never heard Mr. Minister say « do » or « did ». What is more strange is that the Minister has come to say, moreover, in a critical tone, that the fire season is over, that now the fire season is all year round and that this is an outdated concept. Mr Minister says that and at the same time he does not say that something is ready. It does not give a guarantee, it does not answer a question, it does not say how many air resources you have right now, to this day. If the fire season is the whole year, then what means do we have at this time on April 4th? Mr Minister, I should have reassured not only the CDS but especially the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For the PCP and the Left Block, we get it. It's the usual! They do the usual exercise of political amnesia: nothing happened, nothing happened and what happened or might have happened is the previous government's fault. We have almost come to the dawn of knowing that it is up to the previous majority, today opposition, to make the planning of the next period of forest fires. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this reveals two things: on the one hand, it reveals the attachment to power that the PCP and the Left Block quickly won with this new government model... [[Rice from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ... and, on the other hand, reveals total disrespect for the Portuguese, who deserved another position on your part, another supervision, another requirement, which they have not shown at any time in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u256	It's for the places we have in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u257	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS, I repeat, in exercise of a right, but which we consider a duty, will continue to question the government to know what is being done, what is being done, what is being done and what is not being done. That is how you respect those who have been so often invoked here, but only in words, those who fight on the ground, the fire companies, civil protection, those who are concerned about the lack of preparation, planning, means and which you very much praise but do nothing for the exercise of your duties, just remembering them when things go wrong, in a sort of pass-back that we have seen here this afternoon. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in due course, we do our duty and we will continue to do this: to question the government. We left here without a single answer. Minister, you have another 6 minutes, you have one more chance. It has 6 minutes to finally answer the following: what means do we have? How many? For when? What kind of preparation will there be? How will it be done? The Portuguese will not forgive you unless you answer these questions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u258	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development has the floor for a closing intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: this debate has clearly shown that a plan to prevent rural fires is being implemented in Portugal with an unprecedented involvement of society. It was also clear that there was no basis for criticism of the CDS and it was clear that it was difficult to conceal its own responsibilities in the prevention of rural fires during the four and a half years in which it held governmental responsibility in this area. The memory that we all have of the tragic year of 2017, and that we will never forget, compels us to make every effort and to go as far as possible not only in the preventive actions that constitute the main theme of this debate, not only in the fight against fires, but also in the implementation of forest reform. It is a gigantic and long-term task that the Government launched in 2016 and which requires of all political and social forces continued commitment, to make them visible expressive results on the horizon of a generation. with regard to the tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, I would like to stress the main actions in the field of prevention, both direct and indirect. As for direct preventive actions, the intervention plan is being implemented in areas under the management of the ICNF, public forests and forest perimeters, whose territorial scope covers 82 municipalities and which primarily affects the areas identified as at greater risk. With this plan execute-CL- will be, until May 31, 3000 ha of fuel management bands involving houses and villages, 2800 ha of primary network and mosaics, 1116 ha of fuel interruption ranges, 3000 km of forest roads and 5000 ha of areas to be covered by controlled fire actions, in addition to for the first time, the hiring of services using ruminants to combat the growth of forests and herbaceous vegetation in primary networks and fuel interruption bands. I thank Mrs Patrícia Fonseca for having listed the dates of the tenders and the amounts of all these measures being implemented. These actions, which have been in the field since December last year, have an estimated cost of around 14 million euros, almost entirely supported by the Permanent Forest Fund. For areas under private management, the ICNF will run another 2114 km of tree and forest cleaning tracks. On the other hand, Measure 8.1.3. of the Rural Development Programme — through which some EUR 25 million is already paid to private promoters — has approved, and the payment, another EUR 35 million, corresponding to 728 applications from private promoters and authorities. The allocation of this measure, the last of which ended two days ago, was reinforced by EUR 17 million and the territorial incidence of this measure will cover 146 municipalities. The Ministry of Agriculture also finances 215 technicians, which comprise so many other municipal forest technical offices, and under the agreement recently concluded less than 1 month ago, with 20 inter-municipal communities, from this year on will also finance the hiring of a forest technician by each new inter-municipal forest technical office in order to improve the technical capacity of articulation at this level of local power. with regard to the strengthening of forest slag teams — already mentioned here today — after 20 new and re-equipped teams have been set up last year, the government has invested a cycle of several years of paralysis in this area. At the moment, the competition for the acquisition of 100 new fully equipped cars is open to 100 new forest slag teams which the Government has undertaken to set up this year. these teams are part of the first 13 new intermunicipal brigades, which will also have heavy equipment. A financial boost of € 3000 per team was also made available for the renovation of the equipment for the 200 oldest teams, a measure representing public support of €600 000. This whole device, which is installed in 178 municipalities, will be available from this year more than 2000 men and women. This expenditure will be fully borne by the Permanent Forest Fund, such as the controlled fire and burn programme, to which an appropriation of EUR 3 million is allocated, with which it is intended to manage fuel in about 25 000 ha. This preventive action covers an area exceeding two thirds of the territory of mainland Portugal and represents a global financial effort in 2018 of around EUR 124 million. however, as important as the direct preventive effort I have just mentioned is the action with long-term effects that we are also implementing, using the main financial instruments that the Ministry of Agriculture has: the Permanent Forestry Fund and the RDP 2020. Only within the framework of the PDR 2020 — that Portugal is the Member State of the European Union with the third best financial performance, only behind Ireland and Finland — are currently contracted 2707 projects, benefiting from public support of EUR 314 million, of which EUR 153 million is already fully paid. Public support already paid and contracted in the PDR 2020 forest measures in only 3 years exceeds the full financial implementation of the seven years of PRODER ( between 2007 and 2013 ) in EUR 12 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to recall, by the way, that in the allocation of the previous Rural Development Programme, managed by a militant from the CDS-PP, more than EUR 150 million were withdrawn from the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u260	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u261	I believe that — and I shall finish, Mr President — that not only has the lack of justification for the criticisms of the CDS but also that the Government is strongly committed not only to the immediate prevention of fires, but also to the structural change in the management and management of the forest, making it safer, more resilient and more sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-04.u262	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this concludes the appeal to the Government No 19 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) of the CDS initiative. The plenary meeting of tomorrow, which will take place, as usual, for 15 hours, will have as a single item on the agenda the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Nothing else to deal with, I wish you all a very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 43 minutes.]]
