ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the authority to open the galleries to the public and ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 857 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increases the value of the fines applied to companies that do not pay the exhibition and subscription fees that finance cinematographic art ( third amendment to Law No 55 / 2012 of 6 September 2012 ) ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission and draft resolutions 1561 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelinhos Secondary School and removes all fibrosis plates ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1562 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the rehabilitation of the Second School of Father Benjamim Salgado, in the village of Joane ( CDS-PP ), which also falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start our agenda today, with the general discussion of Bill No 123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The digital age is rapidly changing payment systems and how citizens manage their finances. More and more consumers use the phone and the Internet to make their payments. More and more citizens use digital means to choose an investment, get a credit, or have a full perspective on their financial situation. The bill we are presenting today meets the challenges posed by these technological advances. It is a proposal that favours innovation and, at the same time, challenges banks to prepare themselves for a new world, a world in which financial services go mainly through smartphones, tablets and other electronic devices. The entry into force of this legislation will be the starting point for changing banking business as we know it. With this proposal, which initiates the transposition of the Payment Services Directive, the legal regime of payment services, which has already existed since 2009, increases competition in the payment sector and consumer choice, strengthens the security of online payments, regulates for the first time new types of payment services and develops the single market for electronic payments. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, highlight the main points of this bill. First, new types of payment system operators are subject to regulation. These new operators will, on the customer's initiative, be able to start online payments without the need to use a credit card, but will also, on the client's initiative, be able to add the financial information of each customer on a single digital screen. With this information, customers may at any time have access to their overall and aggregated financial situation. We have no doubt that the development of payment services is useful to citizens, but regulation is needed to allow this to take place in a context of consumer safety, protecting your personal data and your savings. at the same time, the legislation we propose encourages the entry of new players into the market, stimulating competition and technological innovation. The proposal also reinforces the transparency of payment operations, as well as the reporting obligations and creates new rules for the control of operational risks. We know that this bill represents a turning point for the traditional banking business. What was an exclusive banking sector is now within the reach of fintech companies. But more than competitors, banks and fintech companies can and should be partners. Banks offer a customer base, capital and regulatory experience. The new operators, in turn, offer technological innovation and agility in the development of services. The ease and speed of access to financial services, as well as the response to specific needs of consumers and businesses, give rise to better advice and more appropriate solutions. We know, however, that technological innovation in the financial sector also brings risks and threats. Regulation and supervision are therefore essential to minimize the risks to privacy and security. A set of diplomas, including the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Payment Services Directive itself, have been designed to facilitate digital life. For example, unauthorized transactions rules are defined in order to hold those providing payment services accountable. So if something goes wrong, it is easier to identify who has failed and to take its consequences. In addition, the consumer is more protected, starting to bear up to €50 in the case of unauthorized operations, when until today it was up to €150. The new world may take time to acquire public, given the inertia of consumers and the resistance in delivering bank data to other institutions, even if authorized. But the question today is no longer to know when we will enter this new era, but to what scale and to what extent we will do so. With the proposal presented, we aim to achieve a balance between development and technological innovation and the necessary protection of consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u5	On behalf of the PSD, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world has changed after the economic and financial collapse of the last decade. Customers have become more informed, more demanding and question the commissions charged to them by the financial system. They're convinced they pay a lot and get a little. in this environment, fintech, customer-oriented companies have emerged and are protagonists of the greatest transformation of the financial markets. These, with the growth of digital businesses, will also change the labour market and traditional forms of hiring employees. We are discussing today the directive that will end the monopoly that financial institutions have on the information of their customers and on payment services. With this new Directive, we live a third wave of innovation on the Internet, the moment from which technological companies enter regulated sectors, such as the financial sector, without the need to be subject to the heavy regulation of it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Directive and its transposition deserve our general agreement, but it is important to alert the concerns and review these same concerns in the specialty. They are concerns relating to the protection of consumers of financial services; they are, in particular, the risks of fraud in the execution of transfers and payments and the protection of customer personal data. We all know the risks that the financial activity ends and therefore it is important to ensure that the transposition of the Directive in Portugal protects consumers. Overall, however, positive aspects of the European Directive are highlighted here: more competition, which, of course, is a contribution to the best levels of satisfaction, as well as to reducing costs for consumers. in this perspective, it has not been well for the government to delay the transposition of the Directive, whose two-year deadline has already ended last January, which has since created two damages: a reputational damage as a country, insofar as it is one of the few States that has not given due importance to this issue. But at the same time, it has created an economic damage, which is also well reported by the Competition Authority when it accuses the government and the financial regulator who have had a slow response and puts obstacles to the realization of the benefits of technological innovation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this delay is also a hostility to the innovators, to the digitisation of the financial sector, to startups, to finetech. This delay is a practice that is completely geared to propaganda about the digitalization and technological innovation that the current government makes. in practice, this delay is a blockade promoted by the government and supported by the supervisory bank, Banco de Portugal, which places Portugal and the Portuguese consumers as one of the few European peoples who do not benefit from this development situation on the market. So much talk about digitalization and technological startups, but in action this is a retrograde, delayed and limiting government of competition and the benefits of digitization. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD finds no objective reason to apologize for this delay, even because this is the most numerous government ever, with 18 ministers and 43 State Secretaries. We therefore see no reason for the delay that they are not merely incompetence and incapacity to other fulfilling Member States. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u7	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill is intended to enable the Government to transpose into the domestic legal order Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services on the internal market, which has carried out a review of the European framework on services and payments. The amendments proposed by this legislative initiative seek to address the challenges posed by economic reality and the dynamics associated with payment services, with a view to the widespread implementation of new means of payment on the market. Concerns related to the protection and safety of consumers in the use of these payment services are fundamental objectives. This solution will allow the expansion of new types of payment services, as well as a set of rules to ensure the security and transparency associated with the provision of payment services and the issuance of electronic money. This legislative initiative, by bringing together in a single regulatory act the payment service provision regime and the system relating to access to the activity of electronic money institutions, their exercise and prudential supervision, has as its central purpose the protection of payment service users using the electronic currency issue. It is also necessary to review the applicable sanction framework and also to adapt the internal legal order to a set of European regulations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with this legislative authorization, intends to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services which have, in summary, the following objectives: the promotion of security and transparency associated with the provision of electronic payment services and the issuance of electronic money; the protection and safety of consumers in the use of electronic payment services, ensuring the choice of the consumer in better conditions of safety, efficiency and efficiency; and the promotion of innovation and development, electronic control, in competitive conditions, that is for the benefit of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are sure that the legislative authorization in question, with the scope and objectives it aims, will enable us to create a legislative acquis that protects citizens and, in this respect, also, respond to the technological challenges facing society, always walking in the perspective of consumer protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State, he described the purposes of this legislative authorisation, with which the CDS agrees, but I think it would be important to start by explaining the delay in transposition of this Directive. This directive is very important in terms of opening up payment markets, and it is also important that the Government, which speaks both of innovation, openness and of Portugal's need to be at the forefront in this area, explains why it is that in a matter such as this, which is very important for many innovative companies, but also for all Portuguese consumers, it has been delayed, and much, leaving itself behind, with both companies and consumers at the same time. The truth, Mr. Secretary of State, is that many Portuguese companies now start at a clear disadvantage, because they did not have time to gain muscle and position themselves on the Portuguese market. Thus, these companies are clearly disadvantaged by competition from other foreign companies, who have had time to implement and become accustomed to this opening. Therefore, I think it was normal and reasonable to give this explanation. Secondly, with regard to Portuguese consumers, I believe it would be important to explain the advantages of opening up these markets — and here, in the past, we have often had discussions on fees paid by payment services, both by consumers and by companies. It is therefore important to see whether this legislation will have any impact on committees and competition from the Commission's point of view. And if so, it is still important to understand why once again the government has left itself behind, remaining the payment market in Portugal, closed, that is, because the government has compacted with that closure of the market. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u11	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The emergence of new forms of electronic payment related to the development of technological means and the constant improvement of electronic identification technologies and the massification of their use has created an increasing universe of transactions that correspond to payments made in all areas of activity and that replace, in increasing part, and increasingly significant, cash payments and physical exchange of money. In several services, present or via telematics, a large volume of payments is made with support in the electronic currency. And there is a market for this service, the payment service delivery market, which accompanies this growth, in the availability of either automatic boxes, or electronic payment terminals, or cards and other payment services. This proliferation of services, within the framework of automatic boxes, removed the monopoly to Multibank. And I take it to note that the Multibank represents a top service, a top technology, which is still available to the Portuguese and which was developed by several banks, which were all public at the time, which also proves that the public bank and companies serving the State can also develop technology, improve their service and be at the service of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u14	But, as I said, this proliferation of services removed the monopoly to the Multibank, within the framework of automatic boxes, and created a much larger and more complex offer both in these services and in other forms of payment. Of course, there is also the reverse of the medal, because this proliferation of services created, in many of them, the concept of payment or fees or commissions in the use of these services itself, which did not exist in the context of the Multibank monopoly, only, of course, in a more restricted universe. This is a factual proliferation and is particularly intense in the forms of payment not automatic boxes, such as cards, software applications, smartphones, etc. In the view of the CFP, this increase in supply should be accompanied by stronger regulation and greater protection of the consumer. In view of the risks associated with electronic currency, counterfeiting, fraud, theft or theft of cards or even other electronic currency media, as well as the risks inherent in the own conduct of transactions, the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that this initiative is a positive step towards ensuring better protection of the consumer in an increasingly complex market. New requirements for service providers, particularly in the area of consumer rights, but also in the application of the principles of meeting the criteria on the suitability of managers, and new requirements for institutions issuing electronic money — some of which have already been in practice — are elements which deserve this legislative authorisation and which, on the part of the CFP, also deserve agreement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said that the unification of the payment system in Portugal, the unification resulting from the fact that there is a nationalised banking system, has brought many advantages. We often asked why in Portugal we could always go to the same Multibank with a card from any bank and never pay a fee when, in other countries, we often had to go to the Multibank associated with a specific bank or pay fees according to the bank we were associated with. This has to do with the fact that in Portugal there is a single system of payments and a Multibank network that has been developed jointly by all banks, which has brought benefits not only to the level of technological development but also to access to banking services. As this is a reality, it is also true that the offer of electronic means of payment has changed a lot. These means of payment are today a reality, and they are a reality that is developing very quickly, not only in payment instruments—i.e. multibank cards, credit cards, mobile applications, online payment platforms associated with our bank accounts—but there are even companies that are not financial and that provide electronic means of payment in order to be able to pay directly, being debited directly into the account of these services. Finally, there is a huge array of financial services that are not regulated today and whose real consequences we still do not understand very well. This bill aims to regulate a part of these electronic payment service providers. It is true that there are advantages and comfort in how these payments can be made, it is also true that there are many concerns that must be guarded, and I think these are the ones that need to discuss. The first ones are: who are these companies? Who or who can not provide these services? The latter are: what kind of services can they actually be provided? Who are the owners of these companies that provide electronic services? What are the eligibility rules that apply to the owners of these electronic services companies? How do customers of companies providing this type of electronic services protect themselves? How do customers protect themselves from fraud, from lack of information, from any kind of abuse of information on the part of those who provide these services? I think that in general these issues about these companies and more particulars are answered in general terms in the legislative authorization submitted to the Assembly of the Republic. But there is a second set of issues that have much more to do with prudential issues and financial stability that are not sufficiently answered here. The legislative authorisation shall refer to the Banco de Portugal all prudential supervision of these institutions, but it is unclear as to the macroeconomic risks and the financial stability associated not only with these companies but also with all kinds of electronic payment services. There are two related phenomena, which are not directly related to these companies: one, it has to do with cryptomoeds, i.e. parallel units that serve speculative purposes and on which there is no control by central banks; another, it is to know when these companies stop being mere intermediaries and become able to generate credit and, therefore, become able to generate currency outside the traditional banking system. We understand that, with regard to these macro-prudential issues, the proposal for a law is not clear enough, so I think that these would be the risks worth discussing with the Government and Mr Secretary of State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u17	After concluding the general assessment of Bill No 123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we will move on to the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data and draft law No 856 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2004 of 18 August, as amended by Law No 55 -A / 2010 of 31 December 2010, which regulates the organisation and operation of the National Data Protection Commission ( PS ). To present the bill, she has the floor of the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The General Data Protection Regulation (GDP) results from a long negotiation process — which must have been accompanied by the previous government — which was initiated in the European Union in 2012 and which culminated in a significant, not to say radical, change of the current regime. It is a very extensive document, as you can see, with many recitals, and complex, and sometimes the solutions in it seem disproportionate to the generality of the national business fabric and also to public entities, where the 3091 fregetes are included. in the process of adapting national legislation to GDPR, we therefore sought, after public consultation, to minimize, in the short possible margin, the charges, which are many in the calculation we are making, arising from the Regulation for those who have to observe it, without, of course, deprotecting, at any time, the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the data holders. Therefore, the proposed law minimizes the impact of fines on the private sector, considering Article 13. the GDPR. There is also a difference between the entities for whom the data are the legitimate basis of their business and the public bodies that collect and use personal data for the fulfilment of legal obligations or the provision of public service, in particular to simplify the lives of citizens and businesses. Therefore the non-application of fines to public entities and bodies is a freedom which the Regulation has left to the Member States in Article 83. , paragraph 7, and not an exception proposed in this law, contrary to what I have heard. It was also the solution adopted by other Member States such as Germany or Austria. We must not over-regulation what is already heavily regulated. In fact, in our proposal for a law, an atypical regime has even been established and this exemption is expected to be re-appreciated at the end of three years of the entry into force of this law. However, it should be recalled that this does not exempt public entities from the fulfilment of all the obligations laid down in the Regulation and in the law, and from their supervision, nor does it protect individuals from their rights in the protection of personal data made available to public entities. In summary, the general lines of the bill are based on the following parameters: to avoid institutional breakdowns and therefore to establish the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) as a supervisory authority, which should be equipped with the means necessary to fulfil this function in a more demanding framework; to consolidate the permissible margin of limitations provided for in the GDPR, in relation to labour rights and scientific research needs, in particular in the field of health; and to adopt a line of convergence with other European legislative projects, as many of these entities move in the European area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Regulation should serve essentially for what has been done, which is to protect the data of citizens, without food for bureaucracy and unnecessary conflict and the collection of revenue associated with them so often. To achieve this goal, we will all have to work cooperatively and, above all, pedagogically, especially in a first phase, both in the private sector and in the public sector, until the new rules and the new model become normal. Let us also hope that this is the final meaning of the law, whose discussion begins today in this House, and that the ladies and gentlemen. Members will have the right and the duty to improve and change as they think best. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u19	Mr José Manuel Pureza was appointed to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u20	Mr President, Minister, the Community Regulation will enter into force on 25 May. That's what he has. This is a diploma with direct applicability and will therefore be so. If there is discussion in the specialty, it will certainly not end before that date, because specialized work, especially in such a complex matter as this, will require greater rigour, greater weighting, taking all the issues into account. In other words, all of this must be done with great rigour. The consequence of this is that, if the debate in the specialty ends after May 25, we will have a personal data protection regime that will walk, let us say, in changes that are undesirable for all purposes. This is certainly a period in which the current data protection law, which is not yet repealed by the new legislation, has a very limited effect, because it is a regulation that has direct applicability, and then it will come into force, possibly perfected, as the Minister said, and the regulation itself. In other words, there is a clear risk of having different regimes applied at immediate times, and I believe that this does not help anything. Just to give you an example, in one regime and another, the powers of the National Data Protection Commission are different. There is a significant change in the previous monitoring model for successive monitoring. Mr President, I should like to ask you whether this is duly considered by the Government and what measures the Government will take to reduce the disturbances that are likely to result from this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u21	In reply, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u22	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, thank you very much for your question. The legislative process now rests with the Assembly, such as the approval of the new status of the CNPD. on the part of the Government, of course we will do everything — and we are doing — to prepare public entities and to help private entities through the IAPMEI (Agence for Competitiveness and Innovation) to prepare themselves for the implementation of the Regulation, because, in any case, this law is limited to implementing certain aspects of the Regulation, let us say, and the margin given by the Regulation to the legislator, who is of course Parliament, is not even very large. We'll have, from now on—we're already doing it! — to prepare us for the new model which will enter into force in a framework which can only be more complicated, although CNPD also has supervisory powers. They are probably not their main powers at the moment, because the model was ex ante evaluation and goes to an ex post evaluation model, but I also think that it will not be for long to live in this transition. I must tell you, Mr President, that, as you will know — I am sure you have read the Rules of Procedure carefully, until you have drawn up the opinion of 1. The Commission — this is a work that we have to do with great commitment, but it will take a long time and will require work for all of us. And when I say 'all of us' I don't even care much about the big public entities, because they are always better prepared, I worry about all the public entities, and so I quoted here today the more than 3000 Fregues to whom the regulation applies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u23	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to present the PS initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u24	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Indeed, this step today is a fundamental element, so we welcome, first of all, the proposal for a law submitted by the Government, which is precisely, as has been mentioned, an adaptation to the national reality of what is the result of the regulation in question. It should be pointed out that it is a regulation and therefore it is of direct and immediate applicability. This is not the need for a directive to be transposed, and from 25 May, these will be the rules that will apply. We would certainly prefer to have the process already completed and that what in addition to national legislation might be necessary was already in force on 25 May. however, there is a previous structure, there is a previous history, there is a previous work of the activity of the National Data Protection Commission, which is valuable and which remains, to a large extent, relevant to the substantive aspect of the application of the Regulation. The amendments, as the Minister pointed out, have to do with the form of control that, no longer being ex ante and becoming ex post, however, does not dramatically alter the content of the assessment of what is lawful and what is not, how the data are treated, what are the sensitive data and how they should be protected. The perspective and the time at which this occurs is that they become different. For this reason, because it was necessary to provide the CNPD with virtually all the means that might still be lacking, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also presents, at the same time, in this discussion, the adaptation of organic legislation on the National Data Protection Commission. Bill No 120 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ), today also under discussion, identifies that this is the national supervisory authority. It is now to ensure that within the competences and responsibilities of the CNPD, those resulting both from this bill and from the General Data Protection Regulation are reflected while trying to meet some concerns that the CNPD itself has been manifesting over the years. In fact, with a different profile of intervention, which ceases to be ex ante and becomes ex post, as it has been said, the organization of CNPD services itself will have to redirect to supervision rather than to prior control, and hence also the proposal to review and revisit the organic structure that is placed on the table. We have launched a proposal, which we are available to discuss with all parliamentary groups, as regards the composition of the CNPD itself: the importance of representation or indication of members as plural as possible by strengthening the presence of a representative's designation through election by the Assembly of the Republic. We already knew that the President and two vowels were indicated by the Assembly and raised this number to three increases the possibility of greater representation and greater proportionality and plurality in the composition of the CNPD itself. We also put forward a proposal to improve the link between CNPD and the Administrative Documents Access Commission ( CADA ). It is that if it is already in the opposite direction today, that is, if one of the members of CADA is already indicated by the CNPD, it seems to us that it can make sense, in order to harmonise and improve the application of legislation — which effectively has a zone of condominium and of very intense sharing — to make this double exercise of greater symbiosis between the two institutions. In fact, many of the difficulties and many of the issues that the Regulation will put are related to public institutions. And they often deal with public institutions also about their transparency obligations, in which the data themselves that are protected by the protection of personal data may be necessary to give rise to responses in processes in which administrative transparency is involved, ensuring that people have access to relevant information about public entities. We therefore do not forget the urgency and, of course, the debate must be considered and include as many contributions as possible from the specialized entities and the CNPD itself — which has already brought us to its opinion today — but we are also aware that Parliament must give a prompt response and be able to make full application of the regulation and the internal legislation to ensure its implementation in the national order. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u25	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u26	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is obviously something that we cannot escape and which is inexorably before us, either because it is fundamental rights, or because it is a regulation of the European Union that we have to abide by — just now, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has already done us the favor of elucidating on this matter — and in that, of course, we all agree. Even I dare say, Mrs Minister, that there is no one on this subject in this Chamber who, one day, has not already faced a data problem and the abuse of the rights of certain entities in the misuse of their rights—is going to be redundancy—of data. So this is a matter that obviously has to be guarded. But there are two questions that we certainly disagree, Minister. One of them is related to the form and the other is related to the content. From now on, I would like to concentrate on the form, Mrs Minister, telling you that in this matter it is absolutely unacceptable — I am sorry to say that, with all the sympathy and respect I have for the Minister — that the Government is pressing Parliament to legislate in a matter which it has known for more than two years and in which it could have worked for more than two years. It is not acceptable, it is not understandable and it is not even understood why, Mrs Minister, because we all knew this matter, we all knew that the regulation came into force on 25 May. The regulation provided for a two-year moratorium for everyone to adapt. And what happened? The government has stood still and waited for nothing and, therefore, we are all in favour of implementation problems, which, of course, this government does not want to caution itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u28	Madam Minister, I do not imagine that, as magic, IPSSs, individuals, businesses, people — the Public Administration is not, because it is out of some things, of course, it soon caught up — they will be able to adapt, without more, because that is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u30	And, Madam Minister, you can't believe that Parliament will solve the problem in 22 days, because it won't. Mrs. Minister, it's not possible. The Government is guilty of this and the Minister should not have dealt with this. Getting into the substance of the topic, there are four or five fundamental questions, but two of them are in mind. The first, of course, has to do with differentiated treatment in relation to public administration and companies. This differentiated treatment is not understood, Minister. It is absolutely unacceptable and is even illegal, and if there is the understanding that the regulation allows this distinction — in our opinion, it does not allow — it will have the opposition of the CDS to try, in the specialty, to make that change. It was not enough for the law to apply, at any rate, to businesses and individuals, to whom it also applies and which also have sanctions, and which did not apply to the Public Administration, which has a different regime than the individual regime. This is unfair, it is unequal and will not pass with the satisfaction of at least the CDS. Therefore, Mrs Minister, it was good for them to go back to this design because what applies to companies must of course apply to the Public Administration. The second question has to do with sanctions. The question arises from the regulation and therefore there is little room for manoeuvre for the law — we have this notion — but here there are limitations related to the lack of retraining of the penalty regime to the general counter-ordering regime, which seems to us to have to be revisited, to have to be revised, and it was good that this should also be done. In the field of specialty, we will do - certainly - and we will listen to all people so that this conforms in the best way. The third question, Mrs Minister, has to do with the balance between data protection and freedom of expression and press. These are all fundamental values that the Constitution cautions and it is crucial that there is no constitutional censorship in this matter. What we have to do is this compatibility that the regulation allows and that the law does not achieve and that, frankly, it is something that scares us! There seems to be something here that I did not want to call 'previous examination' — because it reminds us of other times, and we do not like to remember — but, Madam Minister, this 'previous examination' has to be revised because the CDS will not let it go that way either. The fourth and final question has to do with details, it has to do with health data and data from justice, which are important and for which we will also have to look later on in the specialty. Finally, I would like to talk about the project that was dragged in a hurry, concerning the organic of the National Data Protection Commission, and which has two problems. The first problem is not to be adapted to the administrative and financial autonomy imposed by the Regulation. That will have to be done because the regulation imposes it and the law will have to comply. In addition, and more seriously, it will not pass by dead letter, Mrs Minister, if we do not provide the National Data Protection Commission with the necessary human resources. For years, the National Data Protection Commission has been calling for more means. Now, with the ex post supervision, which Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke about recently, it is clear that if we do not provide the National Commission for the Protection of Human Data, we will not have operational law, and that is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u31	Madam Member, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u32	Madam Minister, we would like to have your assurance here that the National Data Protection Commission will be strengthened by the human resources needed to carry out this monitoring, which is increasingly demanding, because it will be done before the finished fact and this, of course, has implications that cannot fail to guard itself. [[CDS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u33	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u34	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The General Data Protection Regulation is 2016, but the proposal we are debating today was adopted only in the Council of Ministers at the end of March and we only got to know it in April. It was too late for a matter with this dimension and impact. It would be desirable for the bill to enter into force at a relatively near date on which the regulation will enter into force, which is next 25 May. This should not happen on the sole responsibility of the Government. In addition, there is a very remarkable legislative acquis on which no adaptation, any revision and which of it is quite needed. However, it is not admissible, and the PSD will not consent, which assumes that this proposal could constitute a sort of closed envelope which the Government sent to Parliament for Members to carim it after a simulation of a debate in the specialty. We won't accept it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u36	The PSD will hold a debate on the serious specialty and on the dignity that this matter deserves, as the essence of the materiality of fundamental rights in our time. We will hear the relevant entities and experts in the various areas that can offer the contributions capable of improving this proposal. Mr Minister, if this process falls late, the proposal leaves much to be desired in its content: it is filled with indeterminate concepts; all of it is filled with 'grey areas' of interpretive turbulence; it is filled with legislative criteria not covered by the European Regulation, although they invoke it; it contains translation errors of the original of the Regulation in English — for example'subcontractor' is'subcontractor', which is inadmissible, and there are other examples, as with regard to the scope of Article 2. Article 24, paragraph 2 ( b ) ; and, as already mentioned, the Minister, there are objective restrictions on freedom of the press. the proposal that is not reflected in the GDPR regime ( General Data Protection Regulation ). Mr President and Mrs Minister, it is transversal in this proposal a logic of exemption, I would say almost of privilege, of the activity of the Public Administration, either expressly or tacitly, not only in the delay of three years in the application of fines but also in the argumentative reasons that try to sustain it. It is logical and politically wrong to make this distinction of regime, it does not support the regulation and will cause a wrong, unfair and anti-competitive differentiation in various areas of activity. The State has privileged access to the personal data of its citizens and must be the first to set an example, especially with regard to the protection of fundamental rights. It is stated in the explanatory statement that the application of this Regulation will result in high administrative charges, which are not sufficiently justified by the benefits obtained (...) ". Mr Minister, this is about forming a relatively unsuspecting economic criterion and, since we are in the field of fundamental rights, we do not apply it to public entities by this criterion, in fact, it seems extremely restrictive to us. But even worse were his own statements at the time of the submission of the proposal, when he said that the GDPR would have been considered for multinationals rather than for the public administrations of the States, since these "do not use personal data for business" — end of quote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u38	Tremendous misconceptions of yours, Minister. The reason for this regulation is to protect from the fundamental rights of citizens, regardless of the legal nature of those who may put them in danger, due to the handling of negligent or malicious personal data. Let us be clear: who are the entities that may potentially prejudice the fundamental rights of citizens by the misuse of personal data? Without a doubt, these multinationals to which the State, tax administration, tax administration and social security are also concerned, certainly. Moreover: as the opinion of the CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ) to which we had access today invokes, there is a deviation from this exemption. It says the proposal that personal data may be used by public entities for a different purpose. It can only be one more misunderstanding, Mrs Minister, first of all because the Public Administration and public entities obey the principle of the legality of tasks and competences and, in any case, personal data can only be obtained in accordance with that same interest. The Public Administration may act only on the basis of the public interest and therefore this deviation from the end is not admissible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u39	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u40	In conclusion, the concern of the PSD is to make positive contributions to improve this proposal. All we will do is that this legislative moment will not be remembered as "the law of lost opportunities" in this desirable and inevitable improvement of fundamental rights for the twenty-first century, but we were expecting more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u41	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u42	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill we are discussing today, designed to ensure the application in Portugal of the General Regulation of the European Union on the protection of personal data and the free movement of such data, arrived late and late at this House. As mentioned in the preamble in January 2012, the European Commission submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data. A long negotiating process was launched during the years 2014 and 2015 and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 27 April 2016. The entry into force of the Regulation was fixed on 25 May 2018, and on April 2018, it entered into this House with a proposal for a law to ensure its application in Portugal. It is true that there are continuity solutions between existing data protection legislation and the Regulation, which enters into force within 22 days, but the failure to adapt national legislation to the requirements of the European Union Regulation will bring undesirable uncertainties as to the applicable legal regime. In view of such a complex, extensive and undeniably important issue, since it is a matter of fundamental rights, it is not necessary for this House to discuss and approve in 15 days what the Government has taken two years to discuss and approve.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u44	Moreover, the government in this area did not hear who should. It is not acceptable for the Government to present a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data without having listened to the National Data Protection Commission, which is precisely the national data protection control authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u46	It was this House that, after the introduction of the bill on 2 April, promoted the hearing of the CNPD, whose opinion was adopted yesterday only today was given to 1. the Commission of this House. The adoption of a law on the terms of the application of the GDPR in Portugal is necessary, and it is all the more necessary because the direct application of the Regulation is likely to generate a situation of legal uncertainty which is undesirable in various areas. But this House cannot be required to abdicate its duty to debate this matter with the weighting required by its extent and complexity and it cannot be required for parliamentary groups to approve any bill, regardless of merit on its content. It happens that it's a bad bill. The Regulation was designed and built for the protection of citizens against the processing of large-scale personal data by large companies and information society services, seeking to cover large multinationals that manage social networks or large-scale computer applications, involving the collection and intensive use of personal data. Therefore, his constant solutions do not regard the characteristics of the national economic fabric and are disproportionate, or even inadequate, to the generality of small and medium-sized enterprises or even to the Portuguese Public Administration. On the other hand, when the massive processing of personal data requires enhanced guarantees of the fundamental rights of citizens and an increased intervention by the State to ensure them, what is proposed is a reduction in the intervention of the State on behalf of a supposed self-regulation which, as always, eventually translates into deregulation. Moreover, in the margin of decision which the Regulation itself refers to for legislative options of the Member States, the Government proposal contains, according to CNPD, solutions of « vague and open content, failing to provide specific rules for the aspects of the scheme on which it affects ». For us, we say that the proposal contains, in several respects, solutions that are not acceptable: this is the case with the processing of health data, in which the creation of centralized health databases is admitted without taking into account the sensitive nature of the processing of such data and the legal protection that should be given them; it is the case with video surveillance, where the proposed regime is very much less than what is required; this is the case with access to administrative documents; this is the case with the processing of data in labor relations; this is the case with the processing of biometric data; this is the case with the processing of data for the purposes of freedom of expression and information. There are many cases, which the time available for this debate does not even allow us to state, and there are many cases that oblige us to say that, from our point of view, this bill must be rejected. If this bill goes down to the committee for discussion on the subject, we hope that there will be a lot of work in this House in order to correct aspects which are deeply negative in the proposal before us, and it would be desirable that, since the regulation is in force, the legislation which ensures its implementation would have just and appropriate solutions to the Portuguese reality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u47	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. State Secretarys : As has already been said, and we associate ourselves with this observation, this bill contains a vast set of solutions that seem to us to deserve clear correction, of which I will mention only a few, because time is what it is. First, as regards the differentiated treatment between public and private entities, the Minister stressed that the regulation itself allows it to be so. Well, there are red lines that really cannot be exceeded, and I would like to point out one: that precisely the hypothesis of data processing by public entities is different from the one whose purpose justified its collection, provided the public interest is concerned, is for us anything that deserves immense reservations and even some fear, because whatever public interest, of course, depends heavily on the entity that is justifying or using the public interest clause. For us, it is a red line that we are not available to overcome. As has already been said, the exemption from fines for three years is not a reality that is justified in the light of the regulation itself, because this allows it to be so, it is true, but not to think of cases such as Portuguese, which since 91 has a system of fines for public entities. Secondly, I would like to point out: as regards the change of the ex ante surveillance model to ex post, it follows from the application of the Regulation, therefore there is nothing to do. However, it is important to significantly strengthen the response capacities of the Portuguese supervisory authority, which is the National Data Protection Commission. from this point of view, we believe that the draft law submitted by the Socialist Party is quite different from what would be necessary, namely in relation to the consecration of administrative and financial autonomy and explicit forecasting of significant reinforcement of CNPD frameworks. The third aspect concerns centralized databases for health data. As has already been mentioned, this is something that is absolutely unacceptable, because the forecast to remain on a single platform gives us no guarantee, on the contrary, gives us every reason to fear the worst. Finally, the last point that I would stress, among so many others that it is worth stressing, is about the sanctioning regime, which, by setting minimum limits, allows, for example, that from the entry into force of the law natural persons become subject to lighter penalties than those that occurred with the application of the current law on the protection of personal data. In fact, the intervals set out in the law are so broad that we believe they will cause constitutional problems with regard to the legal fixation of the fine. Therefore, Madam Minister, to make everything very clear: we will not be opposed to the adoption of this proposal, but we must depend on our final vote on the introduction of very significant amendments, some of which, as I have said, are for us insurmountable red lines. Therefore, we will endeavour - we will - so that there is a work in the rigorous, stopped specialty, capable of significantly improving this proposal, but if we find that much of the solutions are maintained and there is no significant change in content...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u49	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, in that case, of course, we cannot follow the final outcome. That's it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u51	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In order to conclude the debate, very telegraphically, we agree with the assessment, which is undeniable, that a paradigm change with impact on the structures that are responsible for the application of this Regulation, in particular in the CNPD, will obviously have to be accompanied by a strengthening of the reaction capacity to those who are the new competences. But let us also not forget that the fact that the form of supervision ceases to be ex ante and becomes ex post also means the release of resources allocated today to this type of evaluation that can be rearranged, and what we put in our bill is precisely the attempt to reorganize and give the lead to the path that follows. On the other hand, the issue of resources is also relevant. This is, there is a relevant amount of resources that were generated by revenue own of the entity, resulting from the activity it carried out, with which, obviously, it can no longer count, since previous processes disappear. On this subject, the Assembly, perhaps not in this legislative headquarters but at the seat of the body responsible for the approval of the CNPD budget, because it is an entity in its orbit, will certainly also have to address, at the same time with the question of the staff map and the staff table, which is also placed there. However, Mr José Manuel Pureza, on the question of administrative and financial autonomy, at this stage we have not made a deep cut with what is the practice in relation to the various entities similar to the CNPD that operate in the orbit of the Assembly. I believe that it can even be positive and useful to have this debate, and this may even be the time, but in fact, we are running against time to ensure a clear definition of the competences of the entity, with full openness to an improvement of the diploma, for the improvement of what is there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are also available to address the fundamental objections, which we understand and to which we are receptive. In conclusion, Mr President, I just want to point out that, in my view, the solutions contained in the proposal for a law are in fact going along the path of good legislative technique in the field of fundamental rights: trying not to create excessively divided and closed solutions, to have standards that fit and give space to the weighting and balance of various fundamental rights in the presence, which, of course, must also be reflected in the way we articulate the competences of each of the entities. We reiterate the fundamental importance of the entry into force of the law as soon as possible, but this cannot undermine the quality of legislative work. We are available for a complex exercise and, for the same reason, we are quick, yet, to deepen the quality of the diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u55	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate of Bill No 120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We are in a position to move to the third point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring to the Assembly of the Republic concerns 15 tax benefits contained in the Statute for Tax Benefits ( EBF ) and which expired in December 2016. in this sense, what the government did was to prepare a report on these 15 tax benefits in which we identified the tax expenditure associated with them and presented a bill to revoke three of these tax benefits: one of them for abuse and two dealing with revenue from municipal taxes. in this sense, we propose the repeal of three tax benefits, at the same time that, in relation to the other set, we propose its extension on a transitional basis. With regard to five of the tax benefits, the proposal is in the sense of a change in the sense that we have data for those which allow us to model these tax benefits, and there is justification for maintaining them until 31 December 2019. For the other seven tax benefits we also propose the same extension until 31 December 2019. This extension is proposed on a transitional basis precisely because the Government's approach in this area is a prudent approach precisely because we have chosen to do an in-depth study of the entire tax benefit system in order to make a structural approach to this matter. That is why, at this stage, we have only one intermediate step, which leads us precisely to an extension, with a transitional basis, of these tax benefits and the structural approach is justified because the value of the associated tax expenditure gives us 10 billion reasons to do a very thorough work on this subject and that is what is being discussed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u57	The Bureau shall record two entries for requests for clarification. In the meantime, I am informed that Mr. Secretary of State will answer together. To this end, first of all, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, the Portuguese tax system has numerous tax benefits, which every year mean a loss of tax revenue of about 10 billion, as Mr. Secretary of State said here. Only in IRC ( corporate income tax ), which is corporate profit tax, are 1000 million in 2016, a large part of these benefits belonging to Madeira's free zone. For a long time, the Left Block has been beating for greater discipline in the allocation of these tax benefits. If in some cases, such as in the taxation of real estate funds, it was possible to eliminate unjustified privileges, in other cases, such as that of Madeira's free zone, it has not been possible, although we know that Madeira's free zone exists for fictitious companies to benefit from exemption from IRC or lower rates. The Government has now presented to the House an analysis of 15 of these tax benefits which would lapse if they were not extended, hence their assessment. The principle of assessing tax benefits is a good principle, we follow it and hope it can continue. What we do not see in this bill is a real will to limit tax and disciplinary benefits. And there are a number of these benefits which the Government intends to extend which raise huge doubts and some of which we oppose in front of us. There are tax exemptions for deposits, credits and incomes of swaps when made by foreign credit institutions. For us, it is a benefit that makes no sense that when a contractwap is made without us finding out whether it is a speculative contract or not, the incomes of these swap contracts are exempt from tax, when in the other financial operations people pay their taxes on financial income. There is another benefit that makes little sense: why underground parking parks are free to pay IMI (municipal property tax) for 15 years? And here it doesn't matter whether or not it passes this right to the authorities, it is an incentive that should not exist and that makes no sense that it exists. There are still rules on these benefits that make little sense. Why does a donation to an NGO (non-governmental organization) to a community, to a charity institution have a tax benefit that is less than that of a donor to a church? If they are donors, if we recognize meritorious work, should not donors be equal, have the same benefit, without this discrimination that makes little sense? But there is a fiscal incentive and a benefit that is particularly scandalous and that the government does not resolve this bill. This is Article 19. that of the Tax Benefit Statute, which allows to reduce in IRC 150 % of the costs with the hiring of long-term unemployed or young people seeking first employment. at this time, it is worth 40 million in the Financial Benefits Statute and, in the beginning, it may seem to be a worthwhile benefit, since after all it is an incentive to hire long-term unemployed, which can even help small businesses and young people seeking first employment. It's 40 million in 2016! But when we see the list of who benefited from this article 19. the EBF, we have in mind the TAP, the Banco de Portugal, the Pingo Doce, the supermarkets Dia, the Teleperformance, which is a temporary and precarious business, the Lidl, the EDP Distribution, the Galp Energy. These are the companies that are benefiting from the tax benefit worth 40 million a year. If we were to add, for example, a period of five years, which were the companies that most benefited from this Article 19. the EBF, we found that the Pingo Doce took 36 million in tax bonds, the BPI took 28 million, the TAP took 19 million, the BCP took 18 million, the MEO took 17 million, the Barclays took 17 million, the Continent model took 17 million, the EDP took 15 million, security companies, like Prosecure, took 10 million, and the Banco de Portugal — imagine! — 10 million tax benefits for the recruitment of young people for the first job.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u59	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u60	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It's not acceptable! It is not acceptable that we continue to extend this benefit which seems to be no more than a tax bill to large companies and that this bill does not change. Mr President, I know I've been beyond my time, but I wanted to ask one last question. The Left Block knows that there is a report from the General Inspection of Finance, prepared in 2015, that recognized problems in the non-taxation regime of unusual residents and left recommendations for amendment to this regime. I wonder why this report has not been followed up and whether the Government will send that report to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u61	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, the Government is presenting to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal to extend the validity of certain tax benefits. Among them is a tax benefit to job creation, which, as a government option, continues to apply to large companies. The CFP does not oppose the extension of this tax benefit since it is confined to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as it does not oppose that the benefit may be more expressive for SMEs located within the country or that it may be increased in the case of young people seeking the first job and long-term unemployed, but we cannot accept that this tax benefit, which would expire on 1 July, will remain in force also for large enterprises. We cannot accept that companies such as Pingo Doce, EDP, BPI, Hospital da Luz or Autoeuropa benefit from an additional tax reduction when, in reality, the path should be exactly the opposite, the most appropriate taxation of large companies and economic groups. [[Congrats from the CFP.]] This tax benefit granted to large companies means less tax revenue for the State, taxes that are then needed to respond to the problems of the people and the country. The Government also makes the option in the proposed law to Parliament to maintain tax benefits for the financial system and the capital market, which represent tens of millions of euros of tax expenditure annually. In addition, ending this unjustified blessing would disturb the functioning of the financial system, so there would be no other solution than to maintain the tax benefit indefinitely. The CFP does not follow this view and believes that the path must be inverse, that of the immediate elimination of the tax benefits attributed to the financial system and capital markets, which the Government, with this bill, insists on not going through. Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, how does the Government justify maintaining tax benefits for large businesses and the financial system, while at the same time calling for budgetary constraints to avoid further reduction in taxes affecting labour income and household consumption? Mr Secretary of State, is the government available to drop the tax benefits to large companies and the financial system? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u63	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mariana Mortágua and Mr. Paulo Sá, thank you for the questions you have raised. I think it's important that we need where we are. The Government has committed itself to the Assembly of the Republic to submit a report on 15 specific tax benefits and, at the same time, on the basis of the conclusions, to submit a bill, which must be discussed with Parliament. Our initial concern was to make it available to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the same level of information we have in order to be able to assess, in particular, these 15 tax benefits. We have also said — and that seems to us to make sense — that we need to make a more structural assessment of the entire tax benefit system in order precisely to enable Parliament to have a degree of information that the government does not currently have on all the tax benefits. Our objective, therefore, in bringing the proposal here, was to bring a prudent proposal, without prejudice to what might happen following the discussion on the conclusions of the working group report that is in force. But clearly, I want to present here the government's willingness to talk about each of the 15 tax benefits and I do not have time to talk about everyone today. however, I think it is important to focus on the following: the government does not want to give any benefit to the bank. What the Government wants is to guarantee the financing of the Portuguese economy under the best possible conditions. Therefore, the proposal presented here concerning tax benefits in the financial area is a proposal that has anti-abuse standards that allow, precisely that, that is, what benefits they serve to benefit the economy and the Portuguese are not to benefit the financial sector. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to record this point, that of our willingness to discuss point-by-point, and we will certainly improve the proposal, which will certainly be better, and the honourable Members. Members now have more information to assess it than they had before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u65	Mr Hortense Martins now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We welcome the serious attitude of the government, seeking to carry out a thorough work. We welcome this attitude and the Government's proposed law, which has, above all, a transitional nature that it is important to highlight, given that it was the undertaking assumed, to make a thorough assessment of the tax benefits, which is, in fact, still under way, the 10 billion reasons which Mr Secretary of State referred to. It should also be noted that this bill was accompanied by the report requested by the Assembly of the Republic to the Government with the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the tax benefits contained in these 15 articles, so that this assessment could contribute to the weighting of its cessation, modification or extension. In fact, through the State Budget itself for 2018 it was stated that until March 2018 a bill should be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic with the implementation of the conclusions resulting from this report. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all read the report. It was also determined that the validity of the 15 tax benefits referred to would be extended until the date of the entry into force of the corresponding rules contained in the diploma that would be approved, expiring from that time those that were not subject to extension or all of them, if the diploma did not enter into force on 1 July 2018. We must admit that this is a work that needs to be done in depth, because the report, as it is mentioned in the report, only makes a comprehensive assessment of the tax expenditure data associated with each tax benefit and the number of beneficiaries covered. It even admits that the Government that this is clearly insufficient, which we, as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, are accompanying, because there are significant limitations on the available indicators. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now believe that this is a work that requires a serious and in-depth analysis and I believe that all of us in this Chamber understand this, in order to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of the tax benefits that are granted, as regards their real impact, to the assessment of distortions or even the good capacity of the effectiveness of the objectives pursued. We are also aware of the cross-sectional nature of the 15 tax benefits that are today, here, under consideration for a transitional extension until 2019. But there is also a need to analyze the benefits that are not subject to expiry and those that are contained in avulsive legislation or those whose creation is outside the Tax Benefit Statute itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that the government has already set up the multidisciplinary working group to study the current tax benefit system, with a view to conducting an integrated assessment of the effectiveness of these benefits. This assessment necessarily includes a generic and abstract analysis of the costs and benefits resulting from the achievement of the non-fiscal objectives pursued in the light of the current situation in which they are inserted, providing indicative elements to assess whether the tax revenue to which the State waives, on behalf of the options assumed in the spectrum of the tax benefits currently in force, justifies their maintenance or whether, on the contrary, other policy instruments should be equationed. That is what the government has undertaken to do. In fact, we agree that we must assess this adequacy as regards the economic and social purposes that have justified and substantiated the creation of each particular tax benefit. We must also not forget the need for the stability of legislation in this area and even the principle of simplification so that it can be accessible to all its recipients, as I believe it is established in the recommendations of the State's administrative modernization. We recognize that, in this bill, the Government has already reflected, although on a transitional basis, some changes that have been identified, in its view, to improve efficiency and introduce certain principles of justice in the application of tax benefits. Nor can we ignore the negative effects that the expiry of some might bring in objective terms, particularly as far as job creation is concerned, which has always been a key touchstone for this government. The Prime Minister has already said it and repeated it: our priority is employment, more and better employment. There are 300 000 jobs created under this government. in my opinion, in this work we cannot fail to take account of the Portuguese business fabric, consisting mainly of micro and small enterprises, and we do not ignore the effects that this has on the local and national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u67	Mrs. Deputy's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. in a world in great changes, we must be able to strengthen our competitiveness, attract young people to the interior of the country, improve territorial and social cohesion, and this must also be one of the objectives to take into account. That is why, and involving the transitional basis that we have here in mind, we welcome the Government and hope for the opening of parliamentary groups to continue to discuss this proposal in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u69	For an intervention, Mr Virgílio Macedo of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate of this bill should lead us to a wider debate on all derogations from the general rules of taxation. Tax benefits are always derogations from the general rules which bring tax advantages to some taxpayers, while temporarily suspending such important principles of our tax system as the principle of contribution capacity and the principle of tax equality. the concept of tax benefit should always be, but always, associated a characteristic of exceptionality, and the tax benefit should always be limited in time, under the penalty of this benefit itself ceases to be the exception and become the rule, clearly distorting one of its characteristics. With the introduction of this initiative, the Government has also announced the establishment of a working group to study the current tax benefit system, which aims at an analysis of the cost-benefit of each individual, as well as the assessment of the achievement or not of the extrafiscal objectives inherent to each one. It is an intention that it will not necessarily be conditional on an analysis based solely on maximizing tax revenue. It is an intention that it should focus on cost-benefit analysis to the existence of tax benefits themselves. But over the past three and a half years of this government, the presentation of this initiative is still a missed opportunity. What should be debated today was a possible change in the paradigm of our tax system, the end of some tax inequalities between taxpayers and, at the same time, the reduction of basic tax rates for all taxpayers. What we should also be discussing today was the reduction of the tax burden as a whole and not its increase, even indirectly. We could and should be more ambitious. The IRS and IRC codes have been established for about 30 years. After successive changes, our tax system became more complex, more dense and, because you do not say it, more opaque than it would be desirable. It is imperative that we turn our tax system into a simple system, and when we do it we also make it more fair and effective. The awkwardness of laws, decrees, tax codes, statutes that any taxpayer, individual or collective, faces today is an obstacle to the desirable transparency of the tax system, just as it is undoubtedly a factor generating context costs. At the same time, it is undeniable that we have high base tax rates, that our tax effort is above the average of the European Union and continues to increase, and often in order to alleviate all this excessive taxation, tax benefits are created, which are derogations from the principles of equal taxation, which should always be the touchstone. It would therefore be important and much more transparent that we restrict the concept of tax benefit and minimize its existence; that we have a much more limited view of the concept of tax benefit, in the name of this equality among all taxpayers, without exception; that its creation and nature were indeed of exceptional character and that they had always underlying clear and transparent assumptions; that its validity in time was effectively temporary, limited, and not as it happens today, in which many of these benefits last for an indefinite, almost indefinite time; and, finally, that they have the courage to have a more competitive basic tax system, that it is more friendly to investment, that the focus is not always the exponential gain of tax revenue but, yes, the fulfilment of the principle of contributing capacity and that the fulfilment of that principle is more than a principle, is a reality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u71	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u72	Mr. President. Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The tax system, especially in the taxation of companies, must have as virtues stability and competitiveness. It happens that the discussion we have here today and the whole context in which we are showing it that, especially with regard to the first of these virtues, Portugal is far from fulfilling what must be the objective of a tax policy for taxation of companies. Then—it is not a question of this or that government—we discussed benefits, as has already been said, derogations from the general regime, we are always discussing the exception and we forget to discuss the essentials. What makes the Portuguese economy competitive is not the exception, it is the rule. The rule is that you're wrong. We have a high corporate tax rate for what should be the competitiveness of our economy. We look at our partners and it is clear that all those who grow more than we do — unfortunately, even in this positive environment, are the ones who grow more than we do — have a tax rate of less than we have. Therefore, a good discussion on this subject would be a discussion of the elimination of tax benefits, it is true, of reducing tax expenditure, it is true, of reducing taxes, and they told the honourable Members. Members, then, to reduce the revenue. Not necessarily. That's the point. Competitiveness is precisely why. If we succeed in lowering the rates at a level where we can compensate for the decrease in initial revenue with revenue that we get by attracting new investment we are gaining the competitiveness that otherwise we do not have. We continue to discuss the benefit, except the exception is a way forward to continue not to achieve this competitiveness that we needed. It is true that with the report that is now brought here, and especially with the one that proceeds from what is now known, we have opened the way for a deeper discussion on each of the tax benefits, and that is good.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u73	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u74	It is insufficient with the report we have. A quantitative analysis and, above all, a partial quantitative analysis is very little, we need a qualitative analysis to realize cost-benefit what is actually needed. But, Mr Secretary of State, having opened up to discuss in the specialty each of them—because we have different opinions on each of these tax benefits—the CDS has to itself very clearly the fundamental position in this matter and has presented its proposal in all State budgets so that it may be so. at this moment, with such a positive situation, we should be taking advantage of it in order to gain the competitiveness that we have not had at other times, in order to have the investment that we have not had at other times and that we still do not have, for our companies to have more strength, which still do not have, in markets where they should have and above all, to have an even greater effect on the labour market than that which will be the increase in investment and which could have as a result this greater hiring of workers, in order to have a competitive system, a strong employment and, above all, an economy that resists changes in the environment. This would have meant that we had taken a structural step at the time we were living, which we think this government is afraid of not being able to contribute to it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u75	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Tax Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tax benefits are exceptional. They are created to achieve relevant extrafiscal objectives and considered superior to those of the taxation itself that prevent them. As they result in a loss of tax revenue and at the same time suspend the application of the principle of equal taxation, their creation and maintenance must meet the very demanding criteria of tax justice. But that's not what happened! in fact, within the framework of a fiscal policy for the promotion of large capital, tax benefits have been used as an additional instrument for the reduction of taxes to large companies and economic groups, in a situation where the basic taxation of these companies and economic groups is manifestly insufficient by itself. There is an excessive concentration of tax benefits in IRC and, within this tax, an excessive concentration in a small number of large companies. A paradigmatic example of tax promotion for large companies was the allocation in 2012 of more than EUR 1000 million of tax benefits to companies managing social equity, which the former Government, PSD / CDS, quite conveniently omitted from the State General Account. The CFP does not, of course, oppose the existence of fiscal benefits that pursue meritorious and duly justified extra-fiscal objectives, such as, for example, tax benefits to encourage job creation in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but we completely reject that the tax benefits can be used to favour large capital, allowing it to pay even less taxes than those that would result from the application of the rule of taxation system, which, we insist, already favours large capital itself. For the CFP there is no justification for large companies such as Pingo Doce, EDP or BPI to continue to benefit from tax reductions through a tax benefit to encourage job creation as there is no justification for maintaining tax benefits to the financial system and capital markets. But that is exactly what the Government wants to do by extending the validity of these tax benefits, which would otherwise expire on 1 July. This is an option that the PCP does not follow. We defend, as we have always done, an alternative fiscal policy, a policy that, by ensuring the financing of the State and the fulfilment of its functions, in particular of social functions, dishonors workers, families and small businesses and, at the same time, adequately taxes the large capital. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u77	I need to ask if any parliamentary group that still has time available wishes to use the word. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I sincerely hope that we can start, in the specialty, a demanding cleaning of the various tax benefits—some are in the EBF ( Statute of Tax Benefits ), others are spread by other codes. These 15 are the beginning and the Left Block has already told us what our main problems are with regard to these benefits. One of them has to do with large companies benefiting from Article 19. that of the supposed incentive to create jobs, which is, in fact, a tax brokerage to the big companies in this country. But there is another issue that, for us, is important and so I asked Mr. Secretary of State a question. There is a benefit that already has an internal evaluation, which is the regime of unusual residents. It has been informed the Left Block Parliamentary Group that the General Financial Inspection will already have a report on this benefit in particular and an assessment since 2015, where not only the existence of a non-taxation, and not double taxation, but also recommendations to amend this scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. It was important to realize, because this is one of the important tax benefits that must be eliminated and which, in fact, give a very bad reputation to the country, one, because none of these recommendations were followed up and, two, if the Government will send Parliament this internal assessment that was made on the regime of non-standard residents. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I am in a position to give the floor to close the debate, in the time available, which is not very much to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : You will understand that, as soon as I have the opportunity, I will limit myself to what is being discussed here. I begin by saying that I am very pleased to note that for all the benches it is welcome the study we are doing in relation to the entire tax benefit system. Mr. Virgílio Macedo, allow me just to tell you that we have not been distracted for three and a half years. For three and a half years, we eliminated the overtax of IRS, we reversed the rate of IRC inside, we lowered the IRS for families with medium and low incomes, we lowered the rate of VAT of restoration, we made the fall of the PEC (Special Account Payment) for companies — just to give some examples. We are now creating a margin for Parliament to have detailed information on the entire tax benefit system, because, as I said in the initial intervention, tax expenditure gives us 10 billion reasons to be able to look seriously and rigorously at this very matter. That is what we will do in the system of tax benefits, in a general way, and that is what we will do during the discussion on the specialty, in which we will make all the contribution that Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen will understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u83	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on today's agenda, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 1481/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mechanism for the allocation of a provisional blood price pension ( PSD ). To present the legislative initiative, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 18 June 2017, Sergeant-Assist Paiva Benido, at the service of the European Union Training Mission in Mali, died due to injuries inflicted in confrontation with terrorists following a jihadist attack at a resort in that country. Despite falling heroically and in the fulfilment of duty, only nearly a year back was, as far as we were able to ascertain, issued a favourable order on 26 March, which assigns a provisional pension until the calculation and deferral of the value of the definitive blood price pension to which the widow and the minor children are entitled. Now, questioned by the parliamentary leader of the PSD on this matter in the 15th of April debate, i.e. more than a week later, Mr. Prime Minister, apparently ignoring the order, replied that the delay in the allocation was due "to the complexity of the whole bureaucratic process". Despite this grueling contradiction, it is welcomed that, although still provisionally, if it is in the process of mitigating the difficult financial situation of that family. But, in the face of all this, we are new perplexity: then, and the other similar cases and without due media attention? How are they treated? Now, this is just a new episode of a repeated practice with all those who at the service of the homeland lose their lives and who unnecessarily aggravate the family tragedy with the financial shortages they carry. We all know that the military condition is a fundamental value because it implies permanent availability and acceptance of risk, which are the essences of Castrian life. in this case, she involved the loss of her own life in a combat situation. But the military condition implies, on the other hand, that the State fulfils all its obligations before those who choose the career of weapons in defense of the homeland, under the penalty of contributing to loosening the confidence and commitment that the military always generously places in their missions. And the same could be said for security or civil protection officers, their demanding missions and the potential risk they entail. It was Decree-Law No. 466 / 99 of 6 November, which came to regulate the allocation of blood price pensions. However, in the face of laxity, we should all be ashamed that the State is not able to give a prompt response to these cases. We feel ashamed of this situation and it is right, in view of the memory of those who died and their families, to ask our humble apologies here. [[PSD applause.]] We have therefore been here today to recommend to the Government that it study and find an effective mechanism to allow beneficiaries to shorten the waiting time and to allow them to receive, within a maximum of 30 days after death, a provisional pension, which will be the target of success at the conclusion of the final pension award process. But what we propose should be for everyone and cannot be dependent on media attention! Of course, in view of the relevance of this matter, we hope to be accompanied in this our claim by the entire House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u85	Since there are no inscriptions, let's move on to the next item on our agenda... [[Pause.]] For an intervention on the assessment of draft resolution No 1481/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr Nuno Sá, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first words are to pay tribute, acknowledge and thank the great service provided to Portugal and the world by all women and men who gave their lives and who shed their blood in representation and service to the country for the most just and human causes, as was the case of Sergeant-Assist Paiva Benido, victim of a terrorist attack in Mali in June 2017. With a spirit of mission and bravery, he died in the service of Portugal. The Portuguese feel proud and honor for their memories. We also express our gratitude and solidarity to all the families, comrades and friends of those who died at the service of the Nation, in particular the military of the security forces and firemen. Thus, the State, through the Public Administration and its agents, has to support and respond swiftly to the rights of families facing the loss of those who have lost their lives at the service of that same State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u88	Indeed, one cannot accept the morbidity and successive bureaucratic difficulties in the allocation and payment of blood pensions. We realize that, in many specific cases, we are talking about complex and difficult realities for establishing links of causality and responsibilities, such as the cases of deaths in terrorist or war scenarios in foreign countries. Nevertheless, the memory and sacrifice of our fellow citizens, the needs of their families and their rights must compel us, the powers and administration of the State to give more effective and swift answers. The Socialist Party is convinced and knows that this is also a concern of the Government, who is aware of the complexity of the matter and the causes of morbidity, because it is not conformed, sharing many of the concerns expressed here and everything will do, we are sure, to speed up and confer, in due course, the right to blood pensions, as I said, indeed, the Prime Minister himself in this Parliament, still very recently. But this willingness to confer justice and enforce rights should not lead us to precipitation or errors with legislation that does not immediately serve the beneficiaries of pensions themselves. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: to make it clear that the proposal that the PSD here brings us could lead to hasty payments and, even then, to have the General Pension Fund requiring pensions from families, because the General Pension Fund can only start to pay the blood pension after the competent military institution has taken over the causal link between death and the performance of functions at the service of the Portuguese State, which often leads to difficult trials, such as autopsies required to foreign entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u89	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u90	in this sense, what the PSD proposes — and I will finish, Mr President — is to assign a provisional pension which will be right later, at the conclusion of the investigation process, which could lead to errors and injustices that do not serve either the families or the State. The solution is to take on the challenge of doing better and faster, to overcome the difficulties of the necessary diligences to establish links of causality and responsibilities and to overcome, in particular, irregularities and bureaucratic barriers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u91	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year of waiting for a blood pension is indeed unacceptable. It is an insult to the family, it is an insult to those who died in the service of the State and it should not simply happen. This is the first point on which I believe all the benches will agree. I would also like to say that this waiting time is not only unpublished in these matters of blood pension, nor is it exclusive in the areas of defense. Today, we have delays in payments of survivors' pensions to the widows of the civil regime, delays, which quickly reach one year. Mr. Pedro Roque, we cannot fail to point out that his bench, which has militantly assumed the destruction of the State and the capacity of the State as the central task of its political action, is now going to hit his hand on his chest and cry out to the intervention of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u94	They were going to destroy the state and the ability to solve people's problems and now they say « ai, ai, ai, that the state here is not». Mr President, you should be a little more ashamed when you do that kind of intervention. That said, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the problem must be solved, but while we agree with the identification of the problem, that is, the waiting time for the allocation of these pensions, we must not fail to mention that the allocation of a provisional pension will necessarily have implications which can be adjusted in order to continue. That is, the allocation of a provisional pension may, within a short period of time, imply the return of amounts to the General Pension Fund, which places the widow or widow of the blood pension in an extremely sensitive social situation. So we do not share the path here is being identified as the solution to the problem. It would be better if we had more intervention capacity in the General Board of Appeals so that the bureaucratic process and the diligences were made in time, so that we did not have this waiting time for the allocation of this type of pension in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u95	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group generally agrees with the draft resolution submitted by the PSD to create a legal mechanism for the rapid allocation by the State of a provisional blood pension to the families of firemen, military and other security forces at the country's service until the final and regular completion of the process. This recommendation follows that, almost one year after a Portuguese military service to a European Union mission in Mali had been killed by rebel forces, their family members had not yet received the so-called 'blood price pension'. The Left Block deeply regrets this death, which should not have happened. Nor does it cease to be incomprehensible and very regrettable that the State, involved in the fabric of the bureaucracy, has not yet allocated the pension due to the family, since, in the next month of June, it will last a year in which the death of this military occurred. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u97	It is noted that Mali is a very dangerous country that has been in a state of emergency since November 2015, when there was an attack in Bamako that caused 20 deaths. Despite the agreement signed between the Malian Government, the Tuareg separatist rebels and the pro-government armed militia, the situation remains very unstable, with ongoing attacks and attacks, such as in the Central African Republic, Iraq and Afghanistan, where there are also Portuguese soldiers. It should be recalled that in 25 years since 1992 20 national military personnel have already died on foreign missions of Portuguese forces, therefore almost one military per year. This is not the way to combat terrorism either at the service of the European Union, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) or the United Nations ( United Nations ). Moreover, it is in this way that Portugal participates in organizations such as NATO and collaborates with countries such as the United States of America, France and England, which, with their war actions, unfortunately, have promoted war itself and terrorism. Here are the sad examples of Iraq and Libya. The Left Block rejects Portugal's participation in the so-called 'denominated national forces', as nothing has contributed to peace. Recently, another contingent of troops was sent to Lithuania to serve NATO for more dangerous maneuvers of anti-Russian war games. These missions, in addition to their patent warfare, increase superfluous defence spending and may lead to potential risks of victimizing our military. The PSD should have the courage to propose, such as the CDS and, now, the PS, that Portugal no longer participate in external missions within the framework of the national highlighted forces, but the courage to do so does not exist. Anyway, and in conclusion, the Left Block defends the allocation of the blood price pension to whom it is entitled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u98	Mr João Rebelo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to highlight the remarkable work of our military serving the Portuguese flag on outstanding national missions, on the African, American and Asian continents, with an absolutely remarkable professionalism, so I associate myself with the words mentioned by the honourable Members. Members of the various parliamentary groups on this matter. unlike some insinuations made here, the Portuguese soldiers are not on missions that promote war, they are on missions that promote peace and stability. I remember that, both in Mali and in the Central African Republic, at the risk of their lives, we have Portuguese soldiers who protect defenseless populations from gang attacks or other forces that attempt to harm them. On the other hand, we agree with the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, a draft resolution aimed at promoting a mechanism for the allocation of a provisional blood price pension. And in good time, then, if we were waiting for such mechanisms as this proposed by the Socialist Party, we would never see them again. The reservations that have been put here make no sense, because we are talking about blood pensions for elements of the Armed Forces, but also for security forces and services, whose deaths or serious injuries have exactly come from this exercise. Therefore, in this specific case of Sergeant-Assistant Paiva Benido, who was on an international mission in Mali, was a terrorist attack. There is absolutely no doubt about the reasons why he died. We are not talking about an accident that happened on the Portuguese road in any situation that has nothing to do with the functions it performs, we are talking about exactly something that happens in the performance of the functions of the military, security forces or other forces that are defending the people or on mission. The bureaucracy, which is dominant in Portugal and which kills the spirit of many laws which are adopted here, must deserve Parliament, of all, condemnation and special attention so that we can reverse this process that leads to so much bureaucracy and that makes the family of Paiva Benido, at the moment, has not yet benefited from the pension. It is a shame for the Portuguese State, regardless of which government is in office, that this happens. It's a shame! I believe that this mechanism is positive, that it can end the shame and stain that is happening in this case and that this will be corrected so that it will not happen again in future cases, because we have military that will continue, and well, in national forces highlighted. And we support the continuation of these forces, as well as the security forces and services involved in missions. Although there may be missions that may not be as dangerous as those that took place in Mali or the Central African Republic, which are completely unstable territories due to terrorist acts, there are other missions, such as those that take place in the Mediterranean to help migrants who have problems on their ships, to rescue people who are in difficulty or other types of problems, which can also be difficult and dangerous. If there is any misfortune in the course of these missions, the victims' families have no help from the State because of bureaucratic aspects. It's a shame this happens! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by approving this project, we give a sign that Parliament does not appear before bureaucracy and before laws that are not applied by institutions that should serve the Portuguese and unfortunately do not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u100	Mrs. Members, exhausted from the speeches to this item, we can move on to the next item on our agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 781 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, recognizing the possibility of mutual resignation to legal heir to the Convention ( PS ). To present the legislative initiative of the PS, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese succession regime is characterized by a limited power of disposition for each of them over their own inheritance, which is realized in the regime of legitimate succession. This was first the option of the 1966 Civil Code, which was added, and well in the 1977 revision, a strengthening of the protection of the surviving spouse through the inclusion of the surviving spouse in the list of legitimate heirs and in the same position of children. This legislative initiative does not want to call into question that this regime continues to be the rule, but we must take into account the change in the social reality of the last 40 years, in particular the frequency of situations in which families integrate children from previous relations, which advises that these rules should be introduced with greater possibility of conformation, i.e. freedom to remove that rule. in the project currently being presented, a scheme is created that will only apply to whom it opts, in the future and before marriage, at the anti-nuptal convention. It is possible that, in that convention, and as long as marriage is subject to the separation property regime, there will be mutual resignation to the status of legal heir. As I said, this solution will not alter the successive arrangements of anyone who is currently married, nor will it probably alter the arrangements that will apply to most families who will form themselves by marriage after their approval, since the rule is not changed. For those for whom the successive effects of marriage represent a difficulty, especially for those who, having children, want to avoid the conflict of heritage interests between the spouse and children, for them there is a possibility of choice. Our Civil Code has always allowed the option for a property separation regime that limits the heritage effects of marriage in life. With this initiative, this faculty will extend-CL to the effects of death marriage. It is a space of freedom of conformation, through a free and conscious choice, which we consider justified to introduce because it is more appropriate for the reality of new times and new generations. As a result of the solution presented, the regime for the reduction of liberalities is also amended, allowing provisions for the spouse to the limit of what would be the sum of his or her legitimate quota with the available quota, i.e. allowing each spouse to respond to the other's successive situation as a voluntary act. We believe that the proposed solution is balanced, that it does not structurally alter our successive right, until we are sure that the social consensus for this structural change exists, and that it improves this successive right by introducing a mechanism for the exercise of personal freedom and that therefore meets the interests of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u102	Mr Carlos Peixoto, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law submitted by the PS is a good starting point, but we think it still needs to take a few steps, and the right steps, up to the point of arrival, which is the integral adequacy of the successive regime to the new social reality and also to the new forms of family that society has adopted. We all know that the logic that presided at the institution of the heir status by the spouse had to do with the protection of widows, at the time more widows, who depended economically on the spouses and who, therefore, through the inheritance and acquisition of the estate, would be compensated and would see their future assured. Today, however, it is no longer so. It was similar to the idea that there should be greater protection for descendants of people who have blood ties exactly because of the responsibilities that parents have toward their children. Now, I think it is here that the great challenge for all of us, for all sides: to revisit, perhaps, the whole succession regime in order to adapt it to this current reality. In any case, it is unquestionable that marriage, with the present successive regime, causes direct harm to the children, because they have to compete from the heritage point of view with the spouses. If so, if the Socialist Party's bill is born with this concern to protect the heritage interests of pre-existing children, I think there are three reflections that the PSD would like to do and that the Socialist Party would also equalize. First, it seems controversial that the waiver of inheritance should be confined to the regime of the separation of property. Why? Why not also the regime of communion of acquirers? The spouse keeps his or her share and only the part of the inheritance that is distributed by the children is that he or she would be the object of resignation. Secondly, there is no clear reason why the waiver should be reciprocal—in fact, I have already placed this reservation at the time under discussion in 1. the Commission. Why does it have to be done by both spouses? If one of them has children and the other doesn't have children, why can't the one who doesn't have just give up the inheritance of the other? We know that the marriage scheme has joint interests here, but the contractual freedom with regard to heritage interests must, in this particular point and in our opinion, avenge. The third and final reservation has to do with the fact that the proposed scheme enables, on the one hand, to renounce the status of heir, but on the other hand, to admit liberalities and donations in life, which means that the surviving spouse can, in life, be a kind of legitimate heir, getting through the window what he accepted to close through the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u105	In conclusion, Mr President, this bill has in fact virtualities, but I think it needs refinements that the PSD will be prepared to do within the Commission. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u106	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yes, it is true that the adaptation of the right of succession to social reality, which is ours and which is different from the one that served as a founding matrix, is very convenient, and in this we converge, but it is crystal clear that there is here a practical problem that confronts Portuguese society today and that is also the solution of problems that the way is made. in this specific case, we are faced with situations that are known and that are those of people who intend to marry, they intend to celebrate this form of contract in the light of civil law, but who, having children in a previous relationship, see that this possibility of getting married will involve successive effects that can, in the specific case, manifest themselves as undesirable and be hampered by the formalization of this legal form. It is fair, therefore, that an amendment should be made, precisely in order to amend this regime and adapt it to the sociological realities and even ethics that today dominate Portuguese society. on our part, we are therefore in accordance with the meaning of this bill. We also agree with some of the comments that Mr Peixoto has just mentioned, of which, of the three he has mentioned, would refer at least two in which I look and I believe we should work. I would add two other comments which I believe will now be able to contribute to the equation of work in the field of speciality that we are going to make. The first concerns the family home and the protection of the surviving spouse. It is a matter that needs to be equated with some rigor, because, in fact, the power-CL would perfectly equalize the possibility of ownership of the family house being attributed to descendants, or heirs, but possession, for example, is dependent on the death of the widow or widow. We believe that this would be just in order to guard positions that, eventually, will be of great fragility from the heritage point of view and from the social point of view. The second point is that, in fact, in this norm, in this amendment which is proposed by the Socialist Party, perhaps the hypothesis could be equalized, not just from here to the future, and this is something that we should reflect — that we have a transitional standard that will allow some situations to be adapted at the moment. This is something that, from our point of view, is worth equating, thinking, thinking and reflecting and therefore these observations are part of a whole book of charges, so let us say, for the work that will be done at the heart of discussion in the specialty and which I believe will certainly allow us to come to an amendment that is more capable of accepting this justice solution and also a set of other challenges worth taking into account. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating the PS on bringing this discussion to the plenary and, indeed, because we are debating a question of justice that is being dealt with. Of course, there are some conditions that we also want to impose, and therefore, despite the initiative being, by us, well-known, there are issues, such as that of the family house, which Mr. José Manuel Pureza spoke about recently, which is absolutely essential to us and without which we will not be able to support the initiative at all. But before that, I wanted to make clear a question that concerns me and that, although it is later, I would not like to mention: it costs me a bit to see this PS, which is the PS that told us, CDS, when we presented the protection initiatives of the elderly in which we moved in the Civil Code, that it was not curial to be moving in that Code, because the same would be revised in a broad, global way, which would be appropriate to the reality of today's days, which would be properly systematized in a properly developed package, it costs me, I said, now to see the same PS to, if we do not do so, not to make this overall review of the Civil Code — worse, little or nothing in relation to the elderly, so that we continue with the elderly protected in this matter — and to come with a scatter, cut-off measure, to move into a regime that is vitally reversing itself, as a whole, and in its entirety, and failing of the succession regime, which is important and crucial. So in terms of political coherence and political action, we are talking and we regret that this is not the path of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u111	Since in the CDS we do not have the same prejudice, that is to be in the position of the proposer, and we are willing to discuss what is best for people, it is appropriate for us not to force ourselves and that there is first room for freedom for the parties, which is what is achieved with this proposal which has already been explained here. Therefore, it is also relevant for us to allow the parties that programme and plan their lives, according to what they consider to be better and more convenient for you. Therefore, it also makes sense and is relevant, for us, that being optional and non-impossive this faculty, each family according to their lives in the way they understand to be better. So when there is a change of social substrate in which there are second marriages and in which everyone should have equal protection, it is good that families can freely decide what is best for them. But, in fact, as I said at first, it is important not to forget that the vital enjoyment of the family home must be at least at the same time secure and cautious, because there is no way to realize that in a concrete situation the surviving spouse may be involved and not have the house where he always lived, because he wants to be shared by the other heirs. That has to be guarded. Moreover, in the CDS, because this is a matter of freedom, we will also give voting freedom to the Members of our bench and the Members will act in accordance with their conscience. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u112	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand the relevance of the question which is put in this bill, I read it carefully. We read the opinions which were sent to this House on this project and in all of them there are no fundamental disagreements, although they call attention to some aspects which are important to take into account and which have been brought here, in particular, issues which have not even been raised in these opinions, but which are relevant issues, such as those of the Members. Mr. Carlos Peixoto and Mr. José Manuel Pureza put it, which we believe should be duly weighted and appreciated. We must also recognize that it is a reason for what Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said here, because, when they were presented here by other parties draft laws with specific amendments to the Civil Code, I remember the Socialist Party saying that this was not the way things were done, that the Civil Code is a senior legislative diploma, that in matters such as those of family law should be changed with all thought, which is true, but then, at the first corner, it is the Socialist Party that has tabled motions for a major amendment to the Civil Code. In any case, what we think is that the revision of the Civil Code should be considered, because the law of successions, the law of the family are complex and old legislative buildings and, when works are done, we must take into account the overall character of them, because otherwise the building has an architecture but then someone comes and closes a marquise, then comes someone who changes a window and, to the many, we risk that the problem is not only aesthetic and can even become a structural problem and create deficiencies in the building itself. So you have to take that into account. In order to say that we do not reject this solution, we recognise the problem, we know that it exists and does not fight us anything, on the contrary, that legislative initiatives can be taken to solve it, but it wants to seem to us that what is proposed must be seen in all its implications. Therefore, we must not make a hasty amendment to the Civil Code — in fact, that is not what we are proposing either — but, of course, we must look carefully at the various implications that this measure may have, because it can justify, in fact, that there may be other amendments that are necessary for things to work harmoniously and not create legislative imbalances. That is to say that, on our part, we will not make this legislative initiative impossible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u114	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would particularly like to welcome the opinion on the fundamental principle contained in the initiative and to point out, precisely, that we did not intend to make the structural change, and, of course, everyone in this House has the capacity to take the initiative in order to make this structural change. Therefore, we intend to make that amendment which allows us to continue to operate with its essential characteristics, creating, if you want, an escape valve. These amendments, I think, are fundamental until someone has the initiative to propose such a structural change. Finally, I want to say that most of the issues raised were issues that we ourselves discussed internally, in the elaboration of the project, we are aware of them and in relation to all of them it is necessary to find a point of balance that is as consensual as possible and for this, of course, the Socialist Party has all the openness, in the stage of speciality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-03.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our agenda. It is only left to me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 10 a.m. and consists, in point 1, of the Reassessment of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII / 3. a — The second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them, and for the first amendment to Law No 41 / 2015 of 3 June establishing the legal regime applicable to the pursuit of construction activity. in point 2 shall be assessed the Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February, which establishes the basic restrictions or reference levels relating to human exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from lines, installations and other high and very high voltage equipment, regulating Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( parliamentary assessment No 59 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE) ]. in point 3 shall be discussed, together, draft resolutions 1435 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the legal regime of the taxi sector in order to contribute to the modernisation of this transport ( CDS-PP ), 1553 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Modernisation of the taxi sector ( PCP ) and 1556 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends a set of support and promotion measures for the taxi sector ( PS ). Point 4 shall consist of the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 770 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Revises the revision of the urban lease law approved by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( CFP ), 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing rental ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, and the New Urban Rent Scheme ) ( BE ), 848 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, for the improvement of the exercise of the right of preference by the tenants ( the seventy-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November) ( BE ), 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate financing mechanisms for promoting housing policies ( makes the seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September) ( BE), 850 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs counter-ordinary punishment for harassment in lease ( BE ), 852 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revoking Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( Review of the Urban Rent Law) ( The Greens ), 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the suspension of deadlines for the New Urban Rent Scheme and for lay-off procedures ( BE) and 854 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes an extraordinary and transitional regime for the protection of elderly or disabled persons who have been leased and resided on the same site for more than 15 years ( PS ), of draft resolution No 1555 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate the procedures of the national lease counter ( NAP) and the proposals of lein.o 127 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from the taxation of property income arising from renting or renting of housing under the affordable lease programme, 128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs differentiated autonomous rates of IRS for residential income in long-term housing leases and 129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to correct imbalance situations in the position of tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban leases and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. in point 5 we shall have no time for debate 2. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018. Finally, in point 6 we shall have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. With this, we finish our work. I wish to all and to all the continuation of a good afternoon. [[It was 17 hours and 26 minutes.]]
