ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please proceed to the opening of the galleries. As there is no record to announce, we will start our work, whose agenda results from a marking of the CDS-PP on European funds, social and territorial cohesion. In this context, the draft resolutions 1269 / XIII ( 3 ) will generally be discussed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promptly define the policy guidelines for the negotiation of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( CDS-PP ) and 1648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( PSD ). At the end of the debate, we will have scheduled votes. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing the next multiannual financial framework for the period from 2021 to 2027, i.e. the Community funds for the coming years. The CDS initiative now has the obvious virtue to place the negotiating process of the funds at the heart of the political debate. The CDS was the first party to present a legislative initiative, clearly telling what was coming and defining very well what its priorities are at the moment we are living. First priority: meeting the objectives of sustainable development, as set by the United Nations ( United Nations ). Portugal must use the next Community funds to combat climate change, especially serious in our country, to improve the storage and distribution of water, to manage to decarbonise the economy, promoting the reduction of global consumption, but also to improve urban mobility, which is so directly impacting on the carbonization of our economy. Second priority: we defend agriculture and the sea as the hub of our sovereignty, as a guarantee of self-sufficiency and food security, but also as a catalyst for the development of the country's interior. Having a strategy for the interior of the country that ignores agriculture is the same as having a strategy for the coast that does not speak of the sea. Third priority: we defend the dimension of social and territorial cohesion and that Community funds should enable us to create the conditions for terms within Portugal, a free zone, either from the point of view of taxes or from the point of view of regulation, in which we are allowed to have an idea or to test a business as competitive as possible on the global stage and the European Union. Fourth priority: we support Portugal's economic competitiveness and, in this sense, the next funds have to bet on the digital economy, digitalisation and innovation sector, from the point of view of the economy, where Europe is unfortunately falling behind. Fifth and last priority: we stand up for a clear commitment to the demographic challenge, to counter the 'demographic winter' which has fallen on Portugal and which we are slowing down. We made the submission of these proposals in January, even in anticipation of the European Commission's own position.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u4	We understand that this is now the time when Parliament must speak again on this matter, since there are a number of new political elements which have led to the debate. We heard about the European Commission's proposal on 2 May last and yesterday the proposal on cohesion and regional development policy, which in the case of Portugal provides for a 7% cut. Let me make it quite clear: the proposal, as it is, is bad for Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The CDS has not been tired of saying, by the voice of Assumption Cristas, in Portugal, and by the voice of Nuno Melo, in the European Parliament. Our position is clear: the proposal released on May 2, by the European Commission, is short and unsatisfactory, denotes a lack of ambition and is contrary to national interest. The proposal made yesterday on cohesion policy is unfortunately confirmation of a bad initial proposal. next Friday the proposal on agricultural funds will be known. The announced cut of 25 % in the funds for the second pillar, the rural development funds, leaves us very concerned about what might come from there. From the outset, the CDS understood the constraints that would arise from the negotiation of the next Community budget, in particular those resulting from the loss of a net taxpayer such as the United Kingdom, because of Brexit, as well as those resulting from the challenge of extending the budget to new dimensions of Community policy, whether defence and security, whether migration or climate change, and even we see the fact that there are more beneficiaries around the budget table. But we do not accept that these constraints mean a reduction in money for agriculture and for cohesion, much less at a time when the European project needs to give space to a possible divergence between European economies, especially at a time when Europe has positive economic growth rates. Either Europe is moving ahead with determination, with firmness and ambition, or at the risk of its own fragmentation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The current political crisis framework in Italy, which has already affected us indirectly but irremediablely, is unfortunately a cruel reminder that economic crises are not a matter of « if », is a matter of « when ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u6	But if all this is true, it is also no less true that the inability or inability of the Portuguese Government to listen or impose in Brussels is detrimental to national interests. I would point out two facts which reveal this inability: firstly, Portugal is the only country in the south of the cohesion group outside the list of countries where Community cohesion funds grow; secondly, Portugal is the only country in Ireland - of the five countries that had interventions - which is outside the list of countries which see the cohesion funds strengthened. The CDS noted in time the political error that it was not to have a line of dialogue and consultation with the so-called cohesion countries. The Socialist Party's government preferred to be delighted with the new tomorrows they sing in Europe, to fly by weight from Falcon to Athens with a new government, to fall in love with the 'Syrizas' or the 'Macrons' of Europe and was unable to guarantee what other countries, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Greece or Spain themselves, managed to do, i.e. to increase cohesion funds. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And it didn't have to be that way. Knowing the difficulties of negotiation, we also know that this Community framework, unlike the previous one, is being discussed at a time of free growth in Europe. This economic growth gave us the ambition to propose that the budget should go to 1, 3 % of the wealth generated in the European Union. The government didn't follow us. It was a proposal of 1, 2 %, which lowered the negotiating expectation, but above all made this proposal accompanied by something which is unacceptable for us: the creation of not one of two but three, I repeat, of three European taxes which would not be used to finance the Portuguese State budget and rather to finance the budget of Brussels, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u8	The Government of the Socialist Party was more concerned with giving Brussels the opportunity to impose taxes on Portuguese than to defend the interests of Portuguese in Brussels. [[CDS-PP applause.]] the Portuguese government has failed the strategy, failed the target and the results are starting to be seen : a cut of 7 % in cohesion funds poses additional investment difficulties in Portugal. The structural funds represent anything like 50 % of public investment in Portugal and therefore it is not difficult to anticipate the impact that a cut of 7% might have on public investment in Portugal at a time when it reached the lowest levels of memory at the expense of widespread degradation of public services. That is why we do not comply with the weak console expressed yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when pointing out progress towards the previous proposal, in a position very close to the « could be worse ». I could! Power, I could, but the truth is that I could and, above all, it should be better! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Better than in Spain, which sees cohesion funds rise by about 5 % when in Portugal they fall by 7 %. Better as it is in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus or Finland itself, countries that have many economic development problems similar to those in Portugal, with a difference: see the money of cohesion rise, while Portugal is watching them fall. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude by saying that we are those who do not resign, that we do not lose our ambition, that we do not lower our arms, that we do not conform. We are of those who do not give up Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u9	The Bureau records three entries, by Deputies António Costa Silva, Fernando Rocha Andrade and Heitor Sousa, for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr Pedro Mota Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u10	Mr President, I shall respond first to one and then together to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u11	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u12	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, today we have had a very important opportunity to discuss a truly emerging issue and therefore I congratulate the CDS-PP on this debate. As Martin Luther King said, who accepts evil without protesting cooperates with it. This is an example of this because accepting these policies, these cuts in cohesion policy is clearly a mistake for Portugal that we cannot accept. We are talking about a 7 % cut in the European funds for Portugal compared with the previous programming. They are more than clear about the inconsistencies that exist, particularly in the proposal put forward by the European Commission. The PSD defends a cohesive European Union from a territorial and social point of view. The PSD defends a more united, more competitive European Union. The PSD defends a more secure and more supportive European Union. We therefore believe that these policies do not defend Europeans, they do not defend Portuguese. Cutting into cohesion policy is clearly wrong. How is it explained that a policy that is recognised by all, that has worked well, that has increased gross domestic product (GDP) among the different countries, is subject to these cuts, mainly affecting the weakest and poorest countries and regions? Oh, my God! How is it explained that the poorest Member States have higher courts than those of the richest States? Oh, my God! Actually, you don't understand. Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares, in point three of your draft resolution, proposes to abandon the defence of the policy of strengthening the European Union's own resources, at the expense of the introduction of three new European taxes. But, Mr President, should it not also be defending more revenue for the European Union, without this falling on taxpayers, making up for other national taxes? Oh, my God! This, contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa defended, which defended more taxes, above more taxes. There should be balance in this area, but indeed, in view of these new realities, we need more revenue for the European Union than money on GDP. After all, what is the way the CDS proposes? Knowing that the constraints are much greater, due to Brexit and the new European priorities, new forms of funding for the European budget need to be found and the CDS does not propose them in its project. Mr President, I hope that you will now be able to answer in particular those proposals which will indeed be reflected in the European budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u13	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u14	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, we would like to highlight the PSD question, because we note that, unlike other parliamentary groups but, above all, the Government, which chooses not to be present in this debate, the Government is not obliged to be in this debate but the choices and, above all, the government omissions say a lot about its political concerns - the PSD has chosen to be present in this debate with an initiative that we very much welcome. That is why we wanted to highlight the PSD position vis-à-vis other political parties. In order to answer your question, Mr President, and also to allow me to point out that point 3 of the PSD project clearly provides for the provision, the creation of taxes at European level, which the CDS does not accept, I would like to say to you in a very clear way, what is the proposal of the CDS. We argue that the Community budget of the European Union should increase, because that is the way to ensure that there will be no reduction in cohesion and agriculture. And as the European Parliament has said, they must increase to 1,3 % of the wealth created in the European Union. For this, Portugal's contribution should increase. We know until the increase in Portugal's contribution is in the house of 300 million euros and we have nothing against helping the government, if he needs help, to figure out where he can find that money. But that, Mr. Deputies, has a name: to govern. A government that is effectively responsible for the country and the Portuguese has to find ways to find savings, to find these 300 million euros without overloading taxpayers. I know that for many socialists - and it seems to me that, unfortunately, for some social democrats - the only way we have to increase contributions is by spending more, but, Mr President, there is another way and it is called 'controlling expenditure', which is what the CDS proposes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u15	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group also spoke to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, in effect, is an issue whose importance has prompted the PS to have proposed, and that in fact it had been approved by the Assembly of the Republic, the establishment of a possible committee that would allow not only the monitoring of the matter but also the conciliation of positions, which seems to us to be the most useful way in Parliament to take a decision rather than the vote of seven separate draft resolutions. This leads us to have no draft resolution to present, because, frankly, it does not seem to us that it is the most productive methodology. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to leave the question of own resources. From the beginning that the CDS, in this matter, tries to challenge not only the science of public finances but also mathematics. It says that the European budget should increase to 1, 3 % of gross national income, but it never says where these resources come from. The CDS says that national contributions to this budget should increase, but, Mr, it is more or less a mathematical certainty that, if national contributions increase, taxes will be higher than they would have to be to finance the same national expenditure. This has no ideology or anything but a relatively elementary mathematics. The Socialist Party and the Government have long associated themselves with what seemed to be an intelligent proposal that already existed in the European institutions, which was to take advantage of the need to strengthen the financial resources to introduce tax resources that are almost self-justified as they contribute to the increase of tax justice in the European Union. And why do they contribute? They contribute, because we now have realities, such as financial transactions on digital platforms, that escape taxation. On the other hand, with regard to financial transactions, the previous government had this political priority and followed this matter in the European Union as a priority. I do not understand how the CDS does not understand as a priority the taxation of digital platforms that compete with companies in Portugal but which are geographically located in Luxembourg or Ireland, which are huge multinationals, whose incomes can only be effectively taxed at the level of the European Union. The CDS's refusal to have own, Community tax resources is only defending the interests of these multinationals and not the interest of any taxpayer in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u17	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u18	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Pedro Mota Soares on the subject he brought us today for discussion and reflection, but I would also say to him that I was quite disappointed in the way the CDS chose. It is that of two: either the CDS wants to launch a travel campaign throughout the national territory, with its leader in front, to disband the multiannual financial programme which the European Commission has approved, or, then, this is a pure propaganda manoeuvre, which aims to hide a narrative which, in Mr. Pedro Mota Soares' opinion, seems to exist only in Portugal. Mr Pedro Mota Soares was able to say there, in the rostrum, that there was a cut of 7% in the cohesion funds, but he cannot explain why it happened, as he cannot explain why there is an increase of more than 7% in other Community budget headings which are now considered priority. It's just that things have to do with each other, sir! What the CDS draft resolution tells us is that none of this seems to happen. It seems to ignore that the European Commission and the Council of Ministers of the European Union have taken other priorities, which tell us that the priority is now, for example, to have a more active and present voice in matters of war and peace policy in the world. Moreover, that is why this European defence army, such armed defence forces and such security policy applies to the whole of the European Union. That is where political priorities are, therefore, poured into budget headings. So, since the blanket is short, you have to take one side to put on the other. Mr President, I would like to ask you directly: why do you think that, in the case of the common agricultural policy and the cohesion funds, the European Commission has chosen to reduce significant values of these funds, to increase what is called the « line of other strategic investments », which are those which are intended for headings which have so far not the same budgetary relevance? Oh, my God! The second question has to do with the method that the CDS has chosen to address this issue. I do not know what contribution the CDS intends to make to the functioning of the Possible Monitoring Committee of the Definition Process of the « Portugal 2030 Strategy », which was unanimously approved by the CDS and the PSD. The CDS and PSD want to advance the work of the Eventual Commission itself, which has chosen to hear a number of entities, some of which are repeated in the draft resolution of the CDS. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] How does the CDS want to do? Do you want to hear these entities alone and then forward the conclusions of your hearings to the Committee? Oh, my God! Indeed, Mr President, this makes no sense. This policy and this option of the CDS make sense only if you want to make this debate a banner to say: "We were the first to initiate reflection, the discussion on this multi-annual financial framework". Those who launched the discussion on the multiannual financial framework were neither the CDS nor the PSD, and the European Commission, which, in its initial proposal of February 2018, had included a number of financing instruments at Community level, and between February and May these own Community financing instruments disappeared.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u19	It has nothing to do with each other! You're messing up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u20	The European Commission, in February 2018, planned to introduce a financial transaction tax as a form of financing the Community budget globally and between February and March that intention disappeared without justification. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, what do you think has happened in the European Commission? And now, what is the CDS' opinion on this matter? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u21	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u22	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade and Mr Heitor Sousa presented the questions and I will begin by answering Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade. Mr President, only in the head of a socialist is that two thoughts are possible, the first of which is that in order to increase contributions we have to increase taxes. Mr President, to govern is not just to increase taxes, to govern is to make choices, to have priorities, for example, to be able to save and reduce expenditure and to stimulate economic growth. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, perhaps if you put down a little bit, you will be able to listen to me! at this moment, there is an objective difference between the negotiation of this Community framework and that of the previous one, because there is now strong economic growth in Europe...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u23	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u24	... and we should take advantage of this economic growth so that we can finance the European Union's budget better and more. For this reason, there is no need for more taxes to be introduced at European level to finance Brussels, not for the State budget in Portugal. The second idea that only one socialist has is that taxes are not paid by the Portuguese. Now, we remember very well the last time that you said this here, during the discussion of the State Budget for 2016, when the Socialist Party presented the proposal for the creation of a tax — the rate of occupation of subsoils — and said that it would not be paid by the Portuguese. I show you an invoice from a company in Portugal, Mr Deputy, which is charging exactly that charge to one Portuguese. Therefore, this idea that taxes created are not paid by the Portuguese is objectively a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u26	Finally, Mr Deputy, with regard to insinuations of multinationals and taxes, he is linked to the creation of a tax revaluation scheme for assets which only for a large company, EDP, meant a tax bond of EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u28	The honourable Member should have a little more caution when he makes any sort of insinuation on any other bench. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u29	No caution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u30	As regards the questions put by Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block, I must say that there is an objective difference between the position of the CDS and that of the Left Block. It's just that the CDS contribution is here, it's been known since January. Right at the beginning of the year we said what our priorities were and I confess that during this whole time I do not know a role, a draft resolution, an idea of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u32	He's very distracted! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u33	But there's a second idea that's different from us. The honourable Member has a position on Europe which I find incomprehensible: « The European Union is bad, we do not like the European Union, the Community funds are bad, but we want more». This is, in fact, incomprehensible! It is against Europe and against the European Union, but at the end of the day it wants to ask for more. As you know, we do not oppose new policies, what we say is that these new policies cannot be made at the expense of money such as cohesion and CAP (common agricultural policy ). This is not happening in other countries. Look at Spain, next to it, which will even become a medium-term net contributor. The fact is that the Spanish Government had the ability to have money to grow, from the point of view of cohesion, by 5 %, while in Portugal there is a 7 % reduction. Therefore, this argument is not true, since there are a number of countries that, even with new policies, are able to go further, are being able to increase the funds, and Portugal is not being able to increase them. Mr. Deputies, once again, there is a big difference between the CDS bench and the Left Block bench. The CDS bench has already presented and approved in the 2013 State Budget the creation of a financial transaction tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u35	Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u36	So if you want to know the position of the CDS you just have to do one very simple thing: read the papers, read the documents, get a little more information and understand the position of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u37	Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings to this House a draft resolution recommending to the Government that it will intransigently defend the interests of Portugal and Portuguese within the framework of the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027. This draft resolution is, more than ever, timely and the recommendations it makes are, unfortunately, more than ever, necessary. Yesterday we learned that the European Commission proposes, in relation to the values of the current Community Support Framework, negotiated by the previous Government, a cut of 7 % in the European funds for Portugal. This proposal is, let us say, with all clarity and frontality, a bad start (a start, which is a continuation of the beginning of May) and is completely unacceptable for Portugal. Unacceptable, because these cuts affect cohesion policy, a policy aimed at helping the poorest and weaker countries to reduce territorial, social and economic asymmetries in the European Union. Unacceptable, because the poorest countries, as is the case with Portugal, will have more cuts than the richest ones. The cuts are 45 % in the Cohesion Fund for Member States with less than 90 % of GDP per capita and 25 % on the axis of the rural development of the CAP. In view of this proposal and the threat it poses to our country, what does the government say and do? It lowers expectations, minimizes or devalues the intensity of cuts, feeds, even if in a capocious way, a stubborn conformism, seems to be available to accept the little one and, above all, does not seek or seem to want the alliances necessary to defend the vision and common interests of countries which, like Portugal, must continue to benefit from European solidarity in the name of cohesion and competitiveness. The European Commission's proposal no longer does nothing to divert us from the founding principles of the Union and from the right path that we need to continue to travel together to build a more coherent, more supportive and more competitive Europe. The PSD has been, and is, from the first hour, next to the Government, in the defence of national interests, in the definition of the budget and the master lines of the next Community programming cycle. The agreement we have concluded with the Government is certainly clear and unequivocal. But that is why we are here today, to remind the government that the beautiful words or declarations of circumstance do not arrive. You need more! There's a need for action! Alternative proposals must be formulated, alliances must be found and necessary support should be negotiated in order to defend the interests of Portugal and the interests of the European Union. And we therefore recommend that the Government first defend the strengthening of the next multiannual financial framework, suggesting the contribution of the Member States to a minimum of 1, 2 % of gross national income (GNB) and seek support and political commitment among the countries most dependent on cohesion policy. Secondly, it advocates the maintenance of the financial envelopes in relation to the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy to ensure that they are not less than the 2014-2020 budget. Thirdly, under the next multiannual financial framework, I would like to thank the European Commission for meeting the objectives of the strategy defined by the Commission itself for the development of the most fragile regions, called convergence regions. And fourthly, it advocates new ways of increasing Community revenue without penalising taxpayers — we insist on this point, without penalising taxpayers —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u40	... in particular with the reduction in the rate of retention of customs duties, the fines charged to countries which violate competition rules, the application of international financial transactions fees,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u42	... the introduction of rates on the transnational platforms of the digital sector through the transfer of profits from the ECB ( European Central Bank ) to the European Union, and the creation of a percentage on the taxation on carbon trading. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cohesion policy cannot be used as an ‘adjustment variable’ of the next multiannual financial framework, taking into account that this policy has a clear European added value, because it produces results that go beyond what would be possible by mobilising efforts at national, regional or local level, because it encourages actions at national, regional and local level to meet the objectives of the European Union's treaties, whose realisation would not otherwise be possible, because it supports actions that can only be financed through the European Union's resource congregation, due to the magnitude of its financing needs, and ultimately because it contributes to the establishment and support for peace and stability in and beyond the Union's neighbourhood. It should therefore be recalled that the main objective of cohesion policy is real convergence between Member States and between regions. And that is what the European Commission's proposal does not advocate or promote. We cannot resign, we cannot comply, considering that this proposal is a lesser evil, as we sometimes hear from representatives of the Socialist Party and from the Government. We don't accept any kind of little thing! The Government therefore has the obligation and duty to act and work to find alternatives that best defend the interests of Portugal and the European Union. That's what we expect and demand from the government! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u43	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Vitalino Canas, of the PS Parliamentary Group, and Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block. Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u44	Mr President, I would like to thank the PSD for his speech and for the subject raised by his draft resolution, which allows us to have a debate here which is important for the country. However, my greeting remains here because, in fact, it seems to me that the methodology used, either by the CDS-PP or by the PSD, is contradictory to that which has already been approved in this House of the Republic, the methodology, which will allow this House to take a strong position on this issue and not a fragile position, what would happen if the two initiatives that we are discussing today were approved. Mr President, I must tell you that we too have reason to consider the Commission's proposal unsatisfactory. We believe that there are room for negotiation, we will negotiate and we will certainly get a better proposal. But I would like to say to you, Mr President, that it seems unacceptable to us that the European Commission, through the voice of some Commissioners, notably Commissioner Carlos Moedas, has come to say that this was a proposal that recognized that Portugal has made a lot of progress — and indeed, it has made a lot of progress — and that is why it had to have less funds. We consider this unacceptable. This is an argument that penalises who worked well, withdrawing funds from it. On the other hand, Mr President, the PSD proposal we are discussing today is also a fragile proposal from the point of view of its content, because it is a proposal that holds back some of the priorities that Portugal must defend at the level of this discussion, including the priorities related to innovation and science policy—priorities, which are also advocated by the Portuguese Commissioner—the priorities related to security and defence policy and migration priorities. However, the PSD draft resolution completely closes those priorities. And the position of the Portuguese Parliament could never go beyond these priorities. In fact, perhaps that is why the PSD here argues that the next budget should have a minimum level of about 1, 2 % while in Brussels it stands for 1, 3 %. Perhaps you have already forgotten here that there are other priorities that must also be taken up. So with regard to this subject, I would like to understand exactly what the PSD position is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u45	Since Mr Leite Ramos has informed the Bureau that he will answer the two gentlemen together. Members, you now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u46	Mr President, I believe that there is a common matrix to the CDS and PSD in the draft resolutions they presented. It is because they are politically autistic draft resolutions, especially from a strategic point of view, because they are projects that want to count a narrative impossible, which is to separate cohesion funds to Portugal from the whole strategy that presides over the definition of the Community budget at European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u47	You have to learn what the Community budget is! That would work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u48	And that separation is impossible, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos! It is not possible to look at the reduction of Community funds in the Portuguese case by separating them from what is now the political priorities that guide the budget at Community level. Having said that, the first question, honourable Member, is this: is the PSD autistic in relation to the strategic options that the European Commission has set out in the guidance document for the next multiannual financial framework? Are you an autistic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u49	Do you have anything against the autists? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u50	Does he not recognise that one of the greatest priorities has to do with the fact that the European Commission, together with the Council of Ministers of the European Union, understands that Europe must have a more muscular, more active attitude in the European context, especially in the war context, of presenting war arguments to exert political influence worldwide? Oh, my God! Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is right that the European Commission has penalised precisely cohesion policies in order to be able to accommodate the new political priorities that the Community budget now reflects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u51	To reply, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr Vitalino Canas and Mr Heitor Sousa asked questions. in fact, Mr Vitalino Canas, I remind you that whoever has most supported this budget and has said that Portugal has had preferential treatment on the part of the Commission has been a socialist Commissioner. The Commissioner for Regional Policy is the one who has most defended this proposal, as fair and correct, for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u53	You have to talk to her!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u54	The Commissioner is a socialist. So when Mr Coedas comes to talk about the analysis of how the budget or distribution was made, he should also be concerned about the comrades who have in some way defended this position. I remind the honourable Member that what we are defending here has been the subject of an agreement in principle with the Government of the Socialist Party. And what we said today was nothing more than reminding the government — and now the Socialist Party — that, more than beautiful words, we want action. That is what we challenged the government. We want the government to find the alternatives that it builds, that it has no fear of seeking those alliances with the same countries that have exactly the same problems, which defend the same causes and which are penalized by this budget, which the government has not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u56	Apart from the words, I have not yet seen — I believe none of the Members. Members have seen, to date, a concrete proposal by the Government to overcome this bad budget, this bad proposal and, above all, the conditions associated with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u58	That is the challenge we face, that is the challenge we want the government to take, start to work and build, because that is why it committed itself to the Democratic Social Party when it signed this agreement in principle. We fully agree. And here I am taking advantage of this to tell the honourable Member — and to reply to Mr Heitor Sousa — something very simple: we are not ashamed or afraid to take up the defence of Portuguese citizens, European citizens, and to guarantee security in Europe as a fundamental principle of this European Union in a very clear way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u60	We know that this is not a priority for the Left Block, that Europe is not a priority. So there is no autism here, Mr. Heitor Sousa. Autism has perhaps been a lot of what the Left Block has done over the past two years because it has supported a government that has exactly defended the opposite in European matters, in terms of security, in terms of development, and the Left Block pretends that it does not support that government. That, yes, is autism or even a little more than autism, is a way of taking on its principles and its convictions. We have no problem assuming them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u61	You have to write!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u62	With regard to financing, what we say, honourable Member, is that the options that have been taken with regard to security policy are options that do not affect cohesion policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u63	These are political choices!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u64	It is not true, Mr, and I also challenge you with the same: study the documents better, deepen your knowledge of these matters so as not to make statements that do not correspond to the truth. Within the current Budget, it is possible to make a difference, it is possible to find more resources, it is possible to guarantee the safety of Europeans, the security of Portuguese, the security of different countries and, at the same time, to ensure the promotion and development of cohesion countries, as is the case with Portugal, which very much needs this help to continue to progress and develop. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u65	Mr Margarida Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in times of debate about the future of Europe. Yes, because when we discuss the multiannual financial framework for the post-2020 period we are discussing the future of Europe, the European Union we want, as when any budget is discussed, but now at European level. We also know that the negotiating periods before the decision on the multiannual financial framework are normally periods of great tension at European level, with the so-called 'liquid taxpayers' remembering that they contribute financially to the European Union but forgetting that they benefit significantly from the centralised management programmes, the investments their companies make in the so-called 'cohesion regions' or to be members of the internal market, taking advantage of them — as we have taken! — the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. Why are investments and businesses leaving the United Kingdom? Because the United Kingdom will probably cease to be part of the internal market. Some of these countries receive the so-called « returns » that the European Commission has not definitively withdrawn, limiting itself to foreseeing its progressive reduction during this budgetary period, wasting the opportunity given to them by the European Parliament. Portugal has three fundamental challenges in negotiating this financial framework after-2020. The first challenge is to give its vote on a multiannual financial framework for the European Union for the period 2021 / 2027, which is good for the European Union, to meet the challenges of citizens, Member States and the European Union itself. That is to say, responding to the current and future challenges of European citizens who seek more protection or greater appreciation of the European pillar of social rights, to the current and future challenges of the Member States of the European Union, to the current and future challenges of the European Union. Yes, we are talking today about a financial framework that goes until the end of 2027. We are talking about globalisation and international trade, the European Union's geo-strategic function, commitment to peace and development and respect for international agreements, compliance with the Paris Agreement, a Europe more connected with trans-European transport networks and strategic digital networks. The second challenge is to reach a financial envelope for Portugal which, within the European framework, is fair. in the draft budget presented by the European Commission at the beginning of May, we saw a reduction in funding for cohesion policies and agricultural policy. Yesterday, the European Commission presented its detailed proposal and the country-to-country distribution, only as far as cohesion policy is concerned. The news went from bad to bad. We know that this division is not arbitrary. It is also predominantly based on gross domestic product per capita, but it also includes new criteria for all categories of regions with the argument to better reflect the socio-economic situation in the regions. At the same time, the European Commission proposes a'safety network' to avoid too sudden changes in the allocation of funds to the Member States. for the Cohesion Fund, the method remains unchanged, i.e. Member States whose gross national income per capita is less than 90 % of the European Union average will benefit from the Cohesion Fund. on the proposal currently at the table, Portugal would benefit from financing of around EUR 21, EUR 2 billion at constant prices of 2018 — EUR 24 billion at current prices. This is an increase in the amounts available for cohesion policy, but indeed it means a cut of 7 % in real values compared to the current picture. The reduction of the total cohesion envelope is 10 %. Countries such as Germany — with a reduction of 20, 6 % — Poland, Hungary, Estonia, Czech Republic, Lithuania, all cohesion countries have a reduction of these policies by about 20 % to 25 %. The fact that the reduction in Portugal is lower than the average reduction in the financing of cohesion policies cannot make us satisfied. On the contrary, this means that there will certainly be enormous pressure on budgetary adjustments in this negotiation. One thing is certain: increasing own resources is today the most appropriate tool to help change this trend. Third challenge: to compensate for losses of shared management funds for greater and better access to centralised management funds. While the detailed proposals for other policies are not known, it is clear that we have seen a reduction in shared management policies and an enhancement of centralised management policies. It is essential that, in cooperation with countries that as we are deficient in access to centralised management programmes — as is the case with Horizon 2020, the future Europe horizon — Portugal can introduce corrective mechanisms that allow geographically balanced access to those programmes. With the cohesion countries, of course, but also with other countries — the variable geometry — which have for each programme ambitions similar to ours, as Portugal has indeed been doing. Having said that, I would like to highlight some of the principles advocated by the European Commission yesterday as regards cohesion policies after 2020, which I think are important for Portugal. First, I stress a single set of guidelines for the seven funds. Secondly, the inclusion of a reform support programme and a convergence support mechanism. They are still incipient, both, but this is a principle that must be recorded as positive. Finally, allow me to highlight the specific funding for the outermost regions, whose aim is to strengthen their integration into their regional areas and to intensify cooperation between themselves or with third countries or neighbouring partners, thus valuing the geo-strategic importance of these regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament has set up, in due course, a possible committee for monitoring the process of this negotiation, proposed by the PS. We have heard the appropriate partners at European level — European Commissioners, European Members — and at national level — rulers, but not only! Key actors in the design and realization of PT 2127. I have questioned them, but we have also come to express — all parties — very clear positions as the information becomes available, i.e. as the European Commission is explaining its proposals. We receive relevant contributions, as is the case with the contribution of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ). I am convinced that we will continue all our work. This possible committee gives our Parliament a key role in this negotiation, within the framework of our powers, more than any draft resolution. An extended commitment which creates conditions for a combined strategy of Portuguese presence in the different European institutions where this debate takes place is of enormous relevance and the past has shown us that when it works it is effective. A commitment by the Government of this Parliament, but also by those who represent our country in the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions or the European Economic and Social Committee. The Socialists in the European Parliament — and have all the support of the Portuguese Socialists — have been very clear: they cannot adopt a budget based on the courting of cohesion and convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u67	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u68	Mr President, this is once again an excellent opportunity to discuss Europe. And, to discuss Europe, there are some who just want to discuss how much more money we will have or say that this Europe is not solidarity because it does not give us everything we want and then there are others who confuse the European Budget and the programme that comes there with the State Budget, they think it is the same thing when it has nothing to do with it! But there is a message that I would like to give to the Socialist Party and to remind this House: the PSD is not six months ago, not one year ago, not two years ago alerting this government to the importance of this negotiation. Three years ago, at consecutive meetings, we warned of the need for Portugal to reactivate the Friends of Cohesion group again in order to avoid this tragedy that was in sight. To unite countries that have joined in the past to prevent the budget of cohesion from diminishing. The government has ignored all these suggestions and the result is in sight! [[Protests of PS Members.]] We must not forget that this Government has made several agreements with the countries of the south and most of them have seen their money increased. In all 28 countries of the Union — of the 27 remaining — 13 have seen their money increased or did not fall. Portugal has been in the group of countries that see the reduction of their funds, although it is one of the most needed of this aid. The Socialist Party and the Government have two speeches, but they have to choose one. Or Portugal is a country that is in great evolution and, as the Commissioner says, it no longer needs the help of cohesion — and we will beat palms! — or what they inherited was a disgrace and therefore need more cohesion funds. What can't be said at the same time. The government has to decide. Is Portugal much better? Oh, my God! Have you inherited a much better country, or not? Oh, my God! The two speeches make no sense. Therefore, the result that we have of those negotiations of Antonio Costa with Macron, where the hidden subscribing the transnational lists to do the will of the French President, or of Portugal, for example, having been of the few countries that were next to Macron to go further in cooperation for defense, despite the left coalition, is that, after all, Macron sees the money from France increased — until those from Spain increase! — and Portugal sees its words diminish. This is incompetence of the government, which, three years in advance, allowed this tragedy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u70	The PSD chose to be with the government, giving it all the conditions for a good negotiation, for no apology, and yet the government failed. The facts are these and there is no other alternative or other discussion. It is important to ask whether the Socialist Party and the Government are available in the European Commission to raise the flag of low-density territories and to include this feature as the criterion for the distribution of cohesion so that they can reverse the tragedy that is the European Commission's proposal for cohesion. Is the PS available to help this flag that the PSD has raised and that Commissioner Coedas himself has seen with good eyes and wanted to take to the negotiating table? Are you going to Portugal in the Council to defend this criterion? Yes or no? Madam Member, I have one more question to ask you. We have been here discussing European taxes or new rates on various markets that can contribute to increasing own funds. The PSD always said that it would be available to see these rates or taxes with good eye, provided that there was a national tax-lowing counterpart, low tax burden for the Portuguese. This is the PSD condition. The question I leave is also a suggestion: they can start with the additional to the ISP (oil and energy tax), the fuel tax, which has massacred the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u72	They have an alternative: they start by putting an end to it and they will have our support to be able to approve more own resources for the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u73	In reply, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u74	Mr President, this myth that the PSD likes to bring here, saying that Portugal is not cooperating with the countries Friends of Cohesion, is only that: a myth. Indeed, the Friends of Cohesion group was created even in the late 1990s, it was António Guterres Prime Minister, before negotiating the first framework, the so-called Agenda 2000, and this group always worked—more regularly, less regularly, with more intense, less intense meetings, but always worked— having Portugal always participated in all the meetings of the cohesion group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u75	Even Antonio Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u76	What is crucial is that Portugal has challenges that go beyond the challenges of the so-called « cohesion group ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u77	Say the date of the last meeting! Just say one date!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u78	Portugal has other ambitions and does not have some of the problems that the Friends of Cohesion group has, as is the case, for example, with the difficulty of absorption. Portugal does not have a problem of absorption difficulty, but has worked, works and continues to work with the group of countries Friends of Cohesion. So coming here continues to make this statement is only a myth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u79	Say the date of the last meeting!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u80	Secondly, I would remind the honourable Member that his Government was the only one who inherited a gross domestic product greater than the one who gave us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u81	What about the debt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u82	That one left even higher!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u83	So it's good to have that in mind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of taxes and taxes, I believe that we all agree, although this is not very clear in the CDS position, that there is a need for additional own resources for the functioning of the European Union. The European Commission itself presents proposals to increase its own resources and the European Parliament has given the Commission some possibilities to propose enlargement of its own resources. however, from our point of view, as we have already had the opportunity to say, the European Commission has been very little ambitious with regard to own resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u84	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u85	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u86	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u87	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u88	Mr President, it was only to ask that they could be distributed to the other parliamentary groups or the Group of the European Affairs Committee where the Socialist Party itself and the Government assumed that there were no meetings of the cohesion group, or until the last meeting Portugal took part, or then the information on the date it took place. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u89	Mr President, the Bureau will do as requested. On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has been complaining that the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 - 2027 presented by the European Commission is contrary to the national interests and development needs of our country. It is a proposal that, in the future, will contribute to the deepening of Portugal's divergence against other countries in the European Union and not to the reduction of injustices and inequalities in society and asymmetries in the territory, to the promotion of the national production apparatus, to the reduction of external dependence. Time and life demonstrate that the European Union's funds have never compensated nor could they compensate for the losses of sovereignty, the destruction of national production and the commitment to the development possibilities of the country which resulted and result from the single market, the single currency and the common policies of the European Union. The last decades, marked by stagnation and economic recession, unemployment, low wages, precariousness, mass emigration, demographic decline, the fragility of national economic fabric, the domain of national strategic sectors by large foreign capital, speak for themselves about the consequences of the European Union's capitalist integration process for countries such as Portugal. However, this is more true at the time when a cut in funding is announced to be allocated to countries which, like Portugal, have been more affected by the submission of European Union policies and an increase in headings, notably in the area of defence and military industry and in security policies, which mainly benefit the biggest beneficiaries of integration, i.e. the main powers of the European Union and its economic and financial groups. It should be borne in mind that the cuts in cohesion in accordance with the European Commission's proposal will be even more serious than initially announced and with particular negative impact on Portugal. After all, we will be facing a cut of 10 % and not 7 %, including a cut of 45 % in the Cohesion Fund and 10, 4 % in the European Social Fund, with the aggravating of here also by amending rules and criteria in the application of the funds, if you are benefiting more powerful economies and adding further new priorities and new destinations to give less resources placed in the multiannual financial framework. Meanwhile, as we already understand, money remains and multiplies for the military industrial complex. Now, the European Commission has presented new elements of its proposal for a financial framework this week. for what is already known, the European Commission proposes a cut of more than EUR 1, EUR 6 billion in the funds allocated to Portugal, which will be of the countries most affected by this proposal. In addition to this court, as we have said, there is a change in the rules for the application of the funds, which are further oriented, even more subordinated, creating more difficulties in the implementation of projects of scope and public interest with the application of these funds in accordance with the mechanisms for the submission and submission of national policies to the guidelines drawn up from Brussels, the so-called « structural reform agenda ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well from our own experience in our country, which means, from a social and economic point of view, the attack on the social functions of the State and the attack on social and labour rights. It is with this agenda that we are now trying to align the funds of the European Union in an even stronger way. The CFP has already made it clear that, even if this proposal kept the funds that the country expects to receive in the financial framework that now ends, the result would be that which we are observing. The European Union funds have never compensated for the negative impact these policies have had on our country. What we have been checking is the compromise of the country's development potential, which causes today the money coming out of the country in the form of interest, profits and dividends already far exceeds the one that enters Portugal under the so-called'structural and cohesion funds'. This is the objective reality that we have and that it is important to change. We clearly say that the Commission's proposal would not be acceptable or that the existing national envelope should be maintained, but the European Commission's option is to cut these funds, and a significant cut. The result is more than obvious: by maintaining all the instruments that have led to this divergence, reducing what would enable us to counter this problem, particularly through cohesion, what we will have more asymmetries, more divergence, more problems for our country and an even greater distance from those who have systematically gained from this integration, i.e. the great powers of the European Union. This is therefore an unacceptable proposal for Portugal. It is therefore essential to call upon the Portuguese Government to take a firm and vigorous stand in the defence of national interests. It is not enough to demand that there be no reduction in the amounts allocated to the country, it is necessary to question the criteria, priorities, guidelines and policies currently under way in the European Union. Portugal cannot accept the impositions that are placed on it nor can it be subject to such impositions. The CFP draws attention to the fact that no multiannual financial framework can be approved without the consent and agreement of all Member States. Not only can the Portuguese Government ignore this instrument as it should use it as a safeguard factor for national interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u91	The Bureau records the registration of Mr António Lima Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, your intervention, in terms of which it has been made, calls into question the whole European project. Today, we are talking about the multi-annual financial framework that is at the door and I would like to discuss it in the light of the fact that the honourable Member has now presented us with absolutely no use, even more so than the honourable Member is not. He rejects the European Union, but alternatively he wants what? Close the borders of the country? It rejects this multiannual financial framework, but alternatively, what do you want? A five-year plan in the style of the former Soviet Union?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u93	Oh...! That's too low!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u94	What matters here today is, without radicalism, improving for Portugal the next multiannual financial framework. in this sense, the proposals presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP here today are a good contribution and should therefore be approved and given much attention by the government. It is with this in mind that I would like to ask you about something that you have not made any reference to—and that also has meaning—that is the proposal for the common agricultural policy after-2020. The Government has come to sing victory for Portugal not to have cuts in the first pillar and to be of the least lost countries, but in the first pillar, Portugal receives less than 25 % per hectare than the European average. Singing victory for no cuts, maintaining this brutal difference, is unacceptable. But more serious is what is anticipated for the second pillar. Portugal may be the country most affected by the simple reason for the second pillar representing 50 % of the national CAP cake, when the European average is only 20 %. When it is said that cuts in the CAP mainly affect the second pillar, this may mean cuts for Portugal higher than twice the European average, and that is even more unacceptable. It should be recalled here, therefore, that the Minister for Agriculture has taken the main objective of maintaining the same financial envelope of the CAP for Portugal, but so far the Portuguese Government has repeatedly failed in this objective. Maintaining the same financial envelope of the CAP for Portugal is the minimum requirement of the Government, because the CAP, contrary to what the CFP has repeatedly stated, is the most powerful instrument for modernising our agriculture. It is not as the PCP has been saying, saying that the CAP is an instrument to the service of capitalism and international agribusiness. Why does Portuguese agriculture competitive, modern, innovative, export so much scare them? That's my question. Mr Deputies, this modern, innovative, exporting agriculture is not that of large international conglomerates, it is, in its overwhelming majority, made by dynamic Portuguese entrepreneurs and by family farms. This agriculture generates employment and economic growth, this agriculture has contributed in an extraordinary way to fulfilling that national desire to achieve, in the medium term, the balance of our agri-food trade balance and this agriculture must be strongly supported by the new CAP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u95	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Lima Costa, the problem of bringing the already written question before hearing the CFP's intervention is that it then runs the risk of doing what you have done, which was comments that are purely and simply unobstructed and that are right next to what was the position that the CFP brought here. We have come to draw attention to the serious problems of this multi-year financial framework and the impact it has on our country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u97	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u98	...we did not come to align in those diatrics, in that caricature that Mr. Deputies brought home. So I'm sorry to inform you, but you just got right next door. Mr. Deputies, for the next time you might have better luck!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u99	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u100	Indeed, what we brought here was the denunciation of a situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u101	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u102	He will have to recognise that, over the years, in successive debates, the CFP has drawn attention to the impact on the Portuguese productive sectors, particularly for national agriculture, of the policy options underlying successive financial frameworks, the successive agricultural policies common at European Union level, for an CAP which is essentially liberalised, for a policy of liberalising economic relations between economies and countries, for a profound inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u103	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u104	As much as your banking colleagues continue to shout, I will not fail to reply to the honourable Member that, over the years, the attitude of his party and elected representatives, either in the national government—in successive governments—but also in Brussels and in relation to the European Commission itself, has been abdicating and giving of the national interest to the interests of the most powerful powers of the European Union, and that is also what happens at the level of the common agricultural policy. We still remember the debate that we had in the committee possibly about the new financial framework that is planned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u105	But answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u106	... with cuts that may reach 15 % and not 5 %, as was initially indicated, including 10 % in direct aid, and even more severe, 25 % in rural development, this is the second pillar particularly relevant to our country. And we asked: Where does this come from? Are you coming to shore? He disembarked and showed up at the sea foam?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u107	But who's in the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u108	This was done within the framework of a European Commission whose interests have been assumed over the years by the PS, the CDS and the PSD, Mr Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u109	Look at the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u110	You cannot deny this valuable heritage that you have had over the years, because this is the Europe that you have pushed us. Here we have the result of the policies of European capitalist integration that you have brought! Here is this wonderful competition that you have announced to us, the competition of the clay pan with the iron pan. Guess who wins, sir! Is that what you're talking about? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u111	You didn't answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u112	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has always argued that the financing of the new challenges cannot be done at the expense of agricultural policies and cohesion. We defend until there are two areas of agricultural policy that should be strengthened within the framework of cohesion policy: climate change and forest. The recent statements by Commissioner Phil Hogan that direct payments in Portugal, not the first pillar, will not be affected by the proposed reduction of 5 % in the CAP budget, on the contrary, leave us nothing quiet. Portugal is the only country in the European Union which has a fair sharing between the two pillars and therefore it is imperative to ensure that the maintenance of direct payments in the first pillar will not be the currency of exchange for a reduction of the remaining CAP funds. next Friday, we will know, as has already been said, the Commission's proposals for agriculture and rural development, and it is true that there will be cuts, either in the remaining funds of the first pillar or in the second pillar — rural development. We already know that the Commission imposes an increase in the co-financing of the Member States by 10 percentage points in the second pillar and we also know that the Minister of Agriculture accepts this solution because he says that it allows to compensate for a possible reduction in the budget, which for the CDS is unacceptable. [[CDS-PP applause.]] A minister who, for two and a half years, had no political will or weight to strengthen the allocation of the RDP (Rural Development Programme) with State budget funds will now do so in the next programming period? If the Government can arrange more than EUR 500 million for rural development in the next Community framework, why not so far?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u115	This is it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, a very bad warning for Portuguese farmers. Another area which the CDS considers essential and which, in our view, has not been assured or defended by the Government in the best way is the question of water and climate change, which are inevitable and which are already there, are not for tomorrow! We have passed from the biggest drought of the last 80 years to the most rainy month of March since there are historical records, and no one seems to remember that there has been drought in the last three years. Several studies indicate that Portugal will be one of the countries of Europe most vulnerable to these extreme phenomena, with longer drought periods and very short periods of high rainfall. It is therefore necessary to prepare a network of rivers and rivers for the existence of filles and droughts. It is obvious that there is no unlimited availability of the resource, but that does not mean that we have to keep our arms crossed waiting for the water that falls in a very short period to go all over the sea, as Mr Environment said, without doing anything to retain it at that time so that we can use it later. That is why we believe that combating climate change in Portugal is too small and too small for the government to decarbonise the economy. They will tell us that we should invest and bet on re-use of water as a solution. The European Commission itself has very recently put forward proposals in this regard. For the CDS this solution is not to be discarded, but it is not at all sufficient for the needs of an accelerated Mediterranean climate. They will also say that agriculture is the most water-consuming activity and therefore efficiency needs to be improved. We say that agriculture does not consume, agriculture uses water. There is much to be done with regard to improving efficiency, but essentially in ancient public regazios, some over half a century old. Modern, public and private regadios are extremely efficient and Portuguese farmers are not left behind the best in Europe and in the world. [[CDS-PP applause.]] However, this solution is also not sufficient for the needs that are approaching our climate. We therefore understand that it is necessary to increase the country's water storage capacity. We need to keep the water when it falls so we can use it later, when it is necessary. We therefore defend a true National Barrage Plan, which guarantees the capacity for inter-annual regularization, either by the volumes stored, or by the possibility of interconnecting with each other, not of dams of high hydropower potential that so many criticize, but of multi-use dams, for water and not only, that allow us to avoid situations like the one we have recently lived in Viseu or in the Sado Valley. We defend that these investments must be financed by cohesion funds and not by CAP funds. We are not talking about economic profitability in these situations, we are talking about so much territorial cohesion, which cannot be defended in speech and left in the drawer in action. Finally, the new challenges of the forest, investments of a relevant scale for issues of defense against rural and non-forest fires, as we say very well now, have to be framed in cohesion policies and not in CAP policies. The Government advocates, in its speech, a strengthening of complementarity between rural development, the CAP and cohesion policy. The Government must therefore defend this complementarity in concrete proposals. We need a government that really supports the interests of Portugal and Portuguese farmers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u116	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions presented today recommend that the Government defend national interests within the framework of the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027. But what this debate shows is the political reprogramming effort that the PSD and CDS are doing in relation to the past. They're making a deep cleanup to the mistakes of their government. In many areas they now defend the opposite of what they have done in the past, they demand the opposite of what they have done and that they have negotiated with the European institutions for the period 2014 - 2020, they recommend the opposite of what they have achieved in power, they are in political reprogramming. But farmers in general, livestock producers, forest producers, whether large or small, of the North or South, conventional or biological, finally, the whole rural world knows that this government is where it should be: in defence of national production capacity, in strengthening its capacity for adaptation and modernization, in support of its export effort, whether by land, by sea or by air, in safeguarding the landscape, ecological and cultural heritage of rural territories. The PS is where it has always been! [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, we do not need to reprogram, but we want to take advantage of the reprogramming of the current framework to correct what we inherited and defend the interests of Portugal in Horizon 2030. We share points of defence of the interests of our agriculture in relation to the current Community framework and to the future, but we do not forget a past which has been harmful to the interior, which has forgotten the particularities of our agriculture, which has not given due attention to forest, climate change and much of the country. As in the Alqueva, after all, it is easy to be defended by all, but we defended and gave the decisive impulse. In any case, we welcome all the convergences in the defence of Portuguese agriculture in Portugal and Brussels. They did not always stay on the same side in the defense of Portugal. The government has done domestic work, has the courage to establish red lines, limits, and clearly says what we want and what comes to defend. We therefore call for the maintenance of the CAP budget; it is important to ensure that there is no differentiated treatment between the two pillars; we demand the defence of the current 'key of distribution' of envelopes between the Member States; we support the mechanisms for correcting direct payments, particularly in convergence, in redistributive payment, in capping and in payment for small agriculture. We support external convergence: dual legitimacy in the position, which takes, to defend continuity to the process of external convergence, initiated in the current programming period. It is noted that the process of external convergence of direct payments began in the current programming framework, with the gradual approximation of a third of the difference to 90 % of the average value per hectare verified in the European Union. We support the opposition to the co-financing of direct aid; the defence of the maintenance of the exceptional level for Portugal of the envelope of the linked direct payments. We want and support a green architecture, opening up to the minimum allocation of CAP financial envelopes for environmental protection and climate change. We defend the importance of paying services, public and environmental goods; openness to reformulate the payment of greening in a strengthened condition and in measures more targeted at local and regional needs. We support a new financing model, support for a new model with greater subsidiarity, provided that it introduces greater simplification in the rules of eligibility and proportionality of controls. We support the need for explicit and flexible support for irrigation and forests, not forgetting the Mediterranean forest, the need to continue support for innovation, the installation of young farmers and small agriculture and the transfer between pillars to around 10 %. We defend a two-year transitional period, with the use of current rules, with a new budget, to allow the new strategic plan involving the two pillars of the CAP. in a negotiation that is going to be very difficult, certainly marked by Brexit, we have, fortunately, a party, a Minister of Agriculture, and a government that knows what we want and what we need and who know the European institutions well. We defend an CAP that serves farmers, Europe, Portuguese and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u118	Two honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, but I remember that Mr Pedro do Carmo has very little time to answer. To make the first request for clarification, Mr. António Ventura, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived at this time of debate, are interested in understanding some issues related to the outermost regions. Of course, PSD has come to defend that Article 349. it must provide a legal, political and institutional scope, in order to favour the outermost regions and correct their shortcomings, in addition to meeting the decision of the Court of Justice of 15 December 2015. in this House, we have also tabled a resolution, which has been adopted, concerning the specific funds for the outermost regions with regard to the POSEI programme ( Programme of specific options for remoteness and insularity in the outermost regions), which recommends that this programme should have greater scope, greater application and greater financial allocation. This programme has a deficit of around EUR 10 million in the Azores and EUR 5 million in Madeira. What is needed at the moment, since the government is not here, is to ask the parties supporting the Government what the commitment will be to the POSEI programme for the two outermost regions of Portugal. This is irrespective of Portugal's negotiating outcome in the European Union, which is at present and in particular with regard to the POSEI programme, the commitment to the outermost regions in the financial, social and economic fields. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u120	To request clarification, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u121	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Carmo, here accused the CDS of recommending the opposite of what he had done in the government. I would remind you, Mr President, that it was possible to conclude the Alqueva 15 years before the previous government transferred funds from the RDP to cohesion funds precisely.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u123	It was the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ) and the Cohesion Fund that paid part of the Alqueva investment. [[PS protests.]] Also in the forest, Mr Deputies, it was with the previous government that for the first time investments in forest fire defence were possible to be partially eligible in cohesion funds. Therefore, Mr President, we are not like you, who follow that peak of "well preaches Frei Tomás, do as he says, do not do as he does".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u125	In conclusion, the question I leave to you, Mr President, is: what is the guarantee that you leave us, and that they leave, above all, to Portuguese farmers, that they will have EUR 500 million to put into agricultural funds when they cannot even execute EUR 100 million in the RDP every year? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u126	To reply, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, let's not talk about the Alqueva, because it is a matter that is very dear to us. Fortunately, the PS came to the government and solved all the legacy they left. Given the lack of funding to continue Alqueva, it was necessary to inject millions to conclude it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more: the government has found an emergency situation and has brought more than 230 million euros, and Alqueva will have more than 50 000 races. And the government will continue to transform the Someone. Alqueva is a revolution that has only now begun and is always due, since its construction, to the Socialist Party and to its governance. Mr António Ventura, the issue of the outermost regions is, of course, assured, our commitment. You insist on being part of the problem rather than the solution, so I would like to tell you that, on our part, this issue is safeguarded and guaranteed with a new regulation on the issues of the outermost regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u128	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we reach the end of this debate, it seems to us that there are three points relevant to what we are discussing here today. First of all, the CDS and PSD present two proposals, in which they effectively deal with their positions in negotiating the next multiannual financial framework, and appear to forget, on purpose, the existence of a possible committee, whose establishment they voted in favour, to discuss Parliament's position in relation to that same negotiation. Mrs. Members, dozens of hearings have already been held, so many other hearings are scheduled and written contributions have been requested from various entities and organizations. So the conclusion here is that PSD and CDS are trying to reduce the role of Parliament itself in this debate, and that is always regrettable. They also know that, by trying to intrude their own position on the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, they are walking in an increasingly isolated way, because it is not withdrawing the debate from Parliament that will be able to have any public and fruitful debate on this matter. The Left Block does not contribute to the reduction of the role of Parliament, it has never done so and will therefore continue to make its criticisms and proposals within the respective committee. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, it is obvious to all parties and to all parliamentary groups that there is an objective problem at the moment as regards the values that Portugal will lose and the proposal that is made by the European Commission, which is bad - we have already said so at various times. in the total national cohesion envelope, it is estimated at present that Portugal will lose around EUR 1600 million, and there is also a very objective problem: it is that almost 80 % of Portuguese public investment depends precisely on structural funds and, in particular, on cohesion funds. Therefore, the court announced in cohesion means that many projects that are important to the country will lose, and much, and that is why we have come to criticise this option that was made by the European Commission. But there is more: the criteria for the distribution of funds by countries themselves are now being challenged and will change, effectively harming the smaller countries. however, to withdraw this discussion and try to make it not to have a connection with what really interests it is to do the discussion completely next door. Mrs. Members of the CDS and PSD, Portugal will lose these cohesion funds because of the European Commission's political choices, and it is not worth being here trying to turn off the options of increasing money for militarization, for example, of cuts in cohesion and agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u131	These are political choices, and that has always been the case, especially with regard to the European Commission. That is why the proposals presented, although having slight differences, are all sick of the same evil, which is the total lack of self-criticism to the European project, which has objectively come to deepen the inequalities and asymmetries between countries and regions, which has been imposing austerity measures based on an idea of liberal society in the economy, but conservative in the customs, and whose only response to the growth of populism is the path of militarization and the increase of money for militarization. This will never count on the support of the Left Block, as we have said several times and as we always say. as far as European matters are concerned, we have been absolutely coherent. however, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of notion is incredible when the cuts are criticized in cohesion policy and in the common agricultural policy, while supporting the inclusion of new headings of militarization, border control, migrant control. No, they're not taking off from each other, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth trying to do this debate, because it is not true. By the way, I leave the following question to the PSD and to the CDS: are cuts in cohesion less recriminal when they serve to increase, and much, militarization? Is that what you want to tell us about this debate? Looks like it is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. while trying to divide this debate is that which becomes clear, and that is exactly where there is the difference between the right and the PS and the left blocks. in this regard, we have always been very clear about the political priorities that have been given by the European Commission, which are wrong and which objectively harm the smaller countries, particularly Portugal. Therefore, the conclusion drawn from this debate is that, in different degrees, CDS and PSD and even PS remain completely deluded about what the European Union truly is. And it's at the expense of that illusion, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next budget will have increases for war and militarization and will have cuts for cohesion and agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u132	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. It was at the expense of this illusion that, for years, the Portuguese were struck by austerity measures, and it is at the expense of that illusion that today the Portuguese Government maintains a healthy obsession with reducing the deficit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, illusion is not a way in politics, nor does it even offer solutions, as we have seen here in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u134	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have said today, here in this debate, the announced cuts in cohesion and the common agricultural policy will have a profound negative impact on our country. There are a number of issues that have not yet been discussed and that we believe are absolutely fundamental. We're talking about a set of problems that are about to be solved. Also recently, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has alerted the Assembly of the Republic to the need for this investment and to the importance of the allocation of funds and the strengthening of Community funds to the local administration itself. We are, of course, talking about investments in road and rail infrastructures at the level of the urban circle of the water, but without the conditionalisms that are being placed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u136	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u137	I will finish, Mr. President. We talk about investments in collective equipment in the area of education, health and the protection of cultural heritage. With regard to this matter, it is also curious that the PSD and the CDS have considered negative priorities in the Community framework which is now in force and under way, and that these issues are not brought to debate either, for further discussion, because we are talking about fundamental aspects up to the cohesion of our own territory, for the elimination of asymmetries in the national territory. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u138	I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are a number of key issues that citizens are increasingly asking us: what can the European Union do for us? How do European policies contribute to putting the economy at the service of communities? How does people value, creating jobs and reducing social disparities? How do you intend to combat territorial asymmetries, guaranteeing the same opportunities and quality of life to those who live in large urban centers and in low-density territories? What are the responses of European policies to the problems of demography, inequalities, digital society and climate change? A Europe in which people can trust is a Europe capable of ensuring a concrete and effective answer to all these issues. A Europe of which we can take pride is a Europe where we all live with dignity, a Europe that guarantees decent work for all, a Europe that leaves no one behind. This is our Europe, and it is with this ambition regarding European policies that we should intervene in the negotiation process of the new Union budget. We are sure that it is with this ambition that the Government, supported by this parliamentary majority, will defend the interests of Portugal and the interests of Europeans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u140	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u141	Mr. President : The negotiations under the next multiannual financial framework take place in special circumstances, in particular as a result of the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union. We all know, political parties and government, that the proposal submitted by the European Commission on 2 May does not favour Portugal. It reduces the amount allocated to true solidarity policies, cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Let me remind you of the words of Mr Socialist Party's speech when he said that the government is where it should be. If it is where it should be, it should be present in this debate because of the importance of the draft resolutions that are being discussed here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u142	In fact, we recommend that the Government intransigence defend the interests of Portugal. The Government should also remind the European Commission that in its proposal it is stated that the next multiannual financial framework should better align available funding with the current political priorities of the Union which, in particular, guarantee an inclusive European Union and protect social rights. We all know the scope and nature of the challenges facing the world of work and society in general. Some trends are new, others are older, but they involve a greater number of measures to deal with them. I highlight two examples: changes in social structures, as well as family and work patterns and a longer working life. The European pillar of social rights, if properly implemented, enables us to respond to these current and future challenges and meet the basic needs of the population, as well as ensure better adoption and implementation of social rights. That is also why we recommend that the Government defend national interests in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u143	To conclude the debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know the importance of the next Community framework for the development of Portugal, for our economic growth and for the solidification of employment growth, in order to ensure social cohesion and territorial cohesion of which we need so much. Unfortunately, the 2017 fires were a brand, they were a sign of many things that were wrong and that we have to know how to correct. Of course, having a policy of social and territorial cohesion also means having the ability, from the point of view of the Community funds, to highlight Community funds for the interior of the country. We know the importance of Community funds to continue to work on improving the qualification of Portuguese, especially in such a difficult time, that it is time for us to be on the verge of a new phenomenon in the economy, the phenomenon of digitisation and the new fourth economy. We know that we need to use Community funds to reverse the great demographic winter in which we are involved. It is precisely for this reason that the CDS, in January this year, presented a draft resolution demonstrating very clearly what our option is and what our priorities are in negotiating the next Community framework. When we do this, we believe it is very important to open up the political debate, but today bringing this debate to the plenary of Parliament is a national imperative. Yesterday, a proposal from the European Commission to reduce cohesion funds by 7 % was even known, and that is exactly why the Portuguese Parliament must now take a decision on an issue as important to our future as that of continuing this negotiation of the multiannual financial framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u146	And we do so with a big difference in relation to some voices we have heard here today in the plenary. when listening to the Communist Party and the Left Block remind me a little of those people who go to a party and spend all the time saying bad: they don't like the party, they don't like the company, they don't like the food, they don't like the music, they don't like anything, and in the end they complain that the party, still above it, ended early. This is exactly the position of the Communist Party and the Left Block : they do not like the European Union, they do not like the Community funds, but they still say that the Community funds are few and that we should receive more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is exactly why, too, the CDS is right in this same schedule. We have made this schedule so that we can demonstrate and tell the government — who has chosen not to be here, what the brand — that, in our view, financing new policies cannot be done at the expense of cohesion and agricultural funds. Here beside us, our Spanish neighbours have already shown that the new policies will not take money for cohesion and also there the Communist Party, the Left Block and, in part, the Socialist Party are wrong when they say that what is going to happen is a reduction in cohesion money for that very reason. That's not true, just look at the side of the border. from our point of view, it is essential, at this moment, that we can have a very thorough debate on what will be the continuation of this same negotiation. We know that this negotiation is long, that it is likely to end in May of next year, but it is now that many choices are made. So far, the government has failed in its strategy and is failing in its target. For a long time, the government did not call, it did not want to listen, it did not want to talk to a number of other countries that had exactly the same problems as we had, the so-called cohesion friends, which this government ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u148	He preferred to go after some of the mermaid that passes through Europe. We all remember the charm they had with the former Italian Prime Minister, who at this moment is as it is! We all remember the enormous charm they had with their friends from SYRIZA, who are at the moment as they are! We all realize that at this moment they are very delighted with some new voices, but curiously, I have not seen these so friendly countries of the Socialist Party's Government defending Portugal in this negotiation. What we are concerned about is that at the moment when we look objectively at the Commission's proposal, particularly as regards cohesion, we realize that Portugal is the only country in the south, along with Malta, where cohesion's money declines. In all others cohesion funds increase and of the five countries that have interventions, precisely because they have had a number of financial difficulties, Portugal is, together with Ireland, the only one that does not have an increase in cohesion funds. So we realize that the strategy of the Socialist Party is wrong, the target is wrong, and that is what we have to correct over the next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I want to leave one last question. I have heard here saying, by the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party, that the debate should not be held here in plenary, but, yes, in the Commission that is meeting on this matter. I understand very well what you want with this omission to bring the debate to plenary. You want to protect the government from the mistakes that have been made in this area. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I understand that you, in order to protect the government, liked that we were all quiet, that we didn't talk, that we didn't ask questions. We are not of these, we are of those who do not lower their arms in the defense of national interest, we are of those who do not silence their voice in the defense of national interest, we are of those who always take, in the first and only instance, the defense of a single interest, and this interest is called Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u151	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, has benefited from a transfer of PSD time to the CDS-PP which must be marked. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, so we are going to move on to the voting period. I would ask the services to prepare the electronic voting for quorum verification, and in the meantime I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u152	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 135 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August, which regulates the hearing of government bodies belonging to the autonomous regions ( ALRAM ) ; draft Lein No 899 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish a awareness campaign for the importance of voluntary delivery of firearms and ammunition, giving a new deadline for voluntary delivery without criminal procedure ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1663 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the main route No 3 ( IP3 ) ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the implementation of a common, uniform and comparable hospital register in the National Health Service of people with multiple sclerosis ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission and 1665 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government resolve the problems arising from intensive and superintensive monocultures ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u153	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed with the quorum verification using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 211 meetings, to which 1 is added by Mrs Elza Pais, by 212 Members, and so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. First of all, we shall vote No 554 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Durval Ferreira Marques, presented by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u154	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 26 Durval Ferreira Marques, a figure of great prestige in Portuguese communities around the world, particularly in South Africa, where he lived for about 40 years. Born in 1933, and natural of Peace of Brandão, he graduated in economics at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Porto before he settled in South Africa, where he served as administrator of the Bank of Lisbon & South Africa, having been the first President of the Portuguese Society of Benefit and Chairman of the Portuguese Committee at the South Africa Foundation. However, his great community work was the decisive participation in the foundation of the Bacalhau Academy 50 years ago in Johannesburg, a movement of social solidarity involving today thousands of Portuguese, a little around the world, supporting cases of extreme shortage and institutions, which sometimes remain only thanks to such aid. Due to such association and social action, Durval Marques is thus recognized as a reference figure between the generality of our communities abroad and even in the national territory, where its action has gained relevance in recent years. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of Durval Ferreira Marques and presents its most sincere condolences to its family."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We now turn to vote No 555 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Antonio Loja Neves ( BE ), which will be read by Secretary Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u156	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "António Loja Neves died last May 27, at the age of 65. He was a journalist, writer, director, cultural activist, opposition to dictatorship, colonialism and discrimination. Antonio Loja Neves spent part of the youth in Cape Verde and always followed closely the literature and the music of that country. Back in Portugal, he studied medicine and was involved in the fight against dictatorship and colonial war, as well as in cultural agitation activities. He replaced medicine with cinema and in 1978 he was the founder of the Federation of Cinema Clubs. He was co-organizer of the Panorama- Sample of the Portuguese Documentary and the Meeting of Documentary Cinema of Malaposta. He was programme director of Kanema, African Film Festival and Commissioner at luxophone cinema meetings from Brazil to Mozambique and Cape Verde from Ireland to Finland. Graduated in Conduct by the High School of Theatre and Cinema, he was head of the Portuguese Association of Realisers and director of the Cinearma magazine. He performed the Insula and The Silence documentary, wrote poetry and, in 2001, won the Prize of the Portuguese Association of Writers by the book Barcos, Intimas Marcas. Recently, he released the book Armenia : People and Identity, with his companion, Margarida Neves Pereira. Journalist of Express over 30 years ago, Loja Neves was the founder of the SOS Racism association. He recently collaborated in preparing a school debate programme on racism and xenophobia. He was a member of the PCTP / MRPP, founder of the Left Block and founder of the BOOK. With its death, Portugal loses a reference to journalism and the arts, but also to solidarity as civic and political practice. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, signs the death of Antonio Loja Neves, conveying to his family and friends his deep sadness and the most painful grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u157	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed with vote No 552 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the appointment of D. António Marto for Cardinal, submitted by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u158	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « D. António Augusto dos Santos Marto, Bishop of Leiria-Fátima, last Sunday, May 20, was appointed Cardinal by His Holiness, Pope Francis, a choice that recognizes a life of service to the community and the Catholic church, which will culminate on June 29th in the consistory and will have the presence of the 14 cardinals now appointed. D. António Marto was born in 1947 in Tronco, Chaves County, and was ordained in 1971, Presbyterian of the Diocese of Vila Real. In 2000 he was appointed Bishop and Auxiliary Bishop of Braga and Bishop of Viseu, having been appointed, in 2006, Bishop of Leiria-Fátima, office he has so far, always with a spirit of service, humility, simplicity and a particular humanism. This appointment is a cause for pride for the Portuguese Catholic church, Portugal and Portuguese. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Plenary, greets and congratulates Mr. António Marto, who will begin to join the College of Cardinals. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u159	We shall vote for this vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with abstains from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira, Maria Antónia Almeida Santos, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u160	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u161	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u162	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u163	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u166	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u167	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with vote No 553 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings to Prof. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, on the occasion of its 96. the anniversary, presented by PS and PSD Members, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u168	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles was born in Lisbon on May 25, 1922 and completed in 1950 the courses of Agronomic Engineering and Landscape Architecture. With intense public intervention, he has been engaged in civic cases since early, and has participated in the foundation of the National Centre for Culture and the Movement of Independent Monarchs, assuming clear positions against the regime and dictatorship. For Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, the landscape architecture and the political struggle were always inseparable, as if the construction of the country's landscape and economic and social development could not fail to reverse the same drive of active citizenship. On 25 April 1974 he put it at the forefront of the country's political figures. He has exercised several government functions, he was a Member and a author. in political life, among other legacies, left decisive legislation in the fields of environment and spatial planning. Founder of the Portuguese Association of Landscape Architects, Professor Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles taught us to see the territory beyond the sight and to understand that the landscape is the result of a deep relationship between nature and culture. He almost always walked ahead of his time, as if he had the gift of prophecies. And that is perhaps what the country and the Portuguese still owe it: this ability to dream about a better future, teaching us that the construction of the landscape is a civic requirement and an obligation of free women and men. The tragedies of June and October last year returned to us the portrait of an insufferably unbalanced and fragile country. at a time when, in the words of His Excellency the President of the Republic, we are now required to ‘ reinvent what is possible and imperative to restore in people and communities, ’ the example of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles appears to us as a symbol and fundamental inspiring element. Thus, and on the occasion of his birthday, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, greeting and honour Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, highlighting his inspiring example of citizenship and service to the country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u169	We shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS Member Nuno Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u170	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u171	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u172	It is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote to justify my vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u173	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 556/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With praise for the victory of the athlete Tomás Amaral at the World Championship of Aerobic Gynastics, in the category of young people, presented by PS, which will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u174	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On May 27, 2018, the young Azorian Tomás Amaral has won the world competition by age groups of aerobic gymnastics, in the male individual category, on the juvenile stage, held in Guimarães. Tomás Amaral was the first classified, with a total of 19,650 points, having shared the podium with the Russian athlete Damir Manafov and the Romanian Leonard Manta. The young Azorian went up to the highest position of the podium in this world championship, the fruit of dedication, learning and training, after a choreography of difficult execution and that reveal the happiness, taste and talent that his sporting journey ends. Tomás Amaral, 12 years old, has been a practicer of the modality since the age of eight, being an example, as well as a reason for pride for all Portuguese. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic greets and congratulates the athlete Tomás Amaral, recognizing the dimension of his fact and his contribution to the elevation of Portuguese sport, as well as his coach, Alexandra Barroso, the Club of Gymnic Activities of Ponta Delgada and the Federation of Gymnastics of Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u175	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1269 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promptly draw up policy guidelines for the negotiation of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u176	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u177	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u178	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u179	Be registered. We shall then, in general, vote on draft resolution No 1648/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( PSD ), the text of which was replaced at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u180	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u181	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u182	Mr President, considering that the discussion of draft resolution No 1648 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) was only scheduled on Monday and there was an amendment to one point of this project, we require the breakdown of your vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u183	Mr President, I was at Conferences of Leaders which took dozens of hours and concluded that requests for item divisions for votes and requests have to enter the Bureau until the end of the afternoon of the day when the votes will take place. This is independent of the votes by Friday, Thursday, Wednesday or even third.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u184	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u185	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u186	Mr President, you are right about what I have said, and I would like to add something else that I think justifies this vote. We are not voting on the drafts in a global final vote, we are voting on them in general and then we follow the process in the specialty. I therefore think that the breakdown of the vote is not justified. In fact, the same has already happened with another CDS project in which a request was made to disaggregate the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u187	Mr João Oliveira is in conjunction with the Bureau. Let us then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1648/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken, with votes in favour of the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u188	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u190	Mr President, it is to be announced that, since we have not been able to break the vote so that we can vote against the last point, we will present a vote statement on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u191	Does that mean you're going to make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u192	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u193	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u194	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u195	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also present a statement of vote on the last two draft resolutions that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u196	Be registered. The last two diplomas are down to 4. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 410 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion, enhancement and dynamisation of the Montesinho and Douro International ( PCP ) Natural Parks. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1577 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the procedure for the preparation of the Special Programme of the Natural Park of Montesinho, in order to involve in its discussion and weighting the authorities and local authorities and agents of the territory concerned ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on draft resolution No 1605 / XIII / ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reassess the application of the special programmes of natural parks already published and involves in its discussion and weighting the authorities and entities and local agents of the various territories covered ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the Os Verdes CFP and the NAP.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of the process of retraining the planning plan of the Montesinho Natural Park to the special programme ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS, the BE and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the NAP and the abstention from the CFP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1510 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make available the sediments collected in the Tejo River bed to be used as organic fertilizer in poorer soils, avoiding their landfill ( replaced text within the Commission ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1520 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, an intervention in the Formosa River, in the area of Cacela Velha and Fábrica, with a view to preserving the environmental and cultural heritage and the economic activities developed there ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1590/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out dredging of navigation channels and strengthening of donor cords on the coast of Algarve ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1421 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government for the requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( Walls ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Greens and PAN and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1451/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defense of the High School of Rebordosa, in the municipality of Paredes ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1547 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1569/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent re-qualification and rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be read out by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u197	Mr. President and Mr. Members, regarding the judicial proceedings to be taken at the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Viseu, Central Criminal Court of Viseu — Judge 2 Case No 632 / 12.4TALMG, the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees is in order to authorize Mrs Marisabel Moutela ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u199	Mr President, I believe that the Greens have voted in favour of draft resolution No 1614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD, when our sense of vote is abstention. I would therefore like to make this correction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-30.u200	Madam Member, it does not alter the final outcome of the vote and is recorded. Mrs. Members, our next plenary meeting will take place on 5 June at 3 p.m. with the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
