ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The conditions for us to start our work are met. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority will be in favour of determining the opening of the galleries. at the present time, Mr President of the House is absent, because today the funeral of our former colleague João Semedo will be held, which we will have occasion to pay tribute during this session. Before we get on the agenda, we have to give the floor to announce the file to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.os 948 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amendment to the Fiscal Code for Investment, as annexed to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October, as amended by Law No 114 / 2017 of 29 December ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 949 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a special IRS rate table for taxpayers living in interior territories, amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 950 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Tax benefits relating to the installation of undertakings in the territories of the interior, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 951 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Deduction of charges with transport to taxpayers resident in inland territories, amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 952 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Except for notification of vehicle drivers in relief ( twenty-second amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ) ( PCP ), lower than 6. the Commission, 953 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Universalization of oral health care in the National Health Service ( The Greens), which falls to 9. the Commission, 954 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of packaging waste ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 955 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the 6 % VAT rate for entry into art and culture shows ( The Greens ), which fall to 5. the Commission, in connection with 12. the Commission, 956 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion and development of ecotourism ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 957 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the statutes of the Centre for the Promotion and Valuation of the Plateaulo carpet ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 1764 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, from 26 July to 10 September 2018 ( President of the HR ), 1767 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Monitoring Committee of the Definition Process of the « Portugal 2030 Strategy » by the end of February 2019 ( RA President ), 1768 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures and incentives to promote access to water for agricultural purposes under more favourable conditions and the use of surface water resources for irrigation and livestock production ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1769 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent retraining of the Horta Airport ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1770 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government launch an extraordinary competition for access to specialized medical training ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1771 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — At the end of the Fertagus concession and the integration of the Lisbon / Setúbal railway service into the CP ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. It is also necessary to announce the expiry of Parliamentary assessment No 59/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February establishing the basic restrictions or reference levels relating to human exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from lines, installations and other high-voltage and high-voltage equipment, regulating Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September (BE), since all proposals to amend this legislative initiative were rejected at the time of a special vote in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u3	I'm asking the ladies. Members in favour of not promoting « meetings » within the Hemicycle, in addition to our own general meeting. [[P. Alexandre Quintanilha (St. Alexandre Quintanilla) Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much for your understanding. Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda concerns the assessment of petition No 410 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They request that an amount be entered to support sterilizations to dogs and cats in the State Budget for 2018 ( Maria Margarida Dias da Silva Garrido and others) together with, in general, draft resolutions 1660 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring and strengthening of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals ( BE ), 1710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess compliance with Law No 27 / 2016 and continue to invest in sterilisation and awareness campaigns ( PAN) and 1715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the impact of the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August prohibiting the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population, favouring sterilization ( PCP ). To initiate the debate and present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor. [[Pause.]] There seems to be a small technical difficulty on the part of the Left Block, so if there is no drawback, then we turn to the next speaker after what I will once again give the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, then, to an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to data from the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ), in 2017, nearly 42 000 animals were received at the official collection centres. These data do not, of course, count the animals collected by the zoophyll associations, as if they were likely to count the triplicate number. There are many, there are too many animals on the streets, either because they are victims of abandonment or because they are victims of ill-treatment, either because they are the victims of unresponsible owners or breeders, who let their animals procreate without any control. There must be a widespread commitment to sterilization, as the law already provides, which must be fully and systematically implemented by the municipalities with erring animals and disadvantaged families and strongly advised and motivated by the others. Unfortunately, only a few municipalities are truly committed to the need to control the animal population ethically. Many are still the municipalities that maintain their position of total contempt for animals and their well-being. Even after the adoption in the State budget for 2018 of the NAP measures, amounting to EUR 2 million, for the construction and modernisation of the official animal collection centres, to create conditions for the municipalities to be able to proceed with sterilizations and to carry out campaigns to raise awareness of the need for sterilization and combating abandonment, there are still many municipalities that resign from their responsibilities, despite the State support lines. Still, we will not give up and continue to give voice to the animals and associations that, every day, are on the ground, replacing the municipalities in those that, decades ago, are their obligations. I conclude by congratulating the campaign for sterilization of dogs and cats for bringing this petition to debate in Parliament as well as all petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u5	The small difficulty that has been solved recently, yes, has the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u6	Mr President, I thank you for your attention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Law No 27 / 2016, which determines the obligation of sterilizations and non-slaughter, approved unanimously in this House, will enter into full force in September this year. However, there has been little desire on the part of all those involved to ensure that these political and budgetary options ensure that legislation is fully implemented and complied with. The responsible State Secretaries took one year to make the information available and, when they did, it was fairly and systematically. The Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary also does not provide information, does not communicate properly with the municipalities and even obstructs communication between them and associations and municipal veterinarians. In addition, the Government has been reluctant to make the funds entered in the State Budgets for 2017 and 2018 available in a diligent manner. In 2017, there would be €500,000 for municipalities to update the official collection centres, but there was no great commitment by the government to the disclosure and use of this money, nor was there any concern to realize that support will be developed in respect of this Law of not slaughter and support for sterilizations. We know that the problem of erring animals gets worse every year — the latest data account for an increase of more than 10 000 erring animals — and we know that sterilization programmes are an effective way of controlling the number of erring animals, which is a problem of all and therefore a responsibility of all. In 2018, an amount of EUR 2 million was entered in the Budget, and the Left Block still proposed an amount of €800 000, specifically for sterilization programmes. This is because it is known and proven that this is the most effective way to ensure that errant animals do not end up multiplying and do not end up being deposited or slaughtered on any channel. This amount, which we know is necessary to sterilize about 30 000 animals, has not been entered. And by 2017, animals in collection centres were already 40 000. We have resubmitted a project to make this money available, which has been brought back down again. And yet, what exists? There is now a support of €500 000 for sterilizations which has been poorly disclosed, which municipalities are not using and to which they do not access due to lack of knowledge or communication from DGAV. in this sense, and because there is still much to be done in this area, we propose, with our draft resolution: to prepare quarterly reports to follow up the implementation of the appropriations for sterilizations and for updating and recovery of the centres of official animal collection; to reinforce the funds available this year with at least €300,000 more than the amount initially proposed; in case of non-use of the total amount of EUR 2 million in the State budget for 2018, to affect the remainder of a public public campaign for the sterilization of errant animals; and, finally, to support this sterilization of errant animals. As I said, this is a problem of everyone and, ultimately, it is also a public health problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u7	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I appeal to the parliamentary groups that wish to intervene and that have not yet entered the favour of doing so. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Moreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting the subscribers of the petition under discussion, who, by using this instrument of political participation, request the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic in order to contribute to ensure that Law No 27 / 2016 is brought to practice. We recall that it was from a draft law submitted by the CFP for the creation of a network of official animal collection centres which this Parliament unanimously approved the end of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control and which arrived at Law No 27 / 2016. It was also with the presentation of a PCP initiative, in April 2017, which culminated in Ordinance No 146 / 2017, which were defined the form and deadlines for the lifting of animal collection centres and existing needs as a precondition for the implementation of their construction or resizing in order to ensure that the country is equipped with a network of animal collection centres capable of responding to the objectives set out in the law. in this sense, the PCP presents the draft resolution under discussion today, which aims to evaluate the impact of Law No 27 / 2016. The results of the evaluation report on the impact of the Act are missing. It is essential that the necessary measures be taken to meet the legally determined deadlines and objectives. The official animal care centres are a fundamental instrument and we have, throughout the country, some examples of good treatment and care practices for errant animals, which demonstrate that it is possible not to use slaughter as a solution to the problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u10	... but we still have a long way to go until the uniformization of procedures in all regions. We strengthen the need for a dynamic link between the government, authorities, animal protection associations and non-governmental environmental organizations so that legislation can be implemented. We know that passing from a slaughter paradigm to a logic of sterilization implies involvement of the population and state investment. It is essential to promote awareness campaigns for the sterilization of animals, such as breeding control, with families, especially the most deprived. All those who choose to have a pet, regardless of their economic condition, must have a public and veterinary service with free sterilization and vaccination of animals. We believe that there must be an effective strengthening of animal protection through adequate monitoring of compliance with the legal provisions that safeguard their well-being by providing the competent authorities with the necessary material and human resources so that these supervisory functions can be adequately ensured. In fact, it will soon be useful to improve animal protection laws if the appropriate conditions are not created so that the provisions contained in the legislation are brought into practice and result in real and effective protection of animals. The main objective of the CFP intervention is to fight for the full compliance of Law No 27 / 2016 by the Government, with a view to safeguarding animal welfare. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this speech with a greeting to the petitioners, who, with their gesture, show the vitality of civic participation in representative democracy. Law No. 27 / 2016, which approves measures for the creation of a network of official animal collection centres and establishes the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population, favouring sterilization, was an important step involving association movements and non-governmental organizations of environment and animal protection, because this cannot only be a practice of criminal law, it must also be a civic culture. It was recognized the fundamental role of the authorities as better placed in the field as they are responsible for identifying local needs and management, starting an option strategy for sterilization as a priority. With Order No 3283 / 2018, the Government has made available financial support for official municipal or intermunicipal centres. We wish to increase the significant number of councils that do not yet have a formalised collection centre and therefore support the programme that the Government has set up for the construction and modernization of official collection centres, with the sum of EUR 1 million. It should therefore be noted that the Government and the municipal chambers have started the necessary and possible efforts in order to comply with the deadlines and objectives laid down in the diplomas in question. For this reason, we find it right to wait for the real needs to be raised at the end of the two years scheduled before taking any further steps. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are sure that this reality is and will continue to be properly monitored and, if necessary, additional measures will be considered to comply with Law No 27 / 2016, so that animal welfare and sterilization policy can be as widely disseminated by the national territory. at this moment, this is the objective of the Socialist Party, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u13	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the more than 6000 petitioners who have applied for the inclusion of money in the State Budget for 2018 for the sterilization of errant animals. This petition could seem extemporaneous because the State budget for 2018 has already been approved, and the CDS has voted in favour of all the measures concerning the sterilization of errant animals and the strengthening of funds for this purpose, even those that have been rejected and even having the Left Block voted against all our proposals for amendment to the State budget. But in fact, this petition is not extemporaneous, because it entered on November 2, in full discussion of the State budget for 2018, and because the measures announced and put into practice have proved insufficient, in particular due to the delay, either in its operationalization, or also due to the lack of accession of the municipalities. The deadline for the end of slaughter in dogs and cats ends in September this year and the deadline for the adaptation of collection centres should have been completed. What we're watching here, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a move that the parties that support the government have already used us: they make opposition on the street, the government makes ads and little or nothing happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u16	Then, within a few months, they come and vote in favour of the State budget. [[Well, well!]] [[Protests by PS MP Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u17	from the CDS, we will maintain our always consistent position. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u18	We have approved the Law which determined the end of the slaughter of errant animals, we have voted in favour of the proposals for amendments to the State budget and we criticise the measures that are not implemented by the Government. As for the projects presented here, with this request we agree with the need to present to the Assembly of the report provided for in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 114 / 2017. As for the proposals of the NAP and the Left Block, with regard to a possible breach of the data protection law, we really deserve a lot of reservations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Greens is to greet the petitioners who delivered to the Assembly of the Republic petition No 410 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), which is discussed today, and which is expressly requested by the Assembly of the Republic to enter in the State budget a money intended to support the sterilizations of dogs and cats carried out by the municipalities, so that Law No 27 / 2016, approved unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic, is brought to practice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I recall that in the past Parliament, The Greens presented in the Assembly of the Republic draft resolution No 1550 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which was precisely intended to launch a debate in Parliament on the paradigm change in the control of the animal population — to abandon the logic of slaughtering animals to move on to the paradigm of sterilization. This draft resolution was adopted and resulted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 93 / 2015 of 17 July 2015. However, on the basis of a proposal from the PCP, in this legislature, Law No. 27 / 2016 has already been approved, which goes, exactly, in that sense as well. And it was precisely because of the approval of this Law and the need for its compliance that the Greens, when assessing the State budget, presented a very concrete proposal of EUR 2 million for the creation and modernisation of an official animal collection centre network as well. This proposal from the Greens was adopted and we therefore consider it to be an important contribution, but of course it is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen. in this sense, what The Greens understand is that the next State Budget should continue to respond not only to this objective but also to the concrete objective of promoting campaigns to sterilize errant animals and, in our perspective, to adopt abandoned animals, so that what we have built, in terms of resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic and law, effectively passes to the ground and to practice. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for this purpose. The Greens also look forward to the proposals put forward so that, in the background, the needs of the municipalities themselves may be raised in relation to the animal collection centres, as well as an assessment of the impact or needs on the ground, so that we, here in the Assembly of the Republic, can also draw on the appropriate answers to tell the subscribers of this petition that they can continue to count on The Greens, precisely in the sense that there is an implementation of this Law and that in the State budget and in the negotiations we have with the Government, we will certainly not forget this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u21	Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD, is still speaking on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To prohibit slaughter as a form of control of errant animals, starting to do so through sterilization — the object of Law No 27 / 2016, approved here unanimously, is a civil leap in the protection of life and animal welfare. This Law originated in a bill presented here in May 2015 by some 5000 citizens, in a good demonstration of the capacity that citizens have to influence the formulation of public policies. in these times of fragile democracies, it is an obligation for all of us to highlight these signs of vitality of our democratic regime. And, in this perspective, I greet the authors of the petition today in appreciation, petition, this, which puts the finger on the wound in relation to the fulfilment of Law No. 27 / 2016, saying, with all the letters, that what is being done, has a reduced reach, that the State is failing in promoting sterilization campaigns and that the Government and the parties had and have to provide, in the State budgets, the funds necessary for its realization. We agree! We therefore denounce here the hypocrisy of the parties that approve the State budgets. The projects of the Block, the PAN and the PCP, presented the trailer of this petition, have only one objective: to stay in the photograph of the animal friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u24	There is a petition demanding compliance with the Law, as soon as the Block appears to demand the Government EUR 1 million, as saying: « We defend the animals ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u26	If the Block requires, soon the PAN appears, covering the launch with 3 million and saying: "No, no, we are defending the animals". Of course, the PCP and the Greens can't stay behind and soon they're saying, "That's not enough, it needs more. We're defending the animals. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is the same hypocrisy that yesterday was seen in the vote against the reduction in the price of fuels, which they swear to defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u28	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u29	PSD has abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u30	We also want here to denounce the government's cynicism in this matter. This Law gave the Government the responsibility to lead the sterilization process, so that in the next month of September it would once and again end the slaughter of animals in dogs. And the truth is that the government, for incompetence, for inaction, for incompetence, did not comply with the Law and failed and, therefore, ruthlessly, at the last hour, threw some money on the problem and "rocked the water from the hood" to the local authorities. The responsibility for non-compliance lies with the government, but from the next month of September, municipal chambers will suffer the consequences without any fault. The government has cynically set up a trap for municipalities, which has to be denounced and alerted here so that it can still be avoided. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u31	Mrs. Members, let us move to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 243 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for the adoption of a national strategy for the human dignity of homeless persons ( Community Life and Peace — Special Institution of Social Solidarity ). However, I appeal to the parliamentary groups to do the favor of making their inscriptions for the use of the word. For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by complimenting the Community Life and Peace, which has stimulated this petition as well as all petitioners. This is a petition that naturally addresses a social reality that deserves our full attention. Having already developed the National Strategy for Integration of Persons in the Status of Homelessness 2017 - 2023 ( ENIPSA 2017 - 2023 ) — this is, in fact, a question put by petitioners who wanted to adopt exactly a new strategy of intervention in this area—that does not diminish the importance of reflection on the reality of people in homeless situations. This social reality means the running of fundamental rights, so it is important to plan, yes, but to implement and comply with measures and actions for social inclusion, in order to ensure that no one sleeps on the street and that even their possible passage through temporary accommodation is limited to the time necessary to provide him with a decent accommodation, his own housing. We understand that the State cannot resign from its social protection and monitoring functions, nor can it transfer its responsibility to third parties to act so that they may be entitled to live in conditions of dignity. The defined National Strategy and the Action Plan must correspond to the necessary public responses to material and human resources in sufficient numbers to ensure their implementation on the ground. The resolution of this problem, of course, requires cross-cutting measures, but the eradication of this situation is inseparable from structural measures and an integrated intervention to combat poverty and unemployment, to guarantee employment with rights, to value wages, to strengthen social benefits and effective access and full of fundamental rights, such as the right to education, to social protection, to health—and I refer to the various specialities of health, such as visual, oral and mental, the latter being highlighted by several entities and people working with this reality of people in a homeless situation—and to access to public services of quality and proximity and access to a decent housing, as it is, in fact, constitutionally consecrated. It is therefore important to implement a policy of spatial planning and housing aimed at meeting the needs of the people and not for financial or speculative interests. The adoption of targeted measures and immediate response to homeless people is very important and essential, but it must be accompanied by substantive measures which act in the cause of these social situations and which ultimately resolve what is in their origin, so that they do not take place again. This is a social reality which the CFP will continue to monitor and on it will continue to intervene in order to ensure conditions of dignity in the lives of homeless people as well as the fulfilment of their fundamental rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u33	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Community of Life and Peace for the petition that is now under discussion, as well as the thousands of petitioners who have signed it, because they have brought the debate a matter of greatest importance. This petition entered the Assembly of the Republic when it was not yet known nor was it approved and disclosed the National Strategy for the Integration of Persons in a Homelessness Situation, but some of the subjects mentioned in this petition already have a long treatment and a long course of concern, legislative and programmatic framework by the different governments. In 2008 the European Parliament adopted a declaration signed by the States on the commitment to poverty eradication by 2015 and there was a meeting of European Union ministers in the area of housing with the theme « access to housing for vulnerable persons ». The truth is that the commitments and goals established were not achieved, but the Portuguese Government at the time created an institutional group of responsibility of the Social Security Institute, representing various areas of public and private activity, with the aim of developing the national strategy for the integration of homeless people. The National Strategy for the Integration of Homeless Persons : Prevention, Intervention and Monitoring 2009 - 2015 distributed its objectives into two axes, and the Axis 1 was related to the knowledge of the phenomenon, information, awareness and education and the Axis 2 was about the qualification of the intervention. This strategy also included the conduct of an evaluation made at three times: an initial assessment, corresponding to a diagnosis of the situation; an evaluation along the process, in a monitoring logic; and a final assessment of the impact of the Strategy. Only in 2017, with more than one year's delay, was the final assessment disclosed by the current government. But already in July 2015 we had known the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 48 / 2015, which approved the National Habitat Strategy for the period 2015 - 2031, where it stated the measure « encourage the increase of housing solutions for homeless people ». Although we have good documents, such as the National Strategy, the truth is that we have not always managed to implement the goals that we all share and that we return dignity to homeless people. That's our commitment. We welcome the presentation of this petition. It is another occasion for the public debate to take place, certain that, here in the House, on behalf of our competence to monitor and monitor the Government's task, to ensure that this is fully achieved, we will not fail to follow this matter, giving it priority and urgency, because it refers precisely to those among us who are in a more weakened situation and who demand and demand, in all righteousness, that their dignity be resumed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u35	For an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners of the Life and Peace Community who are attending the plenary session. The Socialist Party recognises and welcomes the initiative of civil society, represented here by the Community of Life and Peace, for the adoption of a national strategy for the human dignity of the homeless people, in particular because it is a question that must be disturbed by everyone, but also because this is one of the central concerns of the Socialist Party's Government in the field of social protection. And so much so that it was adopted at the Council of Ministers Resolution No 107 / 2017 of 25 July implementing ENIPSA — National Strategy for the Integration of Persons in a Homelessness Situation. This strategy aims to consolidate a prevention and intervention approach focused on homeless people so that no one has to live on the street because of the absence of a response to their problem. Let us remember that the previous PSD/CDS Government abruptly interrupted the previous Strategy, in the same way, of what it did with other important strategies to promote the living conditions of the Portuguese, as was the case with the abrupt end of the New Opportunities programme. The strategy is based on three fundamental axes: the promotion of knowledge of the phenomenon of homeless people; the strengthening of intervention to promote the integration of homeless people; and the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Strategy. These three axes are executed in biennial action plans, where objectives and activities are perfectly defined, as well as goals, indicators, budgets, timetables and responsible for their implementation. In addition, an Inter-Ministerial Commission was set up, which integrates representatives of the various ministries, strengthening the transversal nature of the Strategy, which is now visible in the adoption of an Action Plan with a biennial budget of more than 60 million euros. This Action Plan was approved by the Minister of Labour on 30 November 2017, and is focused on measures in the context of residential reception, extension and integration of intervention in the field of health and vocational training and integration of homeless people. It is therefore a National Strategy that reflects the government's concern about public social protection policies for the most disadvantaged. It is an important strategy, not only by the financial means which mobilizes but by its innovative approach to the knowledge of the phenomenon and the prevention and integration of homeless people, because it is based on an integrated model of intervention and follow-up by entities accompanying homeless people. We should therefore be satisfied with the opportunity that the Life and Peace Community brings up with this petition and to support the good results that the Strategy adopted by this Government will certainly produce. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u37	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, petition No 243 / XIII ( 2 ) is under discussion in plenary. a ), signed by 2060 petitioners, initiative, this initiative, which arises by the particular institution of social solidarity Community Life and Peace, which calls for the adoption of a national strategy for the human dignity of the homeless. We therefore welcome your initiative and presence here. I would like to take note of the importance of this institution and of the other institutions and people who daily fight in a truly unselfish way for the eradication of this problem in our society. Only knowing in depth the reality in which these people live is that a realistic intervention is achieved and that, often because of the dedication of these teams, one can return the dignity to those who go through these situations. So on behalf of the PSD, thank you very much for your work. I would also like to highlight the importance that our President of the Republic has had in this regard, since throughout his mandate he has put these issues on the agenda through various public interventions, various actions with people in homeless situations, meetings and meetings with various institutions that are dedicated to this cause, in addition to the many appeals he has made with the Government, in a very important contribution to the creation of a new national strategy that responds to the integration of people in homeless situations until 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u40	The PSD, by the voice of its President, Rui Rio, has also had several interventions in this area, being available to collaborate in a national strategy to combat poverty. As the problem of the situation of people without having a difficult solution, we stress that a common strategy of action is imperative, that is, there must be a plan of great proximity between the various agents on the ground and the State. Many are the causes that lead to the existence of people in a homeless situation and today much more are the new social configurations of exclusion and vulnerability that transform the reality of homeless people into a heterogeneous and very complex phenomenon, which requires of us all a very careful and well structured analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u42	That is why the PSD accompanies the object of this petition, in fact, a first step has already been taken to provide for the request made by the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, with the approval of the National Strategy for the Integration of Persons in the Status of Homelessness 2017 - 2023. However, the PSD also reinforces the fact that a well-structured national strategy is fundamental, with an increasingly personalized and tailored intervention to the needs of homeless people, who, in our view, will only be effective with a concerted relationship between the various entities acting on the ground, and who know the realities, the authorities and the central government. In other words, we advocate a national strategy based on real objectives and assessments, for the dignity of our society and for human dignity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the Life and Peace Community as a promoter of this petition and, of course, the 2060 petitioners and petitioners who have also joined this case. We welcome the presentation of this initiative, because we believe it is important to discuss the National Strategy for the Integration of People in a Homelessness Situation, as well as to take advantage of all public opportunities to discuss this topic. For the Left Block, this issue has always been part of its concerns and the political proposals it has put forward over the past few years. In fact, one of the first proposals presented by the Left Block on this matter in the current Parliament, was exactly the need for evaluation of the Strategy that ended in 2015. At that time, we proposed the evaluation of this strategy that had ended and the elaboration of a new one, and yet the National Strategy for the Integration of Persons in a Homelessness Situation is already under way and has also been the target of a much wider debate to society in this Assembly of the Republic. We remember that we proposed, and it was also approved, the possibility of, in other matters, not necessarily linked to the Strategy itself, people without shelter and therefore without address, being able to receive and have access to the RSI (social income of insertion), with the aim of ending with a situation of clear injustice that existed. The State Budget has also included measures proposed by us that are important and have to do with the National Strategy that we are talking about here. On the one hand, the requirements of the various ministries regularly inform the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security of the funds allocated to the measures directed towards this Strategy. This has an important role in the periodic monitoring of the implementation of the Strategy, which is necessarily multidisciplinary, but also has the advantage of measures with real money allocated in various areas and not only in social security. On the other hand, we also include the allocation of funds to allow the participation of people in a homeless situation both at the time of evaluation and at the time of the preparation of the Strategy. This is very important because, in fact, as already mentioned, these strategies, these policies and measures must be worked out and thought together with the people who are in this situation and it is important that they have the material possibility of moving and being able to participate in this process. Therefore, the Left Block remains committed to this matter in several aspects. The claim of the petition, as has already been said, is already under way, however, the debate is still very relevant and very important, so that we can in fact have a public strategy that does not relegate to third parties or to private parties the solutions that are necessary and that it is an integrated strategy, in various aspects, of work, health, education, housing, because without this link between the various proposals, it will be impossible to have a genuine national strategy that can effectively reach everyone and everyone. We therefore welcome the petition and the opportunity for us to address this matter again. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u45	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists of the discussion of petition No 338 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They apply for VAT exemption in the services provided in the study centres and study rooms and explanations and deductions at the IRS as educational expenses ( João Miguel Rodrigues Cavaco et al.) together with, in general, the projects of lein.o 919 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code in order to exempt from this tax the school explanation and support services provided by the study centres ( CDS-PP ) and 921 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In addition to the IRS Code, in order to allow lessons on subjects of official school in schools and study rooms and explanations to be deducted as educational expenses ( CDS-PP ). To present the initiatives and to speak on the petition, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 6000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, calling for the end of discrimination of tax treatment in respect of study centres and study rooms and explanations. We all know that there are a significant number of students and their families who use the explanation service for strengthening or recovering learning. We can debate what eventually fails in the education system for this to happen—and it happens on this scale—but that is not the debate for us to call this petition today. The petition specifically requests equal treatment in the VAT Code for explanation service providers, be a private or a company, and also calls for the same tax treatment for families, so that they can deduct these education costs from the collection, regardless of the legal nature of the service provider. What is currently happening is that if a family opts for the hiring of explanations to a study centre, i.e. to a company, the provision of this service is taxed at the general rate of 23 %, but if the same service is contracted to a particular person there is no VAT payment since these providers are exempt under Article 9. the VAT code. This creates discrimination in favour of study centres, which violates the principle of competition and fiscal neutrality, in that the application of tax law should not result in situations of inequality. On the other hand, these services are not recognised as education services and, as such, are not covered by collection deductions, except in cases where there is VAT exemption, once again benefiting private providers. The current situation objectively discriminates against study centres, as well as families who choose to entrust school support to their children to companies, so the CDS considered it necessary to follow this petition, changing the tax framework of activity in two ways: on the one hand, we propose a change to the VAT Code, with the aim of exempting the services provided by companies, study centres; on the other hand, and in the matter of legal consistency, we propose a change to the Single Persons Income Tax Code to ensure that expenses with study support services and explanations are also deductible to collection. In any case, and in view of the potential budgetary impact, we have defined the entry into force of these two bills in the coming year, and we are therefore convinced that, with these proposals, all interests are guarded and all discrimination corrected. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u47	Ah! Why didn't they do this with the fuels? Oh, my God! They should have done this in fuel matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u48	Mr Firmino Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, in the person of the first petitioner — João Miguel Rodrigues Cavaco — all subscribers to the petition. We admit that the matter is complex, and the PSD will abstain in the vote of the two draft laws of the authorship of the CDS-PP. In fact, there is a duality of VAT application if the school explanation and support services are provided by study centres and when they are provided on a personal basis. And tax treatment is also uneven with this type of expenditure in the context of IRS deductions. from my point of view, the problem is deeper, since families have to use private services of extracurricular support to students, because there is no public offer in schools. Public education should introduce, in non-formal breaks, the provision of school support and curriculum complement. Fortunately, I can cite a good example in the country, which occurs in Vila Nova de Gaia, at the level of 1. the cycle, where, through the Gaia Learn + Program, students have the possibility of having extra support and curriculum complement in public school. This practice should be generalized throughout public school, with this provision of explanation and support services available at school. The choice by the services provided through study centres or by private individual providers may and should exist, and it seems to us that this will improve, and much, the strengthening of the skills of students. In conclusion, I would like to say that the petition highlights a situation of inequality between school explanation and support service providers and may be relevant to approximate the reality of individual study centres and providers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u50	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Application No 338 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and the draft laws presented here by the CDS, which ultimately attempt to corrode, from a legislative point of view, the object of the petition, are based on the question of possible discrimination between private providers—in this case, the teacher—and the so-called educational centres, both in the perspective of the IRS, i.e. the exemption of IRS to which these individual service providers are entitled, as well as the consequent taxation or not of that service in the case of VAT, in the case of educational centres, and their exemption when it comes to teachers. Therefore, it is important to understand whether or not there is, in fact, unequal treatment, and this is at the heart of the problem. In my view, and in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, extending the exemption from the incidence of VAT to educational centres would, indeed, create and enhance inequality with regard to other operators who also provide services in the area of education. That is why, in relation to people of equal status and equal legal relevance, we would obviously have discrimination. But more: this solution, as configured, is not feasible from the point of view of the Tax Authority in terms of calculating the respective deduction, taking into account the automatic IRS. And I remember that the CDS, in its legislative practice—and we will praise it—until it has embarked on the IRS automatic; now, in opposition to responding to certain customers, it questions what it would be good to do. In other words, with this solution we would return to the previous system and education costs would have to be treated individually. But also on the subject of VAT, it is also important to take into account the European framework on this subject and the Council Directive 2006 / 112 / EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, which is extremely rigorous and precise as to the matters in which there may be exceptions. In addition, on this subject, particularly on Article 132. that of that Directive, which is at issue in this regard, it is important to take into account a recent decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union which constitutes a correct interpretation of the VAT rules and the underlying principles. In particular, therefore, it is very clear that the exemption from Article 9 ( 11 ). the VAT Code applies only when the lessons are taught on a personal basis, i.e. when performed directly by the teacher when explaining, assuming a direct relationship without interference from any other entity. This is precisely the reason for this difference and positive discrimination in relation to teachers. On the other hand, if another path was chosen here, in line with what the CDS recommends, we would be accepting a solution which would be contrary to Community law, particularly Article 132. that of the Directive, and we would be infringing the same Community law. For these reasons, and understanding the petitioners' claim — I was indeed the rapporteur of this petition and I heard them - I know their arguments - in this situation, in particular, I believe that it would be a bad service both from the fiscal point of view and from the perspective of education to follow this petition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group begins by complimenting the subscribers of the petition we are discussing. The use of explanations and study centers is a reality and many are the students who have just had to do so, especially in a context where many responses are still lacking in public school and in which there is an evaluation system based on national examinations at various levels of education, which ends up in some way minimizing continuous evaluation. The truth is that, in recent years and, above all, during the previous PSD/CDS government, the increase in costs with education, the increase in the number of students per class, the degradation of the pedagogical and monitoring conditions of students and the worsening of the living conditions of families have revealed the perversion of this situation, which has effectively resulted in the worsening of inequalities. in this context, the use of study support methodologies outside the school space has become increasingly a resource for which most students have been pushed. In this context, we recall the study by Andreia Gouveia, a specialist in Administration and Educational Policies at the University of Aveiro, who concluded that for example, «the national exams pushed the organization of schools to a commercialist logic» and have as a major beneficiary the growing market of the centers of explanation. The researcher states that «it is undeniable that there are grounds to see the ‘examination’ instrument as a cause for the worsening of social inequalities in access to school recognition ». The contradictions that have not yet been fully resolved by this government — and some are still far from it — are opposed to the logic of inclusive public school, because they promote a system that ignores the economic, social and cultural conditions of students and their families, not ensuring the pedagogical conditions corresponding to the requirements that are put in place. We therefore do not follow the solutions proposed by the CDS, which in fact was part of a government that did, authentically, shoot at public school, nullifying it from the pedagogical responses that should be assured. Thus, what we understand is that the search for solutions to these problems should, above all, pass through the strengthening of public responses, with the appreciation of public school, the existence of proper pedagogical support, the consideration of specific learning and study needs by students, the increase of school resources, the end of national examinations and the effective valorization of continuous evaluation. This is the PCP position. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u54	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 6000 citizens who went to the Assembly of the Republic to discuss this issue. I begin by analyzing the context in which this petition occurs and the scenario in which the public school was transformed into a business, particularly by the choices of the previous government. When the school, which is a right that exists to serve fundamental rights of access to education and knowledge and which, says our Constitution, should be made and promoted without creating discrimination, is transformed into a business, we see as a result that they push, alongside public school, such businesses. Here, the business of explanations, in fact, serves to help families who, looking at the system of education centered on national exams and knowing that it costs children so much, are then thrown to the needs to meet both the difficulties that currently exist in teaching, or the objectives of such a vision made on the basis of exams. For this reason, they then resort to auxiliary means promoted by financial support to have a way of overcoming difficulties and to enable their children and their daughters to access quality education. in this context, we do not ignore, therefore, the genesis of the problems on the table. And the genesis of the problems is a state that, having put in public school as an essential pillar, has been, over time, directed to use education as a business, and that is what we think is wrong. Therefore, the primary response should be the investment in public school quality and the change of the school paradigm so that the examination no longer be the sole purpose for which the student and student do their work and for continuous education, the promotion of knowledge and the guarantee that this knowledge is sufficient within the public school are the fundamental objectives. Having said this, as regards the scope of the petition on the table, it is more on tax matters than on matters of content or in the form of public school construction. We are also talking about an inequality that we do not ignore, which should not be like the CDS here, discussed ad hommem, in a proposal framed by a budget debate, because these are budgetary matters. We recognize this time for this debate, we believe that at that time this debate must also be held by us and therefore we will not follow these initiatives of the CDS, which appear at present. In conclusion, Mr President, saying that for us the main problem is the construction of a public school which should not depend on its objectives of business accessories, in ways that cost families more than the taxes they already pay to the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who hears the PCP and the Left Block will think that the explanations were an invention that happened in the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u59	...and that surely parents who understand that, for their children, that is a good option are evil, who want the evil of them and who is a perverse solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u60	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u61	And as for the timing of the proposal—he recalled very well, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares —, it was presented in good time in the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u62	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u63	...and it was plummeted by the gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u64	Now! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u65	She plummeted in the Budget and plummeted out of the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u66	But in view of the intervention you have done recently, I am much more relaxed, because I am sure that the Left Block will vote-CL - it will - in favour of it in the next State budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which contains an assessment of petitions Nos 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure that the architecture is carried out by architects ( Daniel Fortuna do Couto and others) and 402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure the right to work, to the profession and to defend the acquired rights of technical agents of architecture and engineering ( Association of Technical Agents of Architecture and Engineering ). The news that the Bureau has to give to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has signed up yet. [[Pause.]] Before I give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias, I appeal to the parliamentary groups — and I hope that they will be heard — that they will include those who understand, during the speech of Mr Bruno Dias, whom I give the floor to. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the part of the CFP Parliamentary Group, we wish first of all to greet all citizens who, through petitions Nos 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 402 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) have been addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, either in the petition that raises the question of whether the architecture is only carried out by qualified professionals for that purpose, i.e. by individuals with the title of architect and as such recognised by the Order of Architects, or those who place the petition referred to in the Assembly of the Republic « For the right to work, for the right to profession, for the protection of the rights acquired by the technical agents of architecture and engineering ». On these matters, however, as regards the qualification and recognition of professional qualifications, we would like to highlight the following: when the Assembly of the Republic discussed this issue with the various initiatives of political parties or governments, the CFP reaffirmed two fundamental principles. First: we must point out a path and a goal of consecration and fulfilment of the right to architecture, which means ensuring that architecture is actually exercised only by architects. Second: the path to this goal should not ignore the concrete situation of those professionals that the State has always recognized and certified as empowered to develop projects, including technical agents of architecture and engineering, but not extending this scope. In fact, let me remind you of the exact words that the CFP gave both in the 2003 debate and in the 2012 debate, concerning the petitions that were being submitted. We said this: 'Since it is clear and unforgettable that the need to cover up a situation which has been temporary for 30 years, we cannot ignore the importance of not incurring the inverse error, which is precisely that of not precaution of the many situations of professionals and institutions on which this change will have an impact'. There is a path that is set and we must move forward in this direction, we must not forget that there are concrete people on the ground, from north to south of the country, and that this reality cannot be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP has always said this! On the other hand, petition No 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a) in point 2, it raises the question of the Assembly to adopt the legislative provisions so that the competences which have been withdrawn from the architects are returned to the architects. However, under the law in force, the role reserved for architects in the field of, inter alia, management and supervision of work was clearly a secondary and lesser role. In the previous legislation, in the discussion of the speciality of the bill that would give rise to Law No 40 / 2015, the CFP presented proposals for amendments that included this matter. We have therefore proposed recognition of the qualifications of architects for the exercise of the functions of working direction and of supervision of work, involving this change in the tables annexed to the diploma in question, but our proposal has been rejected, with the votes against the PS, the PS, and the CDS. But we will inevitably return to this issue, because today the CFP has already presented the bill extending the framework of competences recognised to architects in the direction and supervision of work. Because what, today, is reserved for architects in this section is limited to buildings up to Class 2 or, then, with the requirement of 3 years of experience for Class 3 or 5 years of experience for buildings up to Class 6. Well, we feel that this is not right. What we presented in 2014 is, again, what we represent now, in this case with a bill that today has entered the Assembly. This specific approach in no way alters or withdraws in the substantive issues, the position of criticism and denunciation which the CFP has manifested since the beginning of the legislative processes and which gave rise to Law No 40 / 2015 and, moreover, Law No 41 / 2015 on the legal regime applicable to the exercise of the construction activity. Life has already shown, and it demonstrates every day, the reason we had in winning our vote against these diplomas and our demand on another path and other political options that we need to follow in the area of construction. Without prejudice to the fundamental position taken by the CFP on these fundamental issues, the Portuguese Communist Party intends to contribute to the response to concrete problems, and that is also the meaning of our initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will appeal again to the honourable Members. Members will sign up, wishing to use the floor on this point. However, I give the floor to Mr Joel Sá of the PSD for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the petitioners, who have had the privilege of hearing on various occasions, on the exercise of citizenship and civic participation that they demonstrate with these initiatives. We have two petitions under discussion, the subject of which has been the subject of debate and legislative amendment very recently in this plenary, which is why they are already out of time, but it is our parliamentary reality. Thus, we have petition No 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — « Architecture for Architects », which aims to « return to the architects the skills that have been removed from it ». This petition has 11 302 signatures and has Arq as its first petitioner. Daniel Couto, I greet you. They address the legislative process of amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July, which included in particular Bill No 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), the PSD. It should be made clear that the legislative amendments did not remove any competences for architects. I repeat : no skills have been removed from the architects!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u72	It should be noted that the proposal submitted by the PSD aimed only at responding to Mr. Ombudsman's request to Parliament to clarify the inconsistencies of Law No 31 / 2009, which allowed the opposing legal interpretations by public officials of the State. It was also a right recognised in a European directive, which could not be contravened by a national law by omission — different rights for European members. Our bill does not compete for a dequalification of the skills of each profession in the art of building; rather, we are the first to defend that architecture is only carried out by qualified professionals for this purpose and only by them. There is no doubt about this! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We generally agreed with the petition, in particular when calling for the promotion of legislative initiatives necessary for the continuation of the National Architecture and Landscape Policy, recognizing the architects, like the generality of the Member States, their strategic importance in the sustainable and qualified development that is intended for the country. We are fully available for this discussion, without demagogy and without false questions. Mrs. Petitioners and Mrs. Architects, let's defend that architecture is made by architects! As regards petition No 402 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — By virtue of the right to work, by virtue of the right to work, by defending the rights acquired by technical architects and engineering, with 4286 signatures, and having as its first subscriber the Association of Technical Agents of Architecture and Engineering ( AATAE), the object of this petition was also the subject of discussion, which culminated with the diploma approved with the support of the Social Democratic Party, which included a set of changes in the competences — raising the level of competence of the ATAEs in terms of supervision and working direction, in some cases equalizing the competence of unexperienced licensees, but without exceeding them, who intended to respond to the aspirations presented by the ATAEs and who consider themselves to be balanced and fair, does not make sense to them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We therefore consider that the object of the petition has already been achieved in the above legislative amendment and we reiterate by the PSD the value of knowledge and know-how of these professionals. Finally, we hope that the noise caused and the misinformation around these issues will cease to exist definitively and that Parliament's position on this issue will be clarified and what has been involved with these amendments, valuing the role of each in the art of building. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u73	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, first of all, the petitioners of the two petitions we have discussed together today, petition No 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and petition No 402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), first of all, noting that they actually meet the work that Parliament has done throughout this legislature, in order to complete a long and complex legislative process, in which it was necessary to combine positions, sometimes divergent, when not complementary, seeking to guard—and this was, above all, the concern of all the parliamentary groups and of all those who presented or submitted legislative texts or proposals for amendment—the balanced support of fundamental rights of the various parties present. Obviously, this solution also went through the call and evaluation of the President of the Republic, who returned the diploma, without promulgation, to the Assembly, which again allowed the discussion to be reopened and to find an effectively balanced solution which, in fact, corresponded to what had been even formulated as a proposal by the Socialist Party during the discussion on the speciality. Therefore, Law No. 25 / 2018, in a certain way, revising Law No. 31 / 2009, comes to seek to guard and respond to positions which, as I underlined, are not entirely compatible, thus find a coherent transitional balance. Indeed—and it began precisely with that point—in this whole process, we never considered questioning the insurmountable principle that architecture should be an activity reserved for architects. This is the factor of evolution which we have pointed out, from the very outset, through a legislative initiative of citizens, that allowed the repeal of Decree No 73/73 in this matter and that it has consolidated, in our legal order, a principle from which we do not abdicate and that we must understand that it is insurmountable. The fact is that the transformation and migration of the previous regime into the current regime cannot undermine and question the rights of persons whose professional activity was based on legitimate expectations of the law, and the legislator must therefore make an effort — which we believe we have been able to make in a balanced way — to ensure a fairly clear transitional regime. This is what we have today, indeed: a more balanced regime than that of the original proposal of the PSD, which we know also came to a recommendation from the Ombudsman and which implied the need to articulate both the Community framework and the national framework, which was not simple, but in which the regime and the final response end up giving solutions that seek to be, once again, balanced, careful what is laid down in the Annex to the Directive and, above all, identifying real expectations. This is, the real needs of people who, in fact, had subscribed architectural projects and who, therefore, more than just an abstract legal position, had fuelled a need over time and who, during the period identified in the law, delimiting a specific universe of recipients, enabled them to practice these acts in a transitional way. In addition, with registration with the IMPIC (Instituto des Markets Public, Real Estate and Construction) to ensure that a process that has been over for a long time does not reopen. Therefore, I reiterate, it is not, it has not been, it will not be at stake the principle of architecture by architects and, in fact, we do not go back on that point. This does not mean, of course, that we do not have to take into account the position of professionals who, for this reason, had legitimate expectations. So it also seems to us that this path that we have taken and that we have concluded is balanced, it is a path that seems to us that, nothing being definitive, can finally find a definitive solution to how to regulate this transition so that all the well-founded expectations, once again say so, can be guarded. The directive is what it is and, within the framework of this directive, it is the solution that better protects both the Portuguese legal order, and all professionals, and also the need to ensure that architecture continues and will be exercised in the future only by architects. Having said that, with regard to the concerns expressed here by the technical agents of architecture and engineering, in particular in the field of labour supervision, it also seems to us that, with this proposal, both in the initial version and in this one that has now found its way to the pages of the Journal of the Republic, a solution has been built up, and I would like to say it, balanced and capable of doing what is not always simple, but in which Parliament has invested a long time and which, in the end, ends up offering, as satisfactory as possible to all parties, a final answer by the law of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u75	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to appreciate two petitions, a petition signed by architects Daniel Fortuna do Couto and others, asking for measures to ensure that the architecture is carried out by architects and, at the same time, another petition by the Association of Technical Agents of Architecture and Engineering, requesting the adoption of measures to guarantee the right to work, to the profession and to defend the rights acquired by technical agents of architecture and engineering. The advantage of discussing two petitions that do not have exactly the same meaning is that we can in some way do a brief analysis of what has been the intervention of the public authorities on the professions related to projects and works in Portugal. We know that the times of the famous Decree No. 73 / 73 are long gone, which has prevailed for a long time. over the past few years, both the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, which, of course, has a very important responsibility in all matters relating to the regulation of professions, with the qualification of these same professions, which have to do with, above all, professions which, being regulated, have, in a matter such as the process of work, either from the point of view of their design or from the point of view of their implementation, to have very well defined their field of action, certainly that the public authorities, when dealing with such matters as this, should have a capacity for dialogue. It seems to me that, unfortunately, in recent years, particularly in the most recent case, there has been no such ability, at least on the part of the Government, to assess a number of matters that came to the Assembly of the Republic. We all remember that in 2009 it was possible, with much consensus, with much evaluation by all the entities involved in the work process, to introduce changes that were very significant. In 2014 it was also possible to take a step forward, delimiting many of these materials, in particular ensuring that the architecture acts were reserved, and well, to the architects. However, in 2018, in a legislative procedure already set out here, it was necessary to respond to a request, replying to a letter from the Ombudsman, who told us that there was a difficulty with a legal failure to comply with Community legislation. We know that when we look at something like this, what we are talking about is the quality of intervention in the public space, the safety of this same intervention in a public space for each of our citizens. We are also talking about many of those potentials that are fundamental to Portugal, such as the potential of tourism, in a country that has excellent professionals in these matters, professionals who stand out both internally and externally. It is important to remember, for example, the three Pritzker prizes that exist in Portugal, such as a set of nationally and internationally awarded engineers. at this time, we understand that, after closing the 2018 process, which was a specific process to answer, uniquely and exclusively, a question that had been raised by the Ombudsman, it does not make sense to be reviewing a matter which has already been reviewed, even above, precisely because of a return to Parliament, without promulgation by the President of the Republic, which later led to finding a new solution. But it does make sense for us, in a matter which has changed very rapidly in recent years, in particular from the point of view of the competences of the professionals themselves working in this sector, to look again at the whole process of the project and the whole process of the work and to ensure that each of the positions to which it is linked has its specific role, but that this specific role does not overlap with others. Certainly it will be necessary for the intervention of this forum to be made by the Government. It seems to us that in recent years the government has not wanted to devote specific attention to this area and this sector, but we know that this sector has a huge impact on our economy and, above all, has a huge impact on the lives of these professionals. That is exactly why they address Parliament. Perhaps, we should also take advantage of this reflection to think about the process, its overallity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u77	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating two petitions which are not the same, even though they are related, and which have even different stories in this Parliament. One of the requests is to respond to the recent legislation made by this Parliament regarding the response of Mr. Ombudsman's request and the way in which rights acquired by civil engineers were framed which, until 1987 / 88, started their studies in a set of Portuguese higher education institutions, but also in the manner in which these acquired rights relate to, one, the rights of architects and what is currently in the law is provided for in the architectural functions and, two, with the amendments to the law we have had since 2009. We must now tell these petitioners and those petitioners, first of all, that the Left Block was opposed to the amendment that came out of this House of the Republic, with the approval by the PSD, the PCP and some Members of the Socialist Party, because we do not think that the solution found, by setting up the rights acquired by civil engineers, resolves the exercise of these rights within the legal framework born since 2009, on the one hand, and in the relationship that the professional orders of engineers and architects have in the protection of the acts of their members. in this context, we have always said that the acts of architecture could be exercised within the framework of the acquired rights, since under the height of the Order of Architects, this is the one that has the ability to assess and monitor ethically the acts of architecture. That was not the decision of the PSD, the CFP and some Members of the Socialist Party and that is not our understanding. We believe that the result is wrong from a legal point of view and will bring complications to civil engineers themselves. Another question concerns the technical agents of engineering and architecture, and — we have already said so in the hearings held in the Commission, and I say that now, here, there are relevant issues that are raised. We do not follow all the subjects and all the demands, but, for example, as regards the direction of work, we consider that there is a possibility that, by experience of decades, knowledge already cemented in concrete, in everyday life, can also be valued. We have made this proposal in the field of expertise, which was not welcomed by other banks, but we believe it was a good way to respond to the petition that the Association of Technical Architects and Engineering brought to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u79	They voted against it, didn't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u80	on our part, we believe that this possibility, rejected by the PSD, should also be framed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u81	They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u82	Mr President, there are no legislative initiatives on this issue for voting, but that is something that we can still revisit until the end of the legislature. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u83	With no further inscriptions, we move to the next item on the agenda, with the appreciation of petition No 433 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — They call for measures to defend quality school meals in Portugal ( Frederico Pinho de Almeida and others) together with, in general, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolution No 1704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annual assessment of the quality of school meals and particular conditions for contracting in the case of authorities ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 923/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Inability to make food establishments containing processed meat available in the canteens, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( PAN) ; Bill No. 924 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the cycle of basic education, ensuring greater quality in school meals (PAN) ; bill No. 925 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health in automatic sales machines of educational establishments with a view to the adoption of healthy eating habits and ensuring the quality of school meals ( PAN) ; draft resolution No 1718 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the creation of an organic structure, affects the Directorate-General for Education, responsible for food education in school, for the defense of quality meals in Portugal ( PAN ) ; draft resolution No 1719 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary amendments to the order approving the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan for Meals served in Education and Public Education Establishments for the defense of quality meals in Portugal ( PAN) ; Bill No. 530 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the alternative supply of vegetable beverages under the school milk programme, promoting amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ) ; Bill No 531 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the promotion of fruit and other healthy food products at school premises / bars, by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ) ; Bill No 532 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Disincentives the sale of food exceeding sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ) ; Bill No 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the provision of vegetable beverages in the school office by amending Decree-Law No 55/2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ) ; draft resolution No 1720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote the quality of school meals ( The Greens ) ; Bill No. 926 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of school canteens ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1728 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ) ; and draft law No 930 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recovery of public management of school canteens ( BE ). For the discussion of this point are assigned 3 minutes to each parliamentary group and 1 minute to the NAP. To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP and to appreciate the petition, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The school year 2017 / 2018 has been marked by numerous complaints about meals served at school meals in the public school network. It was the quality and quantity of the food served to the students, it was the failure to meet the conditions of hygiene and safety, it was also the lack of staff in the canteens. That was all that was based on the petition now in appreciation. In the person of his first subscriber, Rodrigo Pinho de Almeida, taken advantage of to greet the 14 022 petitioners. On this subject, an initiative presented by the CDS has already been discussed in this plenary. At the time, we recommended that the Government introduce mechanisms in public procurement to ensure better quality provision of school meals. It was cast with the votes against the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u86	Subsequently, and in view of the role of complaints and complaints, the Government announced the increase in the monitoring actions to be carried out by ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) with the supplier companies. Last June, on the website of the Directorate-General for School Establishments ( DGEST ), a statistical report on the results of the evaluation of the operation of private canteens and dining rooms was published. It's not enough for the CDS. The supervision of the school meals granted or not will have to be systematic at least annually and, in addition to statistical results, the corrective measures applied, in particular in the case of private concessions, the number of new contests launched following contractual denunciation, as recommended by our draft resolution which will be voted on today in this Chamber. It will also be necessary to consider seriously the introduction of an exception to the Public Contracts Code in order to enable the authorities to strengthen the unit value of meals. It is that the quality of the provision is not compatible with broken budgets, because the public school has a duty to ensure the provision of diversified, quality meals, in sufficient quantity and nutritionally balanced to all students, whether they do so in their own kitchens or concessions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The knowledge and skills necessary for the adoption of healthy habits and routines must be acquired as early as possible. For reasons of effectiveness they have a privileged place and domain: the place is the school and the domain of food. The school should educate, foster, raise awareness, initiate and promote healthy lifestyles. According to the World Health Organization, interventions in the field of health should take place soon in childhood and adolescence, in order to prevent the problems and effects on health resulting from poor eating habits. In fact, it is during childhood and adolescence that important life options are made, whether or not they create risk habits, that will also influence and determine health in adulthood. Schools can play a major and intervening role, schools can and should be means and opportunities for prevention. But freedom of choice cannot simply be coercated. Health promotion and its protection cannot be achieved through persecution outbreaks or prohibitionist sanctions in addition to inconsequential, unless they also prohibit cafes and pastries around schools. from that we do not agree with the measures expressed in various proposals, which are taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u87	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u88	...just signs of prohibition. It's not training, it's not education. The choices of families must prevail, the free option is irrevocable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u89	To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The school is a privileged place for the modulation of food behaviors and for the promotion of health, but there are numerous complaints from parents that alert to the poor quality of school meals. Given these complaints, today we present five projects that aim to contribute to greater food security, nutritional adequacy and quality of the composition and preparation of school meals. We propose, of course, that more nutritionists be recruited and that this strengthen the supervision of meals served in schools. Also, and recognizing the important step taken by the Government in establishing the limitation of products harmful to health on the automatic sales machines of the National Health Service, we argue, on another initiative, that this same measure should be extended to the sales machines of school establishments. Furthermore, and based on studies submitted by the World Health Organization that demonstrate the health risks associated with the consumption of processed meat, we propose that these products are not available to children and young people in school meals. We recall that the World Health Organization includes the meat processed in the group of ultraviolet rays, tobacco or asbestos, due to the unequivocal evidence that they are associated with the appearance of cancer. Finally, given the high amounts of sugar added to chocolate milk, we argue that it should not be distributed to pre-school children and basic education by negative health impacts and by transmitting the false idea that it is a healthy food. We cannot ignore that one quarter of the people who die in hospitals have diabetes, that this disease represents more than 10% of the total health budget in our country, having risen 40% in recent years and that in Portugal, the expenditure on diabetes medicines is €575,000 per day. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known that Parliament always defends the interests of the milk business, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not worth hurting the unsustainability of the National Health Service when, in order to protect the milk and sugar industry, the State actively contributes to stimulating people for diabetes and other epidemic pathological conditions from children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u91	To present the legislative initiatives of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greets petitioners 433 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) which brings to the Assembly of the Republic the matter of the quality of school meals. It is a matter to which The Greens have devoted a great deal of attention to this legislation, but not only. The truth is that we are aware that there are numerous complaints that have reached the Assembly of the Republic not only about the lack of quality of school meals, but also about the little amount of food that is often served to students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we certainly all have very much in mind that concrete case that happened in EB 2 / 3 Noronha Feio, in Queijas, in the municipality of Oeiras — a degrading image the students faced — in which raw chicken was served. From this case, which was very mediatic, many other complaints from several schools from north to south of the country, from the interior to the coast, arrived at the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain: all cases reported to us were related to canteens and canteens, which means that—and we heard this from many school directors—from the moment that there was this option to grant the canteens, the degradation of the quality of meals was evidenced. That is why the Greens propose that a plan be drawn up which includes measures to take progressive action on the direct management of school canteens in groupings and also in ungrouped schools, whose responsibility is central administration. The direct management of the canteens with school employees trained for this purpose, taking into account the practical reality of the school, is, in our perspective, essential to ensure good quality and also the quantity of school meals. On the other hand, it is essential, from the perspective of the Greens, that it is ensured that the renewal of school canteen award contracts is prevented when there are identified cases of lack of quality of meals due to breach of the respective fees books and also that the monitoring actions made at the school canteens are made public, that the Ministry of Education says that they have been strengthened, after their completion and their results. Still following this question, the Greens also took advantage of presenting another set of projects which, in our perspective, is related to an important principle, which is the function of education for a good diet on the part of the school. in this sense, we also propose, through another project, that the alternative of vegetable drink be offered in the School Milk Programme in our schools, that vegetable drinks be made available in the schools bars, that fruit and other healthy food products be made available in the schools bars to students and, finally, Mr President — and I am finishing — it is essential that we disincent the sale of food with excess sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools, thus making the amendment of the law precisely in this sense. The CDS came to say that it was in favour of the free choice, and I therefore believe that it is in favour of a significant set of proposals which the Greens will present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u93	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the subscribers of the petition currently under discussion. The CFP has denounced, at various locations and on several occasions, the lack of quality of meals served in some schools and has called on the Government to take steps to solve this problem. We always reported that the delivery of the management of the school canteens to the private concession was a way of disresponsibility of the State, which in many cases resulted in a loss of quality of meals served to students, as well as the working conditions of their employees. There are many complaints from school communities about the lack of quality of meals served in school canteens and there is a serious problem that cannot be ignored either, which is that of poor working conditions and even inhumane in school canteens. In some companies there are workers who have no contract, others who have been reduced to the hourly and their salary, others who have not yet been recognised, even the appropriate professional category. Recently, in hearing in the Assembly of the Republic, the Union of Workers of the Industry of Hotelaria, Tourism, Restaurants and Similarities of the Centre revealed that, in about 50 schools in the region, only four, repeat, four fully met the book of charges. The Union has also denounced the very high precaution to which about 90 % of the 600 workers in the 170 schools accompanying them are subject, noting that sanctions have not been applied when the non-compliance with the schedule of charges concerns workers. In addition to immediate measures to strengthen supervision such as those enshrined in the State Budget for 2018, at the initiative of the CFP, we believe it is important to go further. in this sense, we propose that the Government create a procedure for reversing the grant of school canteens for public management and that, at the same time, ensure the necessary workers, with adequate linkage and material resources also necessary for the proper functioning of school canteens and the quality of meals provided. Therefore, it defends the CFP that the return from the operation of the canteens to the management of schools should take place when the termination of the contract takes place due to the lack of compliance with the schedule of charges, as well as at the end of the concession contracts. I give you one more word, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the various initiatives on school feeding that are also under discussion. The CFP argues that there should be more means for regular intervention, for monitoring, for awareness raising and for pedagogical intervention with children, young people and their families in order to improve and better equip the population with tools that provide informed, conscious and healthier choices. It is the way in which the CFP considers that it must always be made by opposition to purely prohibitive and intrusive logics of each person's food options. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the initiatives, taking into account the criteria we have just stated. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u95	I have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greeting citizens and citizens responsible for the petition for defense of quality school meals in Portugal, I begin by saying that we all agree on the individual and collective importance of meals in school meals for the promotion of healthy lifestyles, social equity and health education. Just as we agree with the principle that the quality of meals cannot depend on the greater or lesser capacity to mobilize educational communities. The State, the Ministry of Education has a duty to ensure quality and trust in the service provided by school meals to all students and students knowing that in some situations school meals are the only and best opportunity for a nutritionally balanced, healthy and safe diet. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The themes of the petition and of the different projects we are discussing today have been the subject of several debates and proposals from various legislatures, including the current one, which have contributed to the demand and assurance of the quality and diversity of food options in school context. This debate is not therefore the zero moment of our discussion, nor does it occur in a vacuum of policies and instruments defined with these same concerns and objectives. It is as wrong to underestimate the importance of the meaning of the proposals that we are discussing today is to ignore the regulatory, inspection and monitoring system of the quality of food promoted in the school context, which already exists and which has recently shown results that we can and should evaluate and monitor. Thus, the CDS proposal, which recommends that the Government publish an annual report on the situation of school meals, when less than a month ago the Report on the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan was published, according to the State Budget for 2018, does not seem to make much sense to me. As we must also question the balance of proposals such as those of the NAP, the prohibition of the use of meat processed at school meals when the regulations of the Ministry of Education, with the technical support of the Directorate-General for Health, already allows the use of these meats at most once a month. Finally, on the proposals for generalization of the public management of the school canteens, I will say the following: today, there are different models of management of the canteens. The evaluation of the management of municipalities is generally very positive. Data from the first Report on the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan for Private School Meals are encouraging, either in the evaluation of meals, which is from Bom, or in the evaluation of the effectiveness of the performance in the face of irregularities. In more than 25 million meals served in canteens throughout the country were recorded according to the Report, 854 complaints. these, and through the operation of the supervisory teams, resulted, according to the same Report, in improving the service of meals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u97	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. The aim of improving the quality of school meals is common and is for everyone, but, given the legislation in force, the whole system created for the control of the quality of school meals, the priority is not so much the more measures, but that of compliance, evaluation and monitoring of the system that this House has also helped to build and that we can and should continue to monitor and monitor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u99	To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would first of all like to greet the more than 14,000 petitioners who, in good time, open in the Assembly of the Republic the discussion related to the quality of the meals service in the school canteens. That is precisely why the Left Block accompanies this petition with a draft law on the management of canteens. The policy of granting school meals to the private initiative has proved disastrous, indeed, as we have already had the opportunity to attend in the last two or three years, with poorly packed food, with quality of food below what is required, control of the quality and quantity of the highly deficient packaging, a situation visible in newspapers, in student demonstrations, in protests by the parents themselves who see in school meals a disaster and, in addition, the precariousness of the labor relations of these same companies, who gain these contests at increasingly low prices, but also paying increasingly low wages. Therefore, it is necessary to rescue from the private business the management of the canteens in order to rescue the quality of that same service. We've done it in a number of moments. Since the beginning we have been against privatization, we have been against the granting of this service. We have already made several proposals in the State budget and once again propose the recovery for the public management of all the school canteens of the 2. o is 3. the cycles, secondary and vocational education in periods already outlined for the purpose of this same bill. It's really necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, rescue what is from school and public service to give to school and that you should never have left there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u101	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I welcome Mr President and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen present. Today, we are discussing a petition by thousands of citizens concerned about the lack of quality in school meals. in this part, we must greet those who do not comply with the problems that persist in schools. As for the five draft resolutions and the nine draft laws, it is necessary to report the left that, unable to solve the problems of public school, try to realize that responsibility is not theirs. If we have a left-wing government in Portugal, it is all left-wing that is failing children and young people in the right to a quality diet.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u103	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u104	The fault for the lack of quality of school meals is not that of chocolate milk, lack of reports or processed meat. The fault is the lack of quality of food, chicken or raw rice, living protein salads, which proves only a lack of hygiene.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u105	Where are you going to get that data? Oh, my God! Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u106	The petitioners denounced, at the hearing, that, as a result of the rules that the Government persists in maintaining, if it were to pay 1, 28 € per meal provided in schools, from here having to go out money for wages, gas, electricity and the purchase of food. One euro and twenty-eight cents to make a meal for a child is, in some cases, how much the government pays! In addition to the lack of supervision, the recipe for disaster has been completed and that is why they serve in so many schools quality and adequate meals for young people growing up. In the history of democracy, there have never been so many complaints about school canteens. The petitioners said so, they said in the associations of parents throughout the country, they say in children and young people in schools every day. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who sees raw rissols in children's dishes, live lesmas in salad and poorly packed and insufficient food and these problems solved, he does not want reliable conversation. With 1, 28 € for each meal, here if including all costs, without supervision, it is not strange that there is no quality in the canteens of schools. If anyone loves it's who cares, sirs. Members, who can look at the facts and examples can only come to a conclusion: the greatest enemies of the public education system are the ideological prejudices on the left and their inability to assume responsibilities. Those who supported this government must be called to responsibility; they had an obligation to ensure quality food in schools, and failed. Mrs. Members of the PS, the Bloc and the PCP are expected to comply with your obligation. Don't want to cover the sun with the sieve! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u107	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The consumption of food produced on or near the places where they are consumed has extremely positive effects on the quality of food, the local economy and the protection of the environment. The consumption of local food production is also a very effective way of valuing the products and the income of small farmers and a crucial contribution to better energy efficiency, thus providing the enormous environmental costs that long-distance transport implies and contributes to the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change. In order to promote and promote this more healthy and environmentally sustainable form of production and consumption, it is essential to adopt measures to access food produced locally for all public canteens of central, regional or local administration. The applicable Community directives themselves support the setting of criteria and the establishment of procedures which facilitate the local acquisition of agricultural and agri-food products to be consumed in those areas. Through this initiative, the Left Block effectively aims to enhance the use of local food products in public canteens, mixing with bills in this sense, whose legislative process is under way, but which has faced difficulties. There is a need for changes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly in the Public Contracts Code ( CCP ), because, unlike other European countries, in the latest revision of the CCP, the Government did not take advantage of the possibilities given by the European guidelines which, exceptionally and in this field, allow preferential treatment for local production.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u109	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u110	I will finish, Mr. President. at the same time, this change values biological production methods, protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication or integrated protection. In conclusion, I just want to say that the draft resolution brought to the Assembly of the Republic by the Left Block points to the transformations imposed on the health of all, to the promotion of proximity agriculture, essential to the income of many families and to the development of regions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u111	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this intervention closes point five of our agenda. We move on to the sixth point, which concerns the assessment of petition No 460 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — « I do not adopt this silence » — illegal adoptions of the IURD and opening of a parliamentary commission of inquiry ( Anabela da Piedade et al.) together with, in general, Bill No 844 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical assessment committee for the clearance of facts and analysis of procedures related to the alleged illegal adoption process in the IURD ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolution No 1729/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to investigate the procedures followed in the case of children who will have been irregularly referred for adoption as well as current procedures for adoption and promotion and protection of children and young people ( PSD ). To begin the debate, Mr Vania Dias da Silva spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word is, of course, to greet the petitioners and to associate ourselves with them. Regardless of the reasons, justifications or questions that may exist, we associate ourselves with an objective that is yours, that is ours and that should be of everyone in this House, which is, of course, discovering the truth. Not the judicial truth and the accountability of the culprits — it is handed over to the competent bodies and only to them — it is not the truth arising from the internal investigations of the institutions concerned, which also belongs to them and does not serve all purposes, but the truth of the facts, of the past and recent events, which allegedly happened and may also continue to happen, with adoption processes from the beginning to the end. The petition 'I do not adopt this silence' denounces facts and practices which, if true, are of the greatest seriousness. Reports of children taken from mothers on the basis of false decoupling reports or mild and with little concern; children previously chosen to be delivered to certain persons — in the case, and in the past, to the IURD and, where appropriate, to other persons and in other circumstances. These are highly disturbing complaints that Parliament cannot watch impatience and quiet, pretending that there is no problem within the public institutions alone, in the procedures adopted by these public institutions and, possibly, in the law, probably permeable, sometimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u114	Moreover, it is common voice that adoptions, despite much better in recent years, are still a problem in Portugal, or because too permissive, in the voice of some, or because too restrictive, in the voice of others. And here we speak of the most basic rights of children, of biological parents, of adoptive parents, who are structural rights of any rule of law. Any sand in the gear, no matter how small—and, to what has been said and to be true, is not small, it is mountain— should immediately dictate our attention. For this reason, the CDS proposes the creation of a committee of experts that goes to the bottom of history, that goes from beginning to end of adoption processes, from beginning to end of the usual procedures, composed of specialists from the most varied areas, from the law of the family and minors, social service, psychology, among others. And to do what? To do something simple: evaluate the procedures adopted, the concrete circumstances in which some children were removed, evaluate the circumstances in which, theoretically, children can be withdrawn from parents to assess the assumptions of all adoption processes, in concrete and in general. We certainly cannot resolve the past or erase what happened in the « back there», but we have an obligation to exhaust everyone, all means, to find out what happened and prevent it from repeating itself. We can, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer going in time to help the petitioners, but we are certainly going in time to give them the truth. That's all we propose, that's all we expect most to approve. [[CDS-PP and public applause from the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u115	I draw the attention of the public present in the galleries that cannot manifest itself in any way. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Morais of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition designated by its signatories 'I do not adopt this silence' represents a cry of indignation. Infuriated by, in its view, illegal adoptions have occurred in Portugal, ignoring the rights of children and parents, allegedly feeding a chain of particular interests which, at least, will have been the object of indifference, if not of convivence, by public entities and institutions involved in adoption processes. But this petition also represents an appeal, I would say desperate, to Parliament not to place itself on the side of the indifferent and the convicts and exercise their supervisory powers, finding out what has happened and involving itself in the discovery of the truth and possible responsibilities of entities involved in these processes. The process that led to the production of the report of this petition has already been, in my view, a demonstration of zeal on the part of Parliament, which, in addition to the mandatory hearing, heard all the petitioners who requested hearings, asked for clarifications to protect social security and the Holy House of Mercy and informed the Attorney-General of the Republic that he was aware of these hearings with possible criminal relevance. The work done allowed, by the hearing statements and documents received, to admit the existence of violations of fundamental rights of children and parents, both in the past and in the formulation of doubts about the present, the correction and legitimacy of responsible entities in adoption processes and the forms of their current performance. Here they arrived, the PSD Parliamentary Group understood that the mere discussion in plenary of this petition would be insufficient. This Parliament can, must and must do more! It has the powers and the political responsibility to ascertain what has happened and what may still be happening today in the operation of entities that can and should be monitored. We therefore intend to propose a possible committee for the investigation of the procedures followed in the cases of children who will have been irregularly referred for adoption, as well as the current procedures for the adoption and protection of children and young people, a committee for which we envisage a mandate of 120 days and whose object is clearly defined in the resolution. We want all those who can contribute to the clarification and evaluation of what is at stake, to analyze the documentation collected, to request all relevant information, without fear of unlawful pressure, and to withdraw conclusions, in particular as regards legislative amendment, if this is justified. The Assembly of the Republic cannot, I insist, be on the side of those who are indifferent and conivent. We have an obligation to give the country what, through these thousands of petitioners, we greet, the country asks us: commitment to seek the truth and the intransigent defense of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of children and their parents. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u117	I now give the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition that is being discussed today, and whose petitioners take advantage of to greet, brings us a delicate and unquestionable matter. The child protection system and adoption institute should call for greater attention and more careful analysis. But they must also call for the utmost responsibility and honesty. The Left Block considers that the arguments contained in this petition on alleged illegal adoptions about 20 years ago should be the subject of due investigation and due clearance of responsibilities, but that this must be done in stricter compliance with the principle of separation of powers and in its own place, where judicial investigation has already taken place, and well. Therefore, we cannot follow the proposals of the CDS and the PSD, respectively, of an independent technical assessment committee and a possible committee for the investigation of the facts and analysis of the procedures related to this alleged illegal adoption process of the IURD ( Universal Church of God's Kingdom ) since this truth must be ascertained in court. But we cannot follow these proposals either because, the towing of the proposal to investigate the alleged irregularities in the adoptions of the IURD, the CDS and the PSD also aims to evaluate the current procedures and practices of entities with competence in the field of childhood and youth and in the processes of adoption of children. Mixing procedures that are being the target of criminal investigation with current child adoption procedures is not only of enormous irresponsibility, but also extremely dangerous because it impresses the adoption system and the child protection system an image of something nebula, of doubtful needle, with obscure procedures that would wish to serve interests other than the promotion of the rights of families and children. [[PSD protests.]] [[What a fool!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u119	It is worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that adoption has been declining in recent years, currently being the life project defined for only about 10 % of children who are in residential care. of these, only one part has effectively adopted judicially and, of these, only one part is effectively adopted. This is a good sign, because it is a sign that it allows us to assess that monitoring of families and prevention work is having some effect and it is ensuring the continuity and greater maintenance of children within the families of origin. the measures applied by the protection committees of children and young people, as a whole, at national level, 91 % are measures of support in the natural environment of life, support to parents or support to other family members. Only 9 % represent placement measures. Therefore, the idea that children will be being withdrawn for adoption—because this is the idea that is underlying and that is the idea that is dangerous—is Leviana, but above all, it is extremely dangerous for the protection of children and for the promotion of their best interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u120	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u121	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. The system of protection for children and the adoption institute should, indeed, be an evaluation, as well as an analysis of the possible need for legislative improvement, but we believe that this is the duty and direct responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic and that it does not make sense the establishment of a technical and independent committee, nor the creation of a committee of parliamentary inquiry disguised as a possible committee. Therefore, the Left Block has already proposed the creation of a working group, having already submitted a request for the hearing of an extensive range of entities and experts... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... with competence in the field of childhood and youth and in particular adoption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u122	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u123	I'm done now, Mr. President. The protection of families and children and the promotion of their rights requires maximum seriousness and responsibility and cannot be the target of any kind of political exploitation maneuvers. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u124	You have the floor, to speak the next speech, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to express to the petitioners and the petitioners, the greatest respect for the situation described in the petition and to tell you that under no circumstances does the Socialist Party disregard the information brought to this Parliament. The petition « I do not adopt this silence », concerning an alleged fraud in adoption proceedings which allegedly involved IURD leaders in the 1990s, deals with a possible crime dated 20 years ago. Parliament was informed that the Social Security Institute, having heard of this case by the media, immediately participated in Lisbon's DIAP ( Department of Investigation and Criminal Action ) and that the Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating. The Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa also reported, as well as social security, that is conducting internal investigations. in this context, the CDS proposes an independent technical commission, consisting of family law specialists, among others, but the case is already handed over to the Public Prosecutor, which is an independent entity constituted by legal experts, with the competence to assess whether or not there are criminal indications, in respect for the separation of powers. [[Protests from CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] During the hearings held in the context of the petition, references were made to possible irregularities concerning the adoption institute, today, leading the rapporteur, Teresa Morais, to the opinion: « Shocking is also the fact that information brought to the knowledge of the rapporteur and the other Members and Members refer not only to past facts and practices but to current procedures ». In view of this statement, the Socialist Party immediately submitted a request to hear the Attorney-General of the Republic on these current facts, since it is the body responsible for monitoring these procedures. The PSD then requested to hear Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mr. Provider of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon and the Superior Council of the Magistrate. These hearings have not yet been held, but the PSD, even before hearing the entities that requested to be heard, has proposed a possible committee with competences that could be ensured by a working group to consider the case of the petition, but also « on current procedures and practices that point to the continuation of failures ». The mixture of a situation 20 years ago, limited to a specific case, which can constitute a crime, with current situations, in a system that has evolved in recent years for greater protection of children, is an irresponsible and dangerous stance because it can challenge the institute of adoption and the life of many children and families in Portugal [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It's also good to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the latest amendments to the adoption legislation were the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u126	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u127	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. The Socialist Party is fully available to host initiatives that can improve the adoption system, in particular the proposal of the Left Block to hear a set of entities that can evaluate the procedures, but do not contain us to mix a case that can set up a crime, a 20-year-old crime, with the adoption system of the present. Our adoption system can always be improved, but our adoption system is a good system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u128	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the signatories of this petition and also, because it is fair, Mrs Teresa Moreis as rapporteur of this process, because she has enabled this House with a thorough work, a very careful work, which is important to value. Of course, in this petition and in the work of instructing this petition, very serious accusations have been made that the competent bodies for criminal investigation cannot cease to deal with themselves, investigating everything that can be investigated and determining the responsibilities to be resolved. That is what we expect in this respect, which is, of course, a different scope from that which is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic, as a sovereign body. in this petition, concerns have emerged, not only regarding the past, but also regarding the application of the adoption institute at present. As regards this, we believe that the adoption institute cannot be stigmatized, it must be demanded the utmost responsibility. It is not possible, on the basis of serious facts that may have occurred or that may have occurred and that should be investigated and prevented, to call into question a whole institute, as if adoption was not a civil law institute, meritorial and thought out of the best interest of children who should be adopted. But, as I said, it must be given the greatest responsibility. It is in this sense that the CFP has just presented, this week, a bill, creating a very strict impediment: whoever has any intervention, whether at the administrative level or at the judicial level, in the institutionalization of children, cannot have any direct or indirect connection to any host institution, regardless of its nature. I mean, there must be an absolute impediment here. We're not making any accusations. We are preventing something that must be prevented: there can be no interest linked to institutionalization by those who make such decisions or participate in the instruction of such processes. This bill has already been introduced and we hope that at the next legislative session it will be discussed by this House. What is proposed here has to do with the creation of committees. The CDS proposes an independent committee and the PSD proposes a possible committee. We would say that these are proposals that are excluded. In other words, the House of Two would either set up an independent committee, as in the case of forest fires, and in this case there would be no parliamentary committee to deal with this matter, or, in accordance with the PSD proposal, would set up a possible committee to discuss this matter. It happens that this House has a committee responsible for the matter, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. It was also the Commission responsible for examining the petition itself and fulfilled its duties. Therefore, it will be said: "We must not now give ourselves to be satisfied. We discussed the petition, it's discussed. But the Assembly has responsibilities". We think so, and you must assume them, but within the committee. We agree that this issue should continue to be the subject of attention by the Assembly. We now believe that the committee responsible should pay particular attention to this. That's our position. The Assembly must continue to monitor this matter with all responsibility, but it does not need to create new institutions to do so. [[Greetings from the PCP and P.S. Member of the Simões Lift.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u130	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of petition No 460 / XIII ( 3 ) is concluded. ( a ) and generally draft law No 844 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolution No 1729 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ). Let us turn to petition No 483/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requests for measures to find Américo Sebastião, Portuguese citizen, missing in Mozambique ( Maria de Salomé da Luz Pereira Sebastião and others). I begin by giving the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate of the petition we make today, requesting the adoption of measures to find Américo Sebastião, a missing Portuguese citizen in Mozambique, is a moment of great importance and an opportunity to draw attention to the drama that our fellow country's family has experienced. I would like to greet your first petitioner, Mrs Salomé Sebastião, for her tenacity, courage and resilience throughout this process. I do so, not only as a rapporteur of this petition, but also as a woman and mother, with family in Mozambique, who recognizes all the suffering this family has experienced since its disappearance in the Mozambican province of Sofala on 29 July 2016. Since then, efforts with the Mozambican, Portuguese and international authorities to develop all efforts to find her husband are absolutely revealing her ability and willingness to fight. In Portugal, Mr President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice, the Secretaries of State of the Portuguese Communities and Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and at various levels the Directorate-General for Foreign Policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the international level, the family of Américo Sebastião maintained contact with Amnesty International, the UN — through the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances — and with the Community of Sant'Egidio. And the family also contacted the Holy Father and the Embassy of Mozambique in Portugal. In May 2017, the family also submitted a written petition to the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, which is still awaiting any reply. I would also point out that since the disappearance of our fellow countryman, the search for information, as well as the offer of police cooperation in the resolution of the case, has been a constant in the work of the Portuguese authorities with their Mozambican counterparts. This case has also been brought to the attention of the bodies of the European Union, the European Parliament, as well as the European External Action Service, in the person of High Representative Federica Mogherini, who has expressed himself in the following words : « In recent years Mozambique has been affected by an increase in kidnappings targeting entrepreneurs and people with resources », « extremely worrisome» kidnappings which the European Union has discussed with Maputo on numerous occasions, considering that in order to « improve the image and stability of the country » if « it has to strengthen the rule of law and the fight against impunity ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The disappearance of Américo Sebastião in Mozambique has been treated as a national matter, but unfortunately this has not yet arrived to find the authors of the abduction of this Portuguese and to give the answers your family deserves. The PSD Parliamentary Group hopes that the recent reopening of the process by the Mozambican Public Ministry will give new impetus to the resolution of this issue, calling for greater cooperation between the Mozambican and Portuguese authorities to find the answers to this dramatic case. We do not want to believe that it is possible to continue to close doors to the full investigation of the events that have led to the disappearance of this fellow country and we reiterate our commitment to the truth and our willingness to help, with all our means, to resolve this process. It's time to give answers to this family! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u132	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also, of course, begin by complimenting the petitioners. This is a delicate, serious issue, the disappearance of a fellow countryman who lived and practiced his professional activity in a friendly country, Mozambique, and who, for reasons that remain to be clarified, disappeared without any data or news. Clearly, what the petitioners, understandably — I believe that any one of us understands this very easily — they are looking for answers, what they are looking for is action, what they are looking for is that there may be an explanation for this. It is true — it has already been said here by Mrs Angela Guerra — that there has been a set of inquiries in recent months, in the last year, at national and international level. It is also true that these efforts were all inconclusive in the sense that—and said in a very clear way—we are apparently, at least for what we know, where we have always been, that is, without an investigation, without any data, without any news, without any answers. This cannot, of course, leave the Portuguese authorities indifferent or conformed, all of them, all the powers and also this House. Moreover, the CDS, on 7 February, asked three questions to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I would like to point out: « What diplomatic proceedings have been carried out by the Portuguese authorities since 29 July 2016, the date of the disappearance, so far? What support is the Government providing to the Portuguese citizen's family? What diplomatic efforts will you make, Mr Minister, to determine your destination and promote your return to Portugal? Do not keep on seeking. ” It is true that the Government, within one month, on 8 March, answered these questions from the CDS, saying in particular that it will not resign until this case can be fully clarified, deeply lamenting and carrying out various inquiries, notably at the level of Europol, Interpol and the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, and that it reiterated that, together with the Portuguese Embassy in Maputo and the Portuguese Consulate in Beira, it would continue these efforts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that these efforts have shown themselves to be fruitless. The truth is, we still have no answers, we still do not even know if there is a real will to investigate. It is true — and I am making the words of Mrs. Angela Guerra — that there is hopeful news in recent times, which is the reopening of the process by the Mozambican Public Ministry. Good! And what this House can and should do is its role: it is to pressure and monitor the government, so that the government can obviously, in terms of a bilateral relationship between two sovereign states that respect each other and that are friends, make the necessary pressure so that the truth in relation to this our citizenship can be known, in an independent and independent manner. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this intervention by addressing a very special compliment to Maria Salomé Sebastião, wife of citizen Américo Sebastião, and first subscriber to the petition under consideration. We also welcome all citizens who subscribe to the petition. The 6440 petitioners intend the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic to be taken to find the Portuguese citizen Américo Sebastião, who has disappeared in Mozambique since July 2016. As mentioned in the report accompanying the petition, the petitioners specifically intend that the Assembly of the Republic "is concerned with its congener and the Government of Mozambique to respond promptly and fully to the petition that has been for consideration since 5 May 2017" and that the Portuguese Government "continues to insist with the Mozambican authorities with a view to obtaining full clarification of the case. Do not keep on seeking. ” We understand the intentions of the citizens and, above all, the calls of the family to take all measures to find answers to the success two years ago with citizen Américo Sebastião. However, the principles guiding relations between States and between Parliaments, such as respect for national independence and sovereignty, prevent the taking of tax measures to another State or Parliament, which could constitute a gross violation of those same principles. In line with what was decided in the petition report, the CFP understands the anguish caused by the situation of the disappearance and therefore expresses its solidarity with the family of Américo Sebastião. In view of this situation, the CFP urges the Portuguese Government — in strict compliance with respect for the independence and sovereignty of both countries — to continue contacts with the Mozambican authorities, to provide the means and support requested by the congeneral authorities in order to obtain information on the success of the Portuguese citizen Américo Sebastião, and to provide all types of support, including social, medical and psychological or other material, to the family of Américo Sebastião. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u136	Mr Pisco has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by expressing the solidarity of the PS Parliamentary Group to the wife and relatives of Portuguese citizen Américo Sebastião and to all those who subscribe to this petition. We understand the dramatic situation that the family lives because of the disappearance of Américo Sebastião, past two years, without any news about his whereabouts. Américo Sebastião was a businessman who since 2001 had worked and made his life in the province of Sofala, an area where there has always been some insecurity and tension. The Portuguese entrepreneur will have been forced into a van in a gas pump in Nhamapaza by individuals in uniform. Since then, nothing else has been known. Following the disappearance, the Mozambican authorities launched investigations, which, after some time, unfortunately, stopped and the process was filed in October 2017. The worst thing is that there seems to be little determination on the part of the Mozambican authorities to continue with the investigations, which is incomprehensible and unacceptable. For the Portuguese Government, this is from the outset one of its priorities in bilateral relations with Mozambique, so it has closely followed it, with regular contacts with the Mozambican authorities and with the family, providing all support and collaboration for any police and judicial investigations, and has insisted, through various ways, that investigations continue until there are concrete results. Portugal has also acted multilaterally, particularly through participation in meetings of the United Nations Working Group on Enforced and Involuntary Disappearances. The PS Parliamentary Group also, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities, following a hearing with Salomé Sebastião, sent a letter to the chairman of the homologous committee of the Mozambican Parliament to raise awareness of the need for investigations not to stop. All these efforts are thus clearly in line with the objectives of this petition. It also deserves to highlight the tireless and unconformed action of the first subscriber to this petition, Salomé Sebastião, who has made all efforts with the Mozambican authorities, the highest Portuguese authorities and international bodies so that the case does not fall into the background. The practice of kidnappings and crime in Mozambique has already reached many Portuguese citizens and entrepreneurs, which necessarily has a negative impact on the economy and development of the country, which should ensure the safety of those who invest there. But, above all, these situations are dramatic from a personal and family point of view. We therefore consider it essential that the Mozambican authorities carry out investigations with determination until the case is properly clarified. That is the appeal which, from the Portuguese Parliament, we use to reiterate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u138	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u139	Mr President, firstly, I respect the petitioners, in particular the first petitioner. This case shocked the country and I believe that, by previous interventions, it can be seen that, even in the Assembly of the Republic, there is no one who disagrees with the need to respond to a family that is left without one of its own, who has been kidnapped, and who sees, by the Mozambican authorities, a lack of willingness to clarify what has happened and, indeed, to bring an answer to this family. from the Left Block, we leave, first of all, what is due, a word of solidarity in this heinous case; secondly, we leave a political requirement for the Portuguese Government to put all the pressure on the Mozambican authorities to engage in justice in this matter and to ensure that the truth is fully ascertained; and thirdly, we leave a challenge for Mozambique to take national civil law seriously, take relations with Portugal seriously and take relations with citizens and citizens of other countries seriously, who expect nothing more, nothing less than security when moving to Mozambique. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u140	Mrs. Members, we therefore conclude the assessment of petition No 483 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). in the next item on our agenda, there is, without time allocated for discussion, motion for a resolution No 67 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the International Agreement establishing the EU / ALC International Foundation, signed on 26 October 2016, in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. We therefore move on to the voting period. I would ask the services to prepare the electronic quorum verification system and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register electronically. Meanwhile, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make some ads to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill No 143 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Drug Control Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103, which falls to 1. the Commission. motions for resolutions 72/ XIII ( 3 ) were also put into the Bureau. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol supplementing the Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Seizure of Aircraft adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 73 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mauritius on Air Services, signed in Port Louis, on 14 September 2017, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau the projects of lein.o 958 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The purpose of strengthening the seismic resistance of buildings ( The Greens ), 959 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establish impediments in the decision on institutionalization processes for children and young people at risk ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 960 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Regulation on Legal Authorisation to Conduct, as part of the training of agricultural vehicle drivers ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 961 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the lack of impact on users of municipal transit and subsoil rights rates ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 962 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extend the School Park, EPE(The Greens ), which falls to 8. The draft resolution No 1772 / XIII ( 3 ) was also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of a programme for the production of native varieties of cereals, particularly wheat, contrary to the scenario for the sharpening of external food dependence ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u142	Thank you, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not yet done so in favour of the electronic recording of their presence and taking the breath of the 89 pages of our vote script today. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 209 presences, to which 4 are added, by Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP and Mr Deputies. Members of the PS Luís Graça, Luís Moreira Testa and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, performing 213 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. With the consent of all the seats, we shall keep for a moment the vote of regret. Let us begin by voting No 599 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Concern and condemnation of the situation of political prisoners in Venezuela, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The facts recently released by various non-governmental and civic organizations, as well as some of the videos and images released on social networks, confirm the cruel and inhuman circumstances in which many of the political prisoners are in Venezuela, some of them with order of release not executed by the authorities. For the second time this year, due to the successive human rights violations, a riot was launched in El Helicoid, the headquarters of the Venezuelan secret services, in the capital of Venezuela, where more than 300 prisoners are arrested, including 18 for political reasons. So far, there is no information provided by the international and national press that points to the outcome of these riots, which have lasted since 9 July. However, some of the videos broadcast by a group of political prisoners in Caracas prison denounce the situations described above and alert to the imminent imminent massacre against prisoners. Despite the release of more than 50 political prisoners in the period immediately following the presidential elections, whose results have not been recognised by the European Union, they remain in prison for political reasons over 200 Venezuelans, a fact that continues to shock international public opinion. These facts are all the more worrying as they arise days after a report was published by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights of June, which exposes serious violations committed in the past three years by the Venezuelan authorities against the civilian population, including extrajudicial executions, excessive use of force, arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment and torture. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its concern at the situation of political prisoners in the Caracas prison establishment; 2 — Condemns all forms of repression exercised by Venezuelan security forces and services, denounced in the report issued by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on 22 June; and 3 — Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners in Venezuela. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u145	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u146	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u147	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u148	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u149	Mr President, to indicate that, on this vote, the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also deliver a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u150	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote: No 602 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — From praise to athletes Ricardo Cunha and Lara Machado, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. I welcome the athletes, who, as they inform me, are present in the galleries. To read this vote, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u151	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Despite the enormous contradictions that life has set him on the way, the athlete Ricardo Cunha of the Union of Freguesias de Escariz, municipality of Vila Verde, is a daily example of struggle, integrity, courage and individual overcoming. Recently integrated in the national selection that argued the European Transplant and Dialsis Sports Championships, which took place in the city of Cagliari, Italy, between 17 and 24 June, won the first place in the 5000 m in the march discipline, two second places in the disciplines of marathon and table tennis, and still a third place in individual table tennis. Ricardo Cunha has been chronically inadequate since 2001, due to nephritis, in treatment with peritoneal dialysis, and is still on a waiting list for renal transplantation at the Hospital de Santo António, Porto. It is therefore the most fundamental justice to recognize the work of a multi-medalade athlete, with excellent results in national and international evidence. Their performance is an excellent example for our young people, having a significant impact on their sport development, increasing the concept of overcoming sport practice. Ricardo Cunha embodies the spirit of constant acquisition and enrichment of quality of life, even in weak health conditions, which consists of not losing hope and continually renewing this spirit of struggle against all adversity, always with a smile of breath printed on the face. Lara Machado, a young natural of Carreiras, São Miguel, municipality of Vila Verde, was one of the protagonists of the World Championship Barcelona 2018 when winning a total of nine medals during the competition, which took place between 22 and 30 June. The champion stood out among the world elite and returned home with five gold medals, three silver and one bronze, prizes to join the immense palmarés, filled with conquests at national and international level, a young man only 14 years old. Lara Machado is therefore an example for our young people for the affirmation of a millennial art, dance, whose vivid and striking presence is evident in all forms of human culture throughout the ages. Along with music, dance is a privileged vehicle of education, communication and social expression. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 18 July 2018, approved a vote of praise to the athletes Ricardo Cunha and Lara Machado. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[General applause, standing, and public at the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u152	I cannot help but make an observation, asking that they do not harm me, which is the following: the people present in the galleries cannot manifest themselves, although they understand the motivation of the demonstration that has just taken place. Mrs. I shall put to the vote vote vote on point 602 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From praise to athletes Ricardo Cunha and Lara Machado, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation.]] We turn to vote No 605 / XIII ( 3. (a) — Condemning Israel's decision to expel the Bedouin Palestinian community from Khan al-Ahmar and to demolish its structures, presented by the PCP and signed by PS Members. I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Government of Israel announced the decision to expel the Bedouin Palestinian community from Khan al-Ahmar and demolish its structures by compulsively transferring its inhabitants to the village of Al-Jabel, located next to Abu Dis. In conclusion, this decision constitutes a flagrant violation of international law. expressions of concern and condemnation have already come from the UN, the European Union and several European countries. Khan al-Ahmar is one of the Palestinian communities that Israel intends to expel from Corridor E1, which would allow to establish a territorial continuity between Jerusalem and Ma'ale Adumim, the largest of the illegal Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank. It also incorporates itself in the enlargement of the Israeli settlement, annexing to Jerusalem the adjacent colonies and isolating East Jerusalem from the rest of the Palestinian territory. Israel intends to cut off the territorial continuity of the West Bank, effectively separating the North and South, and to make it impossible for East Jerusalem to become the capital of a future Palestinian State, calling into question the solution of the two States, which is in line with the UN resolutions and which continues to be advocated by Portugal. Diplomats from twelve European countries tried to visit the village, being prevented by Israeli occupation forces. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : Condemns the announced decision of the Government of Israel to expel the Bedouin Palestinian community from Khan al-Ahmar and demolish its structures by compulsively transferring its inhabitants; Express its solidarity with the Palestinian people; Affirms the Palestinian people's right to recognition of their own State, at the borders prior to 1967 and capital in East Jerusalem, as well as the right of return of Palestinian refugees in accordance with United Nations resolutions ; It urges the Portuguese Government to condemn this decision of the State of Israel, which constitutes a challenge to international law in respect of the Constitution of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and 4 PS (João Soares, Miranda Calha, Pedro Delgado Alves and Rosa Maria Albernaz) and abstentions by 3 PS (Ascense Simões, Nuno Sá and Vitalino Canas) and 3 CDS-PP (Isabel Galliça Neto, Patrícia Fonseca and Vania Dias da Silva).]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1761 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of the first quarter of 2019 ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1764 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers between 26 July and 10 September 2018 ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1767 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Monitoring Committee of the Definition Process of the « Portugal 2030 Strategy » by the end of February 2019 ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1660 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring and strengthening of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess compliance with Law No 27 / 2016 and continue to invest in sterilisation and awareness campaigns ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] As these two last draft resolutions have been rejected, the vote on the following draft resolution on the same subject is in the form of deliberation. This is the vote on draft resolution No 1715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the impact of the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August prohibiting the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population, favouring sterilization ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and the PSD and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 919 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the school explanation and support services provided by the study centres ( CDS-PP ) from this tax. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 921 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In addition to the IRS Code, in order to allow lessons on subjects of official school in schools and study rooms and explanations to be deducted as educational expenses ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 923 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Inability to make food establishments containing processed meat available in the canteens, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, with votes against the PAN and the abstention of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 924 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the basic education cycle, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAP). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against the PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u156	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u157	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 925 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health in automatic sales machines of educational establishments with a view to the adoption of healthy eating habits and ensuring the quality of school meals ( NAP). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against the PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from BE and Les Verdes.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 530 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the alternative supply of vegetable beverages under the school milk programme by promoting amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 531 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the promotion of fruit and other healthy food products in school premises / bars by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 532 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Disincentives the sale of food exceeding sugar, fat and salt in automatic sales machines in schools by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure the provision of vegetable beverages in the school office by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, in favour of BE, The Greens, the NAP and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No. 926 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Public management of school canteens ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 930 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recovery of public management of school canteens ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u159	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u160	It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u161	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u162	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u163	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u164	It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u165	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the various projects relating to school meals that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u166	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 1704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish an annual report on the situation of school meals in public schools ( CDS-PP ). I note that the title and the initial text were replaced at the author's request. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the Member of the PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1718/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the creation of an organic structure, affects the Directorate-General for Education, responsible for food education in school, for the protection of quality meals in Portugal ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the NAP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1719 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary amendments to the order approving the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan for Meals served in Public Education and Education Establishments for the defense of quality meals in Portugal ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1720 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Measures to promote the quality of school meals ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1728 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 844 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical assessment committee for the determination of the facts and analysis of the procedures related to the alleged illegal adoption process in the IURD ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u167	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u168	It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u169	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u170	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1729 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to investigate the procedures followed in the case of children who will have been irregularly referred for adoption as well as current procedures for adoption and promotion and protection of children and young people ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 67 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the International Agreement establishing the EU / ALC International Foundation, signed on 26 October 2016, in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall then vote jointly, in general, on draft resolutions 1024 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ) and 1046 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the end of the collection of tolls at A23 ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Members of PS Hortense Martins, João Marques and Santinho Pacheco and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u171	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u173	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies João Marques and Santinho Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u174	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u175	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u177	Mr President, it is to announce that on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr António Gameiro and Mr Idália Salvador Serrão will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u178	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u179	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u180	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u181	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote on the last two drafts I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u182	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u183	Mr. President, do you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u185	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on the last two drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u186	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1550/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Changes in the timing of national examinations ( PSD ). I note that the text was replaced by the author in the Commission. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1103 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reposition all schedules of trains between Cuba and Beja ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Pedro do Carmo and votes against the PS.]] Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u187	Mr President, to say that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u188	Be registered. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u189	Mr President, also to inform us that the CFP will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u190	Be registered. Mrs. Members, since there is consent by their authors to proceed with the joint vote, we will generally vote on draft resolutions Nos 1063 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of tolls on the Via do Infante, the requalification of EN125 between Vila Real de Santo António and Olhão Nascent and the correction of horizontal signaling in some requalified sections of the route between Olhão and Vila do Bispo ( BE ) and 1348 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The abolition of tolls on the Child's Way and the rapid completion of requalification works on EN 125 ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PS Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graza, and abstentions from the CDS-PP, from PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte and José Carlos Barros and from PS Deputies João Soares.]] Mr. Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u191	Mr President, to announce that Members Jamila Madeira and Ana Passos, Mr Fernando Anastácio and I will present on this vote a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u192	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for Bill No 847 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing leases ( Introducing amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, and to the new urban lease regime ) ( BE ). Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u193	Mr President, the draft vote indicates that this bill will be the subject of three votes: generally, in the speciality and in the global final. This procedure is not finalised in the Commission and I wonder whether it is three votes or whether we are voting in general alone. This same question is also put in relation to the two projects that follow in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u194	Madam Member, I will clarify and answer. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the information I am receiving is that there was a request from 11. the Commission to ensure that these votes were all in progress: in general, in speciality and in the overall final vote. However, before giving the floor to those who ask for it, I would like to draw the House's attention to the following: it is, of course, possible that the speciality vote should be followed immediately by a general vote, but for that, there must be a request to the House and the House will have to decide on this procedure in advance. So I don't know if anyone wants to make an oral request in this regard. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u195	Mr. President, exactly the opposite. Having given the request for a vote, DAPLEN asked us about the matter and the Parliamentary Group, since the projects are from the Left Block, he said that he would not have any harm of his intention if we had voted in general and then the projects would go down to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u196	So this clarification is clear that we are only going to vote in general. Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor, and I hope it will be about the voting process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u197	Exactly, Mr. President. Bill No. 849 / XIII ( 3. a ), of the Left Block, is identical to what was voted yesterday as a proposal to amend the Local Finance Act in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization and...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u198	Mr, we are voting on Bill No 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u199	Ah, so that's what we're going to vote for next...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u200	Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing leases ( Introducing amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, and to the new urban lease regime ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate funding mechanisms for promoting housing policies ( The seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 ) ( BE ). As this diploma is in the same condition as the previous one, I ask the author whether we will proceed in the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u201	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u202	Therefore, we will vote, in general, not in the specialty and in the overall final vote, as contained in the vote script, Bill No. 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate funding mechanisms for promoting housing policies ( The seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on Bill No 850 / XIII ( 3. ( a) — Establish counter-ordinary punishment for harassment in the lease ( BE ), to which, as we are in the same situation, we will give the same treatment, so there will be no vote in the speciality or overall final vote. Let us then, in general, vote on this bill. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] Let us now vote together, in general, the projects of lein.os 897 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) - Change the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of vacation ( NAP) and 898 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 900 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( Thirteenth Amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 901 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The rules for the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now have the general vote on Bill No. 909/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (Tenteenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We voted for Bill No 902 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker ( Thirteenth Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 903 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reverts the cuts introduced by the PSD/CDS Government on holiday days, at compensatory rest, to the increase in remuneration due to additional work and devotes on Tuesday carnival as a compulsory holiday (Tenth fourth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We also generally vote for Bill No 904 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work ( Thirteenth Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 905 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal on objective grounds when the employer makes compensation available to the worker ( Thirteenth Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 912 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the revision of the Labour Code ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote on Bill No 136 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code and its regulations and the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u204	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u205	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I, Mrs Maria Mercês Borges and Mrs Carla Barros, Members of the Social Democratic Party and leaders of the Social Democrats, will present a statement of vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u208	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u209	Mr President, I shall, together with Mr Leitão Amaro, present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares also spoke. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u211	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u212	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Having been voted in favour, this diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We now turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 702 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop an incentive policy for enterprises promoting gender equality ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u214	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u215	It is to inform the Bureau that I shall present on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group a declaration of vote on the vote on draft resolution No 702 / XIII ( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u216	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We also voted for draft resolution No 711/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat discrimination against women and promote gender equality in the security forces ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Since there is no resolution for the same purpose, this vote is final. I would just like to ask you to make a waiting compass so that Mr President can take the presidency. [[Pause.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking Vice-President Jorge Lacão for leading the work so far. As has been agreed between all the benches, we will now vote on the motions for censure which were scheduled for the beginning of the sitting. Then we will continue with the votes in our script. Let's start with vote No 600 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Despite the death of Prof. Dr. Agostinho de Almeida Santos, presented by the CDS-PP and PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies, who will be read by Mr. Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u218	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 14th, at 77 years of age, Prof. Dr. Agostinho de Almeida Santos, doctor and professor of gynecology at the School of Medicine at the University of Coimbra. Pioneer of the Assisted Medicine Processing in Portugal, Augustine of Almeida Santos founded in Coimbra, in 1985, the programme of reproduction assisted medicine and it was who for the first time performed the GIFT (Gaméta Transfer to the Trump ) technique, alternative to traditional in vitro fertilization, whose first baby was born in June 1988. In 2008 the number of children who helped to come to the world stood at 17 thousand. during his academic life he published hundreds of scientific papers, gave more than 400 lectures and was responsible for the disciplines of Obstetrics and Ethics, Dentology and Medical Law of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Coimbra. Between 2005 and 2007, he was the president of the Board of Directors of Hospitals of the University of Coimbra. He left the clinical practice in January 2010, pointing out, at the end of 46 years, the end of his university and hospital career. In October of this year, he gave the traditional ‘last class’ in Paris, with the title Big Bang of the human being, on the 10th European Days of the French Society of Gynecology and Days Albert Netter, of the European Society of Gynecology. He was a member of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and of 18 national and international scientific societies. It was, since November 2009, Consul Honorário de Cabo Verde for the Central Region. He was grateful with 1. the Merit Medal Class by the President of the Republic of Cape Verde and with the order of Chevalier de L’Order National du Mérit by the President of the Republic of France. Indeliblely marking the beginning of drug reproduction assisted in Portugal, Augustine Almeida Santos always managed to reconcile its strong ethical principles with the development of this complex scientific area. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret over the death of Prof. Dr. Agostinho de Almeida Santos, an unmistakable reference to Portuguese Medicine, and conveys to his family and friends his sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u219	I am also associated with this vote. I greet and send my feelings to the family, here present. Let us then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have the vote No 603 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Laura Sovereign, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, CDS-PP and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u220	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great sadness that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of actress Laura Sovereign. Laura Sovereign was born in Benguela, Angola, on March 23, 1933. In Lisbon, in the 1960s, he attended the German Philology course, at the Faculty of Letters, and the National Conservatory Theatre School. His debut in the world of Theatre was in 1964, in the Fernando Pessoa Group, under the direction of João d’Ávila. There were numerous roles played in cinema and television, which was worth the recognition of criticism and of the general public. He worked with Manoel de Oliveira and Fernando Lopes, but also, more recently, with Miguel Gomes, in Tabu. He participated in several telenovelas in Portugal and Brazil. In 2013 Laura Sovereign received the Sophia Career Award from the Portuguese Academy of Cinema. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic pay tribute to the way of this remarkable name of Portuguese culture in recent decades, and express to their family and friends the most significant regret over their disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u221	Here too I wanted to send a hug to the daughters, here present. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on vote No 604 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of José Augusto Rocha, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic received the news of the death of lawyer José Augusto Rocha. José Augusto Rocha, born 25 October 1938, graduated in law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, where he was Director of the Academic Association of Coimbra. Following the academic crisis of 62, he was expelled from all national schools ( over the two-year period ), by decision of the University Senate, under charge of promoting 1. the National Meeting of Students, banned by the then Minister of National Education. He was still accused of the crime of disobedience to the Minister of National Education himself, having been arrested in the Forte de Caxias, from there released without guilt. enrolled in the Order of Advocates on 13 August 1968, he participated, as a lawyer, in numerous trials in the Criminal Court of Lisbon, defending political prisoners such as Francisco Canais Rocha, Diana Andringa, Fernando Rosas, Maria José Morgado, Vítor Ramalho, João Pulido Valente, Antonio Peres, José Mário Costa, Paula Rocha, Isabel Patrocínio or Saldanha Sanches. Member of the Management of the Safety Box in the triennium 1973 - 1975, had a very active intervention in the associations and electoral movements of the Advocates'Order, and was Chairman of the respective Human Rights Commission, in 2008. On 5 December 2017, he was thanked by the President of the Republic with the Order of Freedom, grade of Grand Official, following a proposal from the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Meeting in Plenary Session, members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to the memory of José Augusto Rocha, and transmit to their family, friends and companions of struggle the most sympathy for their disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u223	Thank you, Secretary. In solidarity with the widow and other family members present in the galleries, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to vote No 606 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of João Semedo, presented by BE and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Vice-President José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « He died on 17 July 2018, João Pedro Furtado da Cunha Semedo. Educated in a family environment of open discussion and struggle against dictatorship, João Semedo soon became a student activist, and was elected in 1972 to the Association of Students of the School of Medicine of the University of Lisbon. He had already joined the CFP in 1971, which would become a member of the Central Committee. The following year he was arrested in Caxias, refusing to sign the document prepared by the PIDE to confess subversive activities and to commit to abandoning them. After April 25, he developed an important action as a communist activist in Porto, particularly in the intellectual sector and in health policy. He participated in the foundation of the Union of Doctors of the North and the People's University of Porto and integrated the direction of FITEI and the artistic cooperative Árvore. He was President of the Board of Directors of Joaquim Urbano Hospital between 2000 and 2006, leaving the administration of the hospital in that year to be a Member of the Assembly of the Republic on an exclusive basis. He joined the Left Block in 2007 and joined his National Bureau, along with Catarina Martins, coordinator of the party between 2012 and 2014. It was parliamentary during three legislatures, elected by the Left Block, until it renounced the mandate for health reasons in March 2015. Its parliamentary activity was unusually important, especially in the area of health, something that is recognized by all political quadrants. It has indeed played a decisive role in the adoption of fundamental laws such as that of the vital will, the Charter of the Rights of Users of the SNS, the prescription by active principle, the status of the blood donor, follow-up in emergency services, the free discharge of medicines after hospital discharge and the inclusion of the price in the packaging of medicines. Several parliamentary committees (health, European affairs, budget and finance) and committees of inquiry to BPN, to the PT / TVI case and to the acquisition of submarines. Prevented by the disease from continuing its activity in full terms, he committed himself to fighting for the decriminalization of euthanasia, being one of the main activists of the Movement for the Right to Die with Dignity. His last contribution to Portuguese democracy was the proposal to review the Health Bases Act, which he worked together with António Arnaut, and which both published in a book with the title Save the National Health Service. In an interview when the disease had already severely limited it, John Semedo said: “I have chosen my life, the life I wanted, I have nothing to regret about what was important. I've always followed my intuition, never felt doing what I didn't want. Yes, I was very happy(...). Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its profound dismay at the death of the exemplary citizen and the great parliamentary officer who was John Semedo and expressed his grief to his family and friends and to the Block of the Left. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u225	As it is public and notorious, since yesterday, at 8 a.m. and 30 minutes, when Mr Vice-President informed me of the sad news, my solidarity has been permanent and present. I suppose it's a feeling shared by all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore continue with our vote script, which is not yet going on a third. In fact, not in a room—the second you're telling me and it's all optimistic people! We shall vote on draft resolution No 713 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote the transparency of remuneration with a view to eliminating wage inequalities between men and women ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We then voted on draft resolution No 1177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP ) ( text replaced by the author in the Commission ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and against the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] The diploma also falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u226	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u227	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u228	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that a statement of vote on this last vote will be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u229	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1545 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness and ensures the effective integration of the workers of the different Polis companies into the Portuguese Environment Agency ( CFP ) ( text replaced by the author in the resolution ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1026 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a working group within the framework of the feasibility of the urban conversion process in the area covered by the military service of the NATO Municipality Deposit in Lisbon, in Quinta da Lobateira and Pinhal das Freiras and in Pinhal da Palmeira, in Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal ( PSD ) ( text replaced by the author ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 434 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defense of the improvement of health care in the Coimbra district and the reversal of the merger process of CHUC hospitals ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1677 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to initiate procedures for the remodeling and expansion of the Hospital de Beja ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens, the PAN and PS Pedro do Carmo and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u230	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u231	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u232	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u233	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for access to nutritional supplements for specific medicinal purposes by patients in need of enteric or parenteral nutrition ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the existence of public school workers as necessary and with the appropriate link to the start of the 2018 / 2019 school year ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u235	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u236	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u237	Be registered. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1542 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the Ergonomie degree at the Faculty of Human Mobility of the University of Lisbon ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u239	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u240	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u241	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1642/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requalification of the Adriano Basic School Olive Correia of the Gaia Nascent School Grouping in Avintes ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1616 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Teachers of teaching Portuguese abroad ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u243	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u244	Mr President, it is to inform you that, on this last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u245	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government schedule retraining works of the Basic School 2, 3 Professor Delfim Santos, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 2 PS (Diogo Leone and Pedro Delgado Alves) and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso ( The Greens ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the general vote on draft resolutions Nos 1752 / XIII ( 3 ) as a whole. ( a ) — By expanding and improving the operational capacity of the Horta Airport track ( PCP ), 1762 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Horta Airport ( PSD ), 1765 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and expand Horta Airport ( CDS-PP ), and 1766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the Horta Airport track ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolutions now voted down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1647 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the Maia Basic School of Castle ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-ninth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply, and adapting a set of legislation avulva to this new scheme ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] In view of the outcome of this vote, voting on the draft law in the field of speciality and overall finality is adversely affected. Mrs. Members, let us proceed, with the general vote on draft law No 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May regulating the election of the President of the Republic, 16. the amendment to the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, approved by Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May, 8. the amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities bodies, 7. the amendment to the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, approved by Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April, and 3. the amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by Organic Law No 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil disability regime ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, in the same way, the general rejection of the draft law is detrimental to their vote in the speciality and global end. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 770 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revises the revision of the legal regime for urban leases, approved by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u246	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u247	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u248	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u249	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u250	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u251	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 781 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, recognizing the possibility of mutual resignation to legal heir to the Convention ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the cyberspace security legal regime by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on Decree-Law No 96 / 2017 of 10 August 2017 establishing the system of private electrical installations [ Parliamentary assessment No 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We proceeded to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on Decree-Law No 97 / 2017 of 10 August 2017 establishing the regime for gas installations in buildings[ Parliamentary assessment No 49 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 110 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the system of the largest accompanying, in place of the institutes of prohibition and incapacity. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 430 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves transparency measures to eliminate wage inequalities between men and women ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, with the general rejection of this bill, are adversely affected by their vote in the speciality and global end. We continue, in general, with the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 106 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for women and men by equal or equal value (the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of this text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] In relation to the same replacement text, it is now necessary to vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then turn to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u252	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u253	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u254	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u256	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u257	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u258	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u259	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us proceed, with the general vote on draft law No 693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP ), the text of which was replaced by the author in the Commission. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With the result of this vote, votes in the speciality and overall finality of the bill are adversely affected. We now turn to the general vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 77 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic and the Elections Act of the President of the Republic, and to the projects of lein. 426 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Organization of the electoral process abroad ( amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ) ( BE ), and 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Standardises the exercise of the right to vote of foreign voters by 21. the amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, to 16. the amendment to Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May, which approves the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic, to 6. the amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April approving the Electoral Law for the European Parliament, and to the repeal of Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( Organisation of the electoral process abroad ) ( PSD ). The initiatives were withdrawn by the authors in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] With regard to this replacement text, it is important to vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in particular in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text, which requires a qualified majority and therefore in accordance with Article 94 (4). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, must be carried out by means of electronic voting. I therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic system so that we can proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text, and we shall therefore vote for it. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 193 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and PAN) and 17 abstentions (CDS-PP).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u260	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u261	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u262	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that I cannot register and vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u263	Mr. Deputies, there were several Mrs. Members who have not been able to do so - starting with Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão, but also Vice-President José Manuel Pureza and Mrs. Members Hugo Pires, Jorge Machado... I assume that everyone, according to their benches, voted in favour and therefore the result is still more expressive. We are voting in general on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 78 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of the electoral census, and to the projects of lein. 427 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Election rehabilitation of Portuguese citizens living abroad ( BE ) and 517 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Make the electoral census of Portuguese citizens living abroad informal and automatic, starting at 5. the amendment to Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March, which establishes the new legal regime of the electoral census ( PSD ), these initiatives that were withdrawn by the authors in favor of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held, especially at the Commission level, on the same text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We proceeded to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 848 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, to improve the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( the seventy-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966 ) ( BE ), the initiative is withdrawn by the author in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes of the same diploma in the speciality of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 579 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Elimination of the risk of asbestos in buildings, installations and business equipment ( The Greens) and 618 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibres still present in buildings, facilities and private forum equipment, including private companies and private housing (NAP). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft law No 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the NAP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u264	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u265	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u266	Mr President, it is only to announce that on this vote I will deliver a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u267	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft law No 812 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u268	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u269	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u270	Mr President, it is to be announced that on the last two votes the CFP will make an oral vote at the end of the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft law No 820 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Independent Technical Observatory for the analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolution No 887 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists/ dietists in institutions in the social and solidarity sector providing care to the elderly ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u272	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u273	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u274	Mr President, it is to request the final drafting of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u275	Madam Member, this request is made in the form of a request and must be voted on. We shall then vote on the oral request submitted by the PSD for the final drafting of the diploma we have just voted on. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1572 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso ( PCP ) and 1611 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of School EB 2 / 3 Professor Gonçalo Sampaio in Póvoa de Lannoso ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS members (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and with abstentions from PSD and PS.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the High School Joaquim de Araújo in Penafiel ( BE ), 1629 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the Basic School of South Penafiel, of the Grouping of the Joaquim Schools of Araújo ( BE ) and 1745 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works at Joaquim High School in Araújo, Penafiel ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 1615 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Henrique Medina High School, Esponnde ( BE ) and 1731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation of Henrique Medina High School in Esponende and removes all asbestos fibration plates ( CDS-PP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] It's the same seven gentlemen. Members of the Braga district who recently voted in favour. This, really, reminds PIDDAC, in the old and the bad times.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u276	Whoever's done with him must be sorry by now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u277	We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 1624 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the urgent requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar ( BE ), 1633 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ) ( Os Verdes ), 1639 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PSD ), 1683 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in the requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PCP ) and 1690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz on the national list of schools to be re-qualified with funds from Portugal 2020 ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1628 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Valbom Secondary School ( Gondomar ) ( BE ), 1667 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the High School of Valbom, Gondomar ( PSD ) and 1733 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent retraining and rehabilitation of the Valbom High School in order to ensure the dignity of the entire school community ( CDS-PP ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 4 PS (Carla Sousa, Fernando Jesus, Joana Lima and Ricardo Bexiga) and the PS abstention.]] We continue, with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1630 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( BE ), 1687 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgently retraining works at Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ) and 1697 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent retraining of the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( The Greens ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 4 PS Members (Helena Roseta, Joaquim Raposo, Pedro Delgado Alves and Ricardo Leon) and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1386 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures recognizing the informality of the traditional carnival dances and leases of the Third Island against the payment of copyright ( PSD ) and 1716 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the evaluation of means of incentive and protection of original and non-profit cultural events ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 544 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Valuation and promotion of the Lorvão Monastery ( PSD ) and 534 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Museum and full operation of the Museum of the Lorvão Monastery ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1468 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent measures for strengthening and correcting the financing of the arts under the competitions of the Directorate-General for Arts ( BE ), 1472 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to correct the results of the competition to support the arts, to strengthen its financing and to revise its support model ( CFP ) and 1600 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From the immediate beginning of the process of revision of the model of support for the arts in effective co-operation with the agents of the sector ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u278	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u279	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u280	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u281	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 890 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Independent Commission for Decentralisation ( PSD and PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u282	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u283	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u284	Mr President, it is in order to announce that I will present a declaration of vote on this last vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 1301 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures to resolve the situation of non-compliance of residents in the social districts owned by the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute ( PCP ) and 1676 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — It creates measures that enable the fair regularization of situations of non-compliance to which the residents of the social neighbourhoods ( BE) were forced. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on draft resolutions Nos 1659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Study of air quality, epidemiological study and measures mitigating recurrent pollution caused by the olive slurry factory in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( BE ), 1675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote urgent measures to put an end to the environmental and public health problem in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo, as a result of the extraction of olive oil, returning to the population the deserving quality of life ( PSD ), 1691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to improve the quality of life of the population of Fortes, in the county of Ferreira do Alentejo, eliminating pollution caused by the oil slurry extraction company ( PCP ), 1711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to solve environmental problems related to the processing of olive slurry ( CDS-PP ) and 1717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of pollution caused by the extraction company of olive oil in the town of Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific training ( CFP ) with use. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 535 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ( legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ), clarifying that any opposition from the condominium to the exploitation of local housing establishments shall be recorded in the title constituting horizontal property, the condominium regulation contained in that title or in the regulation governing condominium or deliberation of the assembly of approved condominiums approved without opposition and provided that properly registered ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the general rejection of this bill prejudices the voting of a request, submitted by the CDS-PP, of a lawyer by the plenary of the vote, in the specialty, of its proposed addition, as well as of the votes in the speciality and overall end of the bill. Thus, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal arrangements for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u286	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u287	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u288	Mr President, I know that this is not the first time this has happened, but there is a situation that we have to resolve once and for all. We have just voted on a project that has been rejected, but has not been withdrawn in favour of the replacement text. In my land it is used to say: “He who eats it in chimpanzees does not eat it in goats”. [[Rises and applause from PS and PS Members.]] Therefore either the project is voted on and is plunged or withdrawn in favour of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u289	Mr President, I have been informed that the Left Block has asked for your initiative to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u290	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u291	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u292	Mr President, we only follow the rules put in place by Mr President on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u293	All right, then, let's continue the votes. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on the replacement text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 524 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August, clarifying the scheme for the authorisation of the operation of local housing establishments ( PS ), 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August as amended by Decree-Law No 63 / 2015 of 23 April 2015 establishing the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( CFP ), 653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March) ( BE) and 723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines that for every three buildings under local lease arrangements the owner shall ensure that the fourth property is intended for long-term lease ( NAP ), with the PS, the CFP and the NAP withdrawing its initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u294	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u295	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u296	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party wishes to proceed with an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u297	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The explanations of vote shall be made at the end of the proceedings. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the same replacement text, we now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 442 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Framework law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of responsibilities and competences to local authorities ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, the vote on an application by the PCP for a vote by the plenary of the vote in the speciality of Articles 5. o, 6. o, 7. o, 9. o and 11. this bill and consequently the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in the specialty, in the Commission, as well as the overall final vote of the same initiative. Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in the speciality, in the seat of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, in respect of draft law No 449 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities in education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health and food security, heritage and housing ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote, in general, on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and autonomy of local authority, which was withdrawn by the Government in favour of the replacement text, and draft law No 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and inter-municipal entities and for fregueses in the context of education, health, social action, territorial management, forest management, coastal management, veterinary medicine, animal health and food security ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u298	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u299	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u300	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings with regard to the next vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u301	Mr President, I have not yet started the debate on the next vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u302	But there is no discussion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u303	There is, there is, Mr, because time has been required for this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u304	Mr President, my question is on the voting methodology, on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u305	Time has been required for speeches on this vote and each parliamentary group will therefore have two minutes, as is usual. It is the custom, therefore, to vote on this request presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u306	Mr President, I am sorry, but I am asking for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u307	But I would ask that we vote for the PCP, first of all, because if the request is not approved for any reason, we will not need time and, therefore, it is not worth being hasty, is it not true, Mr President? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, following the request made by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Articles 4. o, 5. a is 7. the proposal of Law No 62 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and autonomy of local authority. To introduce it, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor, two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that we are before an unusual vote in this Parliament. The PS and PSD imposed a vote on Parliament when the conditions for its implementation were not met. The Assembly of the Republic does not have the elements to enable it to take a serious and responsible decision on these matters and to move forward with such a process and thus in fact only shames the PS and PSD. I would also like to point out that we are not dealing with any process of decentralisation, we are dealing with a process that is going to shape the State, we are dealing with a process that will harm the people, with the degradation of public service and with the non-guaranteeship of the social functions of the State, we are dealing with a process that does not guarantee the whole of means so that these powers can be transferred to the authorities — financial means, human resources, technical means and their impact from the point of view of the authorities — we are dealing with a process that is no longer a process than a deresponsibility of the State and a transfer of charges to the authorities, and further overturning the authorities as we know them and which have been enshrined in our Constitution, following the April Revolution. That is why, Mr President, we call on the plenary to vote on a number of proposals which have been approved, especially in the Commission, but which demonstrate exactly what we are exposing here: a process that will penalise the people, a process that does not guarantee the universality of education, health and culture. With regard to this matter, what we have before us is in fact an agreement between the PS and the PSD which is harmful to the people. Mr President, in conclusion, I cannot fail to mention that the PSD gives the Socialist Party a hand here to move forward with a process that would otherwise not be implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u309	Madam Member, you have to finish, we are not in a position to allow time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u310	...because the government was unable to do it alone. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u311	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on the request which has just been submitted by Mrs Paula Santos. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u312	Now there it is: PS and PS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u313	They only give reason to what has been said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u314	Therefore, the votes on pages 62...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u315	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the vote to be taken, i.e. on the assumption...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u316	I'm sorry, but I'm using the floor, sir. As I was saying, the votes on pages 62, 63, 64 and 65 of the script are exceeded by the events and by the vote on the appeal. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira wants to talk about the full-time assumption, is that it? But do you intend to make an inquiry to the Bureau? It is that we never have interventions on this point, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u317	It is not an intervention, it is an explanation of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u318	Please, then. That is a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u319	No, it is not a statement of vote. Articles 164. o is 168. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic establishes the obligation to vote, in the specialty, in the plenary, on certain matters, such as this which we are discussing. This means that each Member must be given the right to vote on the articles in question. The Assembly of the Republic adopted — and adopted well! — a few years ago, because it was not previously the methodology of voting on the assumption by the plenary, on a block basis, of the indexary votes held in committee. There are Members who do not belong, in particular, to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, as is my case with regard to what will be voted on. Therefore, what I am asking for, so that the effectiveness of the parliamentary vote does not prejudice the individual right of Members, is that the vote on the recruitment by the plenary is done in relation to Articles 1. o 43. the, in block, and separately in relation to Article 44. the, which I even consider to be unconstitutional. Anyway, the question is...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u320	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u321	I think I was clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u322	I get it, but we can't open an exception here. We shall vote as usual and the honourable Member will make a statement saying what he thinks about Article 44. We'll vote for the plenary...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u323	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u324	You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u325	Mr President, I believe that Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira is right, because the Constitution obliges this vote to be taken in plenary. On the issue of ease, we can take the indexary vote in the Commission by giving the honourable Member the opportunity to clarify his sense of vote in relation to the article he disagrees with. I think that would simplify everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u326	But that is exactly what I was proposing, and this can be done through a statement of vote or can be done in any other way. [[Pause.]] Then we will vote for the plenary as requested by Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, of the indexary votes by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, concerning Articles 1. o 43. the text of the replacement concerning the proposal for law No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft law No 383 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now vote for the plenary of the indexary vote held in the Committee on the Environment, Territorial Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, relating to Article 44. that of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and a vote against 1 PS Member (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] In particular, the indexary votes of the replacement text were adopted. We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and autonomy of local authority and draft law No 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities and in the fregeges in education, health, social action, territorial management, forest management, coastal management, veterinary medicine, animal health and food security ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u327	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u328	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u329	Mr President, I would like to say that, on the vote on the replacement text that we have just done and on the vote on the bill amending the Local Finance Act, which will take place within a few minutes, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to make an oral vote at the end of the votes. I am aware that Mr Vasconcelos will do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u330	All right. It will be another statement of oral vote, the third that is announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u331	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u332	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Berta Cabral, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u333	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u334	All right. So it's already five. Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u335	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u336	We are, then, six oral explanations of vote. Mrs. Susana Amador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u337	It is also for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u338	All right. Therefore, there are seven oral explanations of vote. Mr António Leitão Amaro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u339	Mr President, I would like to announce that, with regard to the vote we have just taken and with regard to the next vote, that of the proposal for a law governing the Local Finance Act, I make a written statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 551 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Local Finance Act ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The request submitted by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Articles 2. o, 9. o, 10. o, 11. o, 12. it's 13. the draft law No 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) is damaged. Thus, the votes on pages 68 to 81 of the script are also affected, with the exception of the last vote on page 81. Let us then proceed to the general vote on draft law No 883/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the financial autonomy of municipalities and introduces judicial measures in municipal taxes ( seventh amendment to the Financial Regime of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities and 33 ). the amendment to CIMI ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Change the Local Finance Act. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, of 3 PSP (Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa) and 1 PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira) and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, in order to make the submission of an application by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Articles 2. o, 5. o, 25. o is 85. the final text on Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the other part of the process where the PS and PSD also prevented the Assembly of the Republic from doing its work in a serious and responsible way. To do, in one week, the whole process of specialty, in a law of this dimension, of this complexity and this impact, we can only consider that, at least, it is pure irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u342	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u343	But more than that, this process is far from consensual. Not only has it not been consensual in the Municipal Association of Municipalities, as after the announced agreements of the various agreements, there have already come to the public several authorships who have placed on the table the fact that the conditions are not guaranteed, nor the means to allow the authorities to continue with their duties and powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u344	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u345	When priority, as we put in our proposal, is the recovery of the financial capacity of the municipalities, allowing municipalities and the parish to be provided with resources to continue with their current framework of tasks and competences, what we find is that the PS and PSD agreed, in fact, the PSD sold to this agreement for 0, 25 % of VAT in 2020... [[PSD protests, having MPs punched their hands on the bench.]] See, 0, 25 % of VAT in 2020!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u346	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u347	Mrs. Members, in fact, we understand your discomfort because they sell themselves for 0, 25 % of VAT by 2020, it must embarrass you as we see in this Parliament. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: it is unacceptable that, in such a process, what is proposed... Continuation of PSD protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u348	I would ask you to let the honourable Member make the request. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u349	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is unacceptable that, in such a process, the proposal which is now approved by the PS and the PSD will maintain the non-compliance of the law and does not provide the necessary means. With this, we cannot compromise! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u350	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on a request by the CFP for a vote on Articles 2 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure by the plenary. o, 5. o, 25. o is 85. the final text on Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Therefore, the votes, in the specialty, on page 82 on page 88 of the script are damaged. We shall then vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization. Is there any Member who would like to establish a partition between this assumption here? Let's vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Change the Local Finance Act. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and PS, against BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN, of 3 Members of the PSD (Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo, Sara Madruga da Costa) and of 1 Member of the PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u351	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u352	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u353	Mr President, I would just like to announce that, with regard to the last vote, I will present, on my own behalf, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u354	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Ascension Simões, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u355	Mr President, it is also in the same sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u356	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Helena Roseta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u357	Mr President, I would ask the Bureau from time to time to look back. I abstained and did not hear my vote announced, but I may have heard badly. I abstained in the overall final vote of the final text on Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u358	Madam Member, it is perfectly possible that this is a problem of vision, but in fact none of us here at the Bureau have seen. Therefore, there is also an abstention from Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u359	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u360	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u361	Mr President, I would like to announce that on my own behalf, on behalf of Mrs Rubina Berardo and Mr Paulo Neves, elected Members of Madeira, we will present a statement of vote on our votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u362	All right. Be registered. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u363	Mr President, I just wanted to announce a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u364	Be registered. Mrs. Helena Roseta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u365	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u366	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u367	Mr President, I would like to make a correction to a vote by the CDS Parliamentary Group. If you think it's appropriate, I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u368	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u369	Mr President, it is to correct a CDS vote that took place more than an hour ago and that was not soon done for not wanting to interrupt the normal course of work, but to stay up to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u370	As long as you don't change the result...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u371	It doesn't change the whole result. With regard to draft law No 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), we, however, voted in favour, when we really wanted to abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u372	What's the page, Mr. Deputy, you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u373	It's on page 28.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u374	It is to be duly registered this misunderstanding. Even before the explanations of vote, paragraphs 92 to 101 of the Diário are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 5, 6, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 27, 29 and 29 June 2018, and paragraphs 102 to 104, for plenary meetings of 4, 5, and 6 July 2018. Let's vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco will report on an opinion and two reports and opinions of the Ethics Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights and Freedoms. You have the word Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u375	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Judge 3, Case No 3178 / 16.8T9.LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. PSD Members Hugo Lopes Soares and Luís Campos Ferreira to intervene in the proceedings, within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u376	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u377	Mr President, he also gave the Bureau a report and an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas ( PS ), an electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by José Magalhães, with effect from 1 September 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver of the mandate required by Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas fulfils the legal requirements and must be replaced by José Magalhães, with effect from 1 September 2018, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u378	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before submitting the opinion to the opinion, I would like to wish Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas the greatest happiness for the future and to say that we will need it. The opinion is therefore appreciated. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u379	Mr President, you have also given the Bureau a report and an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to suspension and replacement in accordance with Article 4(1) (a) and (b ). the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ), a electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by Maria of the Conceição Almeida Fernandes Loureiro, to take place on 19 September 2018 and 10 October 2018, limiting itself to the period of the days indicated above, ending at the end of the appointed days. The opinion is for the purpose of suspending the mandate of Mrs Joana Lima fulfils the legal requirements, and must be replaced by Maria of the Conceição Almeida Fernandes Loureiro on 19 September 2018 and 10 October 2018, limiting herself to the period of the days indicated above, ending at the end of the appointed days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u380	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the period of oral explanations of vote. The first oral vote is on the vote on the final texts submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein. 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ) and 812 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( CFP ). Mr John Dias has the floor for this purpose. It has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unbelievable! It is unbelievable what has just happened to the lead of compensation for producers by creating fuel management bands. It is unbelievable and shows how serious the PSD is and how it is committed to PS. [[PSD protests.]] Having voted favourably in general and in the speciality of the two draft laws, the PSD now decides to leave the final text relating to these initiatives in a comprehensive final vote, giving in to the requirements of the PS and the Government for producers to be without compensation. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD and PS joined in the overall final vote of the final text to prevent the owners affected from being compensated. The creation of fuel management bands, with the dimension provided for in Decree-Law No 10 / 2018, imposes the loss of income, which, in the current legislative framework, is not compensated. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] In the case of forest owners in mini-fundia, this obligation may even prevent forest exploitation by favouring the abandonment of the rural world, and you have to assume responsibility for it. Your policies contribute to the abandonment of the rural world. The defence of the forest against fires must incorporate an extended set of measures that go beyond the media campaign for cleaning forest land. The revision of the criteria to be applied in the creation of primary and secondary fuel management ranges is essential. The 2017 fires have come to nude the absence of forest planning, the absence of planning, and much more. When it was said that nothing could stay like before, here's the proof. At the last hour, PS imposed on PSD the currency of exchange by the Local Finance Act and gives the saying by no means, leaving the owners and the forestry order in harm. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u382	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect each other. We are all quite tired after so many hours of debate, but I ask that we listen. For a declaration of vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 524 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 574 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 653 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 723 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), on amendments to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 on local accommodation, has the floor Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment that was adopted today is only the reflection of the reservations of principle that the PS, the Left Block and the CFP cultivate regarding the local accommodation, which they consider largely an economic activity often undesirable. Therefore, rather than taking the opportunity to improve the regime, recognizing its heritage, its value, its potential in job creation, the qualification of tourism supply and urban rehabilitation, something else has happened. Territorially limited solutions should have been built to improve the regime, but it was done exactly the opposite: the regime was demonized, a very significant step backwards, not an advance. That is why the result is bad in nuclear aspects. Bad, because an absurd dispute resolution mechanism has been set up, which will have no effect other than to potentiate conflicts and make more and more assemblies of fertile land condominiums, civil wars and camera presidents the referees who do not wish to be. Bad, because it will destroy the unity of the law, opening the door to which each one regulates the local accommodation in an avulous way, not only when other values should prevail, whether they are the tourist overload or the identity of spaces, in circumstances that should be the exception but that the approved diploma admits that they may become the rule. Bad, because the transmissibility of the holding can be ruled out, i.e. ceases the activity and benefits are paid, which constitutes a discriminatory treatment, the same with respect to the number of local accommodation that can be held. Bad, yet, because the system of capital gains has not been corrected, protecting those with lower incomes and undertaking the activity on an accessory basis. Bad, at the bottom, because since 2015, year after year, in all State budgets, there is a persecution policy against local housing without any basis for this effect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u384	We turn to the explanations of vote on the replacement text tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft law No 383 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Mr. João Vasconcelos of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives that have been approved, the responsibility of the Government and the PSD, within the framework of decentralization of competences for the authorities and inter-municipal entities, such as the revision of the new Local Finance Act, cannot be disconnected. All of this is the result of a central bloc agreement between the Government, the PS and the PSD. It is clear that the Constitution of the Republic itself is not fulfilled. According to the Constitution of the Republic, it is said that the principle of subsidiarity is imperative, which defines the transfer of competences to authorities, bodies directly elected by populations, parish, municipalities and regions. On regionalization, nothing, not a word, not a word! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] On the other hand, we will also see a deresponsibility of universal social functions, such as health, education and culture. Many authorities will say that they will not have enough resources, such as financial resources, human resources and technical resources, and of course they will make concessions to private parties. These services will tend to deteriorate and create more difficulties in access and use of citizens. Indeed, both this law of transfer of competences, as well as the Local Finance Act, will contribute to the worsening of asymmetries and inequalities between municipalities. The interior municipalities will be more penalized and the other municipalities will be privileged. In fact, the Left Block does not agree with this type of negotiation, it is a negotiation of the central bloc. Deep down, we watch PS and PSD go to each other's arms. They will therefore not be able to count on the Left Block on these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u386	Mrs Berta Cabral, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this point in which we have just approved the process of transferring competences to local power, it should be stressed that it was the former PSD/CDS government that started this reform through the implementation of pilot projects in the social areas of education, health and culture. The PSD, from the outset, considered that this process should be formally and politically composed by the framework law, by the sectoral decrees, by the revision of the Local Finance Act and by the definition of financial resources associated with each Authority. in this sense, on behalf of the national interest, the PSD concluded an agreement with the Government based on those three pillars that I have just mentioned. Thanks to PSD, the whole process was treated and appreciated globally and simultaneously.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u388	Kill the horses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u389	The principle of gradualism was enshrined until 2021. The values to be transferred to local authorities will be entered in the State budgets over the next three years through the funding fund for decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u390	How do you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u391	The implementation of this task and these transfers will be accompanied by a committee with representatives of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the National Association of Freguess, the Government and Parliament. The establishment of an independent committee for decentralization at subnational level was also approved today. With all this, I must add that the process of decentralization is not complete. The legislation now approved represents a very significant step, but the PSD wants to go further. We put ambition and expectation in the work of the independent committee for decentralization at subnational level. It is in this context that the PSD is associated with the law now approved on behalf of Portuguese and Portuguese municipalities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u392	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With some memory effort, we still have to remind everyone here in Parliament of the time when the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, said that decentralization was the great reform of the state. As is often the case, this government has a lot of difficulty moving from words to actions. This moment and the irresponsibility — irresponsibility is the word — with which this process is being approved in Parliament is another example of how words have not gone into action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u394	That's direct to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u395	This reform of the State was first, little more than an intention; then it appeared with some generic intentions and some very little-specified proposals; and finally, through the Local Finance Act, we know what the government really planned. What the government was planning was for Parliament to pass a blank check to do exactly what it understood about decentralization and with the cameras, and PS and PSD passed that blank check to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u396	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u397	That's the great irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u399	Today Parliament has resigned from having an active voice in decentralization and, at the same time as we see many independent elected authors outside the country with the support of the CDS and also autoarchs of the Socialist Party and the PSD criticize this process...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u400	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u401	... not only for lack of means and for decentralisation, but also because the chambers will turn into central government posts, doing what the government simply does not have patience to do, the PSD and the PS hand over to the government, pass a blank check and, moreover, force Parliament to approve, to the three sides, what could and should be the great reform of this decade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u402	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u403	It is unfortunate that this happens. More: not content with this, with regard to the approval of the Local Finance Act, they also called into question territorial cohesion—the proposals of the CDS which had a special word for territorial cohesion were dropped. On the basis of all this, he still uses himself to de-responsibility not only for his decisions, but also for leaders, who are no longer financially responsible for his decisions. It's regrettable! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u404	Mrs. Susana Amador from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a very important day. It is a very important day for the Portuguese authorities, for the municipalities and for the parish and, above all, for the populations they represent. It is also a very important day for the Socialist Party, for this Parliamentary Group, which has always wanted this reform, a reform included in our Electoral Programme, in our Government Programme, in the Agenda for the Decade. It is, for us, a political imperative, a programmatic imperative and a constitutional imperative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u406	And the attached PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u407	I would also like to say, Mr President and Mr. Members, who, by this reform being structural and being so important for the people of this country also had, as could not fail to have, the accession and agreement in principle both of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, or of ANAFRE, which, from the first hour, since they began working in this process, over two years, were giving their proposals, their contributions, in thematic groups, and therefore gave us their favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u408	AnMP! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u409	It is a reform legitimized by these bodies that represent the municipalities, the parish and thousands of autarchs by this country outside and its populations. [[PCP protests.]] Today, too, with this reform and with this framework law of decentralization, we have seen a paradigm shift. Portugal, one of the most centralised countries of the European Union, now departs to another level, decentralising, seeking a more agile and closer state, to serve the people better because we are, above all, with this reform, decentralising, allocating competences to the parish and municipalities that are close public power. They are also part of the State and therefore there is no deresponsibility of the State. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] With this reform, in addition to changing the paradigm, we are also affirming the constitutional principle of subsidiarity and therefore is a reform with a constitutional mandate. [[Continuation of protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It will be accompanied, will have scrutiny and will be accompanied by the OECD and a committee which has been set up within the framework law for decentralization. It is a reform that will take place gradually, which will enter full, in 2021...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u410	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u411	... and that, with the sectoral decrees, more than 20 will be operationalized, and with this we will certainly vote with this Parliament to follow this reform, which opens the door to decentralization and democratization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u412	For a statement of vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is indeed a historic day for strengthening the autonomy of local power with regard to the decentralization of new competences and the amendment of the Local Finance Act, which is essential for its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u414	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u415	This amendment will strengthen the implementation of the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the fact that the financing of the authorities will monitor the strengthening of their powers and at the same time allow the convergence of the European average of participation in public revenue. The approved bill also envisages the full compliance of the Local Finance Act, which has long been claimed by the authors of all political forces, from then on through the National Association of Municipalities. It should be noted that, in relation to the municipalities, compliance will be phased out in three years and for the parish in two years, having, in the latter case, been an anticipation of one year, making local finances more sustainable and thus allowing better respond to the needs of the populations. In addition to complying with the Local Finance Act, we also highlight the participation of the local authority in respect of VAT revenues of 7, 5 % and the implementation of the revenue relating to IMI on state buildings without use for more than three years. We therefore point out the moment which marks a turning point in the financial autonomy and the competences of the democratic local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u416	We have come to the end of the explanations of vote. We still have several information to give, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco, with my thanks. You have the floor, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u417	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr President has admitted the drafts of lein.o 963 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in the security forces and services ( PCP ), which are lower than 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 10. a Commission, 964 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Extends the framework of competences recognised to architects in the direction of work and direction of supervision of work by amending Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 965 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the obligations of the managing entities of the hunting zones to be required to include population estimates of the kinetic species in their plans ( NAPs ), which fall to 7. the Commission, and 966 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the conservation of wildlife and kinetic species in the context of post-fire ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission. In addition, draft resolutions Nos 1773 / XIII ( 3 ) were accepted. ( a ) — Because of the need to recover the profession of guardians, in the preservation and control of water resources ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, and 1774 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implementation of measures for the monitoring and depollution of watercourses in the Esmoriz Quarter / Lagoa de Paramos ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-18.u418	We have thus reached the end of this plenary meeting. There will be, as you know, committee meetings by the end of the month, a Conference of Leaders tomorrow and several other important events. Thank you very much and so on. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 26 minutes.]]
