ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, which consists of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is the parliamentary groups that begin to take the floor to ask questions to Mr. Prime Minister, I ask Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file. Mr. Secretary ( Duarte Pacheco ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1468 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — urgent measures for strengthening and correcting the financing of the arts under the competitions of the Directorate-General for Arts ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1469 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( President of the HR ), 1470 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent requalification of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1472 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures for correcting the results of the competition for arts support, strengthening its financing and revising its support model ( CFP ), which falls to 12. the Commission. Mrs. Members, there is also a report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the resignation of Mr Luís Montenegro ( PSD ), Aveiro electoral circle, and must be replaced by Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz, with effect from 6 April, including. The opinion is that the waiver of the mandate required by Mr Luís Montenegro fulfils the legal requirements and must be replaced by Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz, with effect from 6 April 2018, including. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u2	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Luís Montenegro is now leaving office in the Assembly of the Republic. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic for 16 consecutive years. during this period, he served as President of the PSD Parliamentary Group for seven years, always defended his views with frontality, while maintaining a cordiality and loyalty to his opponents who cannot fail to be underlined at this time. While I was President of the PS Parliamentary Group two and a half years ago, I had the opportunity to get to know better and I think I can say that, in addition to loyal opponents, we became friends and good friends. He's still young, he's got a lot of talent and a lot of time ahead of him. I know that it will continue to intervene politically in a public space, and that only enriches the plurality of views that form Portuguese democracy. I believe that, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, we can all wish to do so—and I question that—the greatest happiness for your personal, political and professional life. [[PSD and CDS-PP (Standard), PAN and PS applause.]] I think Mr Luís Montenegro has asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : Mr President, I would just like to thank you for your words on this occasion, to be able to pay you the kindness with which you have addressed them and, through you, to send a very special greeting to the whole Parliamentary world, to the Members of Parliament, to the members of the Government who interact with Parliament, to the advisers and officials of Parliament and to the parliamentary groups, to the Members of Parliament. Journalists and all those who, during the sessions, attend our work. Today I put a final point to 16 years of exercise of the parliamentary mandate. I must confess to you that it was a very great honor, a pride, a privilege to serve the country and also my party in these functions. I think I can safely say that I leave without leaving any enmity even in relation to all those who develop their activity in the other benches. In a particular way, I would like to address those who have led the benches of the Left Block, the Communist Party, the Green Party, the Socialist Party and the CDS-PP as they perform this function in my parliamentary group. I could name them all, but if they would allow me, I would send a special hug to them all, who shared with the Bureau of the Assembly the organization of the work at the Conference of Leaders, in the person of the Parliamentary leader of the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães, who supported the only coalition government in Parliament which, since 25 April, has managed to last an entire legislature. Therefore, in this symbolic record, they accept all parliamentary groups and their leadership, words of respect, of recognition for the effort that everyone makes to promote and protect the national interest and the interest of our fellow citizens. As I said recently, I am very confident that I have given what I knew, the best I knew, and found in all parliamentary groups and in all Members a great effort to promote the well-being of our fellow citizens and the progress and prosperity of our country. I would like to say good-bye, asking everyone to continue, in the lively debate, to express their views, to try to explain their positions and also to not lose focus on what is today a requirement for the preservation of the principles of democracy: the enhancement of parliamentary work. This is the Mother House of Democracy, it is the only sovereign body in which the plurality of the political will of the people is ensured, and the appreciation of the role of Members must be a safeguard for the free exercise of their mandate. I therefore ask everyone, with great respect, that they can build a regime of political and parliamentary functioning that dignifies political activity and resists populism, because I take with me the conviction that populism is the father of mediocrity and mediocrity is the mother of poverty. And what I hope is that Parliament will seek excellence and find the creation of wealth. [[PSD (on foot), CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u4	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u5	Mr President, I would not dare to speak on behalf of all my fellow Members who are presidents of the parliamentary groups using the motto given by Mr Luís Montenegro, but I shall certainly speak on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group and all of its Members and Members to tell Mr Luís Montenegro that it has been a privilege for me, during all these years, either in coalition, or as different non-related parties, working together, working almost always or often convergently, but also sometimes with differences — here, some public, some less, but with divergences — knowing how to converge up to that same difference and to witness the exemplary form, I would say, as Mr Luís Montenegro has performed the functions for what he believed, enjoying himself more or being less, but thus worrying the public cause, with competence, with consistency, with loyalty to all of me, as he has always done, in my case, to allow. What is more, allow me to deny a sentence often said, a phrase that is deeply wrong - I think we will all agree: that in politics there are no friends. It's a lie, and these friends can even be different parties. It was the policy that made us friends — I think I can say this, my dear Luís — and that is obviously the most important thing for us from a personal point of view. But surely the testimony of this capacity, of that competence as a Member, is the one I would like to leave. Fortunately, everyone in political life will continue to be able to count on Mr Luís Montenegro, who has announced that it will not — and still well — emerge from political life, so what remains of me is to wish, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, the greatest personal and professional happiness. We're probably going to see each other. A hug, Luís. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u6	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore take the agenda today, which consists of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. First of all, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u7	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the competition to support the arts must serve primarily to stimulate, expand, intensify creativity, artistic expression, artistic disclosure, the democratization of the arts, but this last competition to support the arts, Mr Prime Minister, has once again shown that it often has the opposite effect that it is precisely that of the demotivating and the limitation of cultural agents. The truth, Prime Minister, is that this competition has clearly shown that criteria and models are not appropriate. It is the government itself that many eligible ones have been left out, for example, many companies that were able to be contemplated have been left out. And this competition has also shown that funding is clearly insufficient. The government has announced some reinforcements — allow me to express myself — tiny. For example, by 2018, it has established a reinforcement of 15 million to 17 million in support of the arts and this morning in the face of the opposition of the agents, Mr. Prime Minister has announced another reinforcement of EUR 2, 2 million, moving to EUR 19, 2 million. Mr Prime Minister, the minimum that is considered fair for this support, taking into account the size of the sector, is EUR 25 million. And the question that the Greens are asking, very directly, is to know why this reinforcement does not go to EUR 25 million and whether Mr. Prime Minister would eventually consider that it would be to waste money. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u8	To reply, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa, has the floor to congratulate all the members of the Government here present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u9	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, this competition was opened with a new model, which was designed in a rather participated way, which was translated into a law decree, into a regulation, and either one, or the other, did not raise any dispute. Jurises were appointed, which also did not raise any dispute. The budget of the Ministry of Culture, like the budget of any other ministry, was approved in this Assembly of the Republic. contrary to what I have heard, this year's competition had no less money, but more money. In its original version alone, it had an increase of 41 % compared to the amount allocated in the same period of the previous invitation to tender, with an increase of 46, 6 to 64 million euros. There are two types of entities that have not benefited from the invitation to tender. Some have not benefited, because the jury simply considered that they were not deserving of support. Several of those who have been referred to as examples in the media did not receive support not because of a lack of budget, but because the jury felt that they were not deserving of support. Second type of situation: there were companies or entities that did not benefit from budgetary restrictions, but when an invitation to tender is opened with an amount of money, the amount is the limit of that contract. For example, when a two-engineer recruitment contest is opened, eight engineers can even appear, all of them able to perform that function, but, if the vacancy is for two, they are the first two classified ones to enter and the other six do not enter. That's what happened in this contest. There is, however, a reason why we should ask ourselves whether, in this particular case, it is justified without overturning the decisions of the jury, without altering the hierarchy that has already been made, to extend the budget allocation. And, in the view of the government, there is a reason. Why? Because, being a new model, which, like all new models, should be evaluated before being given by consolidated, it would be premature to compromise the continuity of support to entities that already benefited from it. But there were other entities which, having no previous support, were now better classified than those, so we extended the allocation so that this could be possible. When you say that support is minor, Mrs Deputies, what I am telling you is that there are 43 entities that were not included in the lists so far disclosed to receive support and that they will have to do so with this budgetary reinforcement. It is the appropriate measure to allow and ensure a serene evaluation of the new model...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u10	You've outlived the time you had, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u11	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, it is the right measure for us to evaluate a model that is new and removes the illusions to be removed, confirming it or changing it, if necessary. This is the criterion: not to set a budget balance, but to determine the budget needed to do justice in a case where we believe that justice was justified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u12	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, your reply is perfectly clear that there will never be a fair contest or model while the words are lowercase. That is why the Prime Minister has not answered — and I hope that during the debate he will still be able to answer — why not a reinforcement of funds reaching the EUR 25 million. It is that if Mr Prime Minister makes the announcement of 19, 2 million euros is because he finds that there is room to go up and that the previous money was insufficient. But do you know what hurts more, Prime Minister? What hurts is we look around and realize that, for certain sectors, there is always money out there and for others there is never. For example, for the New Bank, we are about to inject public capital in the amount of EUR 780 million. Now, EUR 780 million, according to what Mr. Prime Minister is now looking at, is about 45 years of support for the arts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u14	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u15	Mr. Prime Minister, he noticed: with regard to the 2017 deficit, the government had a certain goal and the deficit was far below. Do you know what that meant, Prime Minister? A margin of EUR 1400 million that could have been invested in the lives of the Portuguese. You know, in particular, what does that mean? It means, more or less, about 80 years of support for the arts. It is this, Mr Prime Minister, that the Portuguese, and of course also the Greens, eventually fail to understand. Why this obsession with the deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u16	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u17	... why is this obsession with the banking sector and why is what gives concrete response to the creativity and dynamics of this country, because culture also creates jobs, is always supported in a tiny way? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u18	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u19	Even to finish, Mr President, what the Greens are calling for is that the government does not nationalize the pollution of the Tile caused by the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u20	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I ask you, please, to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u21	Celtejo has to pay for the pollution he has made, and the government is replacing Celtejo in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u22	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u23	This is the appeal the Greens make directly to the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u24	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but he may reserve the answer to these questions for the next time available. You now have the floor to put your questions, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u25	Mr President, allow me, on behalf of this bench, and taking advantage of the time available to us, which is very valuable, to extend a great friendship to Mr Luís Montenegro, thanking him for all the excellent work he has done here in this Parliament, wishing him the greatest personal, professional and political happiness. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, before coming to questions about culture — that was what I wanted to start by talking to you — I would like to congratulate all the cultural agents in Portugal because they hit their feet because they claimed because they criticized them because they demanded it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u26	And the Government, Prime Minister, was scared and increased the initial allocation it had for cultural agents. Congratulations to the cultural agents! [[PSD applause.]] In the full election campaign, Mr. Prime Minister had an interesting phrase on cultural issues. at a dinner, where he had a audience full of national artists, he even said: "More than a ministry of culture, we need a government of culture. Culture must be universally present in all dimensions of the life and activity of the government". He could no longer agree, Mr Prime Minister, but with that phrase he created a pact of trust with the cultural agents, which he broke, in the face of the challenge we have seen here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u27	Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, how does the word "given word, honest word" use a lot, and in this case you have spoken, I ask you: why did you not honor it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u29	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I thank you for your questions. He realizes that in the discussion with you and with Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, we start from different parameters. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u30	You have brought us back to the electoral campaign and to the amount then in force. And in that case, I repeat to you what I said recently: between 2013 and 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u31	It refers to your period!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u32	What we put in the competition this year, the EUR 64 million is higher than EUR 46 million than VV. Ex. They put in the contest four years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has been discussing was whether we should speed up the recovery of the gross cuts inflicted by the PSD Government and the CDS. [[PSD protests.]] What we're doing is we're doing this recovery. The big claim until this morning was that the money was corresponding to the 2009 appropriation. The 2009 appropriation was €18.5 million. Since this morning, the allocation has exceeded EUR 18 million, i.e. EUR 5 million. The 2009 threshold has been exceeded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When he said that an entire government is required to serve culture, he said well. That is why one of the first decisions taken by this government was to, instead of alienating a single collection that had arrived to the State for the bankruptcy of a bank, which was the Miró collection, decide that this collection was in the State and was handed over to the city of Porto to be exhibited in the Serralves Foundation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we decided that tourism money should not only be for the promotion of tourism, they should also be invested in the Revive Programme, to give new life to the cultural heritage abandoned in this country, because investing in cultural heritage is also investing in culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, we all may still like to significantly increase the budget of culture, but there is one thing I can assure you: we will have the pleasure of realising it. And I can say more: we already like to be realising right now and, therefore, we have increased funding for that which existed in the previous cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u33	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u34	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, adding to what you have just said, and that we have heard all the time, that austerity has ended, that there is more money and, once again, that culture should be transversal, what is the reason that we are witnessing the greatest challenge we have seen in the area of culture since 25 April 1974? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Fernando Negrão, very likely because we have explained badly,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u37	... probably because people misunderstood... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u38	But there is one thing that is certain: in terms of austerity, support for arts in 2015 was EUR 11, EUR 4 million and this year will be EUR 19, EUR 2 million, almost twice as much as 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u39	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u40	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you said you were surprised with all this controversy and Mr Secretary of State said that you were surprised with your surprise. [[PSD laughter.]] It is important to explain, Mr Prime Minister, which of the two has failed in the truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u41	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u42	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, let us focus on the essentials. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u43	And the essential is the following: VV. Are you in favour of or against the current model of financing for the arts? [[PSD protests.]] It is that when the diploma was in public discussion, no PSD opinion was recorded ; when the diploma was published, the PSD did not ask for its parliamentary assessment ; when the regulation was in public discussion, there was no PSD contribution. The PSD agreed to the culture on the day the culture protested by the competition results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u44	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u45	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the midst of this, we have heard you speak in Exa, we have heard Mr Secretary of State for Culture, but we have never heard Mr Minister for Culture. Physically, Mr. Prime Minister, he's close to you, but politically we don't know his whereabouts. We don't know what he's saying, what he's doing, what he's leading, we don't know about Mr. Minister of Culture's whereabouts. Mr President, do you not think it was time to have a real Minister of Culture in Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u46	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u47	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I expected you to ask me which of the 43 entities that came to support and which did not have it when the provisional lists were published last week. This was the relevant question, if you were concerned about culture and not about political tricks on the Minister of Culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I tell you more: this government has Minister of Culture, has culture policy and has cultural support. This is what this government has! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u48	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u49	Mr. Prime Minister, the central issue is not that. The central issue is that the government does not have a culture policy,... [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u50	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u51	... which gave rise to the greatest challenge in the area of culture witnessed in recent decades. This is the central issue, Prime Minister. Let's change the subject, let's go to the fires, [[It's better! It's better!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u52	Of course, it might be better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u53	...which are important. The report of the Independent Technical Commission on the October 2017 fires confirmed that the State, despite being notified, failed the Portuguese again four months later. It is very clear on this point. Which means that the government has learned little or nothing from this report. Now, on the verge of the return of hot weather—I speak of hot weather because in January, February, November or December there is no heat, nor fires—there is the existence of serious failures and enormous deficiencies in the preparation of the fire season, and I call it the time of the fires! Let us look at the issue of air resources. The government has failed again in the hiring of air resources for the fight against fires: of the 40 envisaged, only 12 are contracted. The National Civil Protection Authority has sealed the facilities where Kamov helicopters are and the government has not yet paid for the use of aircraft in last year's fires, 2017, amounting to EUR 1, 5 million. Mr Prime Minister of the Interior said that he had not been paid because the Court of Auditors had not been authorized. We know that the Court of Auditors has already made a lie, saying that this has been settled since March 27. First question, Prime Minister: when is the government going to hire all the planned air resources? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u54	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u55	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I strongly recommend that you study the doctrine which has been spent on your party on subsidies-dependence and support for culture before we speak again about culture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u56	in this research, perhaps, you will even find the real reasons why in some regions of the country there are more companies excluded by the jury than in other regions of the country. Maybe that investigation can come up with that reason. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I realize you're looking forward to getting to the topic of fires. We look forward to fulfilling our function, which is to prevent fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the high priority has been to make a huge effort to clean up the forest, to which the country has corresponded in a remarkable way, with authorities, companies, citizens, in order to reduce the risk of fire. All contests may have vicissitudes. What we are going to do is, by complying with the law, ensure the air resources that are needed to have greater intervention capacity than we had last summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u57	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u58	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I very much appreciate the recommendation for reading you just made to me, but let me tell you that, more important than that, it is Mr Prime Minister that you pay attention to the needs of culture and cultural agents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u59	Exactly! That's the one! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u60	... and, before giving in, answer and have a policy for culture. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister returning to the fires, because it is never too much to go back to the fires, I ask you: irrespective of the contractual issues — I know that there are contractual issues to be taken into account — can Mr. Prime Minister ensure that the three Kamov helicopters in repair are going to be operational? And when? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u61	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u62	Mr President, Mr Deputy, yesterday the Minister of Internal Administration was here in a debate on this matter. What the Government ensures is that the aviation device it has defined will be operational, when necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u63	Mr Fernando Negrão is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u64	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask one last question in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u65	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u66	The organic law of civil protection should be ready by now. Question, Prime Minister: when are you going to introduce her? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u67	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u68	Mr President, what we are looking forward to is that next month the organic law of the National Civil Protection Authority and the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests may be passed in the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u69	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u70	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I tell you that it is not for us to insist on the issue of fires, and it is not for us to go beyond prevention and we want there to be effective means of combating fires. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Internal Administration speak only in prevention. Mr. Prime Minister, prevention must be articulated with effective firefighting and I recommend to you the reading of numerous theses that exist on this subject. If Mr. Prime Minister doesn't articulate one thing with the other, we can have a problem at the time of the fires. Please read these thesis on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u71	And read the report, too! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u72	Mr. Prime Minister, it was known this week that the response time of INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) in the service of rescue calls in 2017 was 36 seconds above the average of 2016. We all know that this is serious, because for one second you can lose a life. The Institute evokes reasons for lack of human resources, as is normal, not only in this area as in many other State services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u74	We know that there is a study commissioned by the Minister of Health about a year ago. This study was requested in January 2017. We don't know you, Prime Minister. When will we have the opportunity to know this study about the needs of INEM? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u75	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u76	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, no one has any doubt that it is essential to look at prevention and that it is essential to look at combat. What is not possible is, when you look at the fight, to say that there is no need to look at prevention and, when you look at prevention, to say that there is no need to look at the fight. We are doing prevention because it is now that prevention is done and the greater the prevention is the need for combat. This is in all theses and all studies of all committees that this Assembly of the Republic has constituted, at least since 2003. But, as you know, we can talk about strengthening means, we have a strengthening of means. We will have more than 500 members of the Protection and Relief Intervention Group ( GIPS ) of the Republican National Guard ( GNR ) ; we will have over 100 guards from the Protection of Nature and Environment Service, the Republican National Guard ; we will have over 200 Florestal Guards ; we will have 79 new permanent intervention teams ( EIPs) in the volunteer firearms bodies ; we will have over 250 armed forces ; we will have more four air tools of initial combat; we will have more two air means of combat; we will have 450 satellite antennas to ensure the redundancy of the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency Networks and Security of Portugal ) ; we will have four more mobile antennas to ensure the redundancy of the SIRESP ; we will have more and more. And now we have already published both the Single Directive on Prevention and Combating and the diploma of the operating management system and, therefore, everything is taking place in time and time to be ready to face the threat when it presents itself. As regards the study of INEM, I will ask the Minister of Health to forward it with the greatest urgency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u77	Mr Fernando Negrão is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, for one second you earn or lose a life. I ask you again: why was it that in the service of INEM rescue calls in 2017, the waiting time was 36 seconds, the double of the average 2016? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u80	Mr. President, Mr. Member, as I just said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u81	So what? Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u82	...I have already asked Mr. Minister of Health to refer to you the study that was commissioned, to keep the information completely complete and safe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u83	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u84	Mr President, Prime Minister Gil Paiva Benido — I hope that this name will tell you something — it is a Portuguese military who in Mali was killed by a group of terrorists. Honors were paid, where Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Minister of National Defence, the President of the National Defence Commission of Parliament. After 9 months, the family — the woman and two minor children — has not yet received the blood pension due to her, Prime Minister. What is the point of the situation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u85	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Member, the process is proceeding in accordance with the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u87	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u88	...for allocation of pensions to wounded military on international missions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u89	He's dead!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u90	The pension is due to families of wounded or killed soldiers on international missions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u91	You have the floor, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u92	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Rome Pereira was a military who also died at the service of Portugal, whose family had been waiting for a blood pension for more than a year. I repeat, you've been waiting for another year for the blood pension! Which means that the first situation I spoke about is not unpublished. This is repeated, which means that the government, as far as the Portuguese are concerned, is constantly lacking. It seems that this situation is not important, but it has for its families, in addition to the fact that, in the symbolic sense, it is very important to know whether or not the State responds to the desires of the Portuguese and the rights of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u93	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u94	You didn't answer here, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u95	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u96	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negro, I can only share your words,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u97	Do you confirm that the government is missing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u98	... with a small difference: while fulfilling the compulsory military service and as the chief justice section of the headquarters, instructs many and many processes of injury or death in combat, of the war of the overseas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u99	Me too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u100	...and I remember well the complexity of those processes and the causes of their morbidity. As you say to me that you have also done so, you certainly know why these processes are delayed. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u101	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, talk about the employment results we know this week is about the good results of the Socialist Party's governance. To talk about employment is to speak of a distinctive brand of our view of society, in which we refuse to separate the growth of the economy from the fair remuneration of the effort of all, whether they are workers or employers. But it is, above all, to speak of an alternative policy which has come back. An alternative that has become an international example and that allows our Prime Minister today to speak in the European Parliament and be applauded by all the benches, including that of the PPE ( European People's Party ), because we did not only differ from what the right has done, when it was government in Portugal, but because since 2015 we did exactly the opposite of what PSD and CDS defended in this House. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what they say, the measure of our success is the scale of your social, labour and economic failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have memory: historical increase of minimum wage, voted against; replacement of holidays, were against; program of regularization of precariouss, were against; reinforcement of the ACT, were against; accountability of temporary workers, were against; law of transmission of the establishment, were against; law of combating harassment, were against; end of cuts in unemployment benefit, were against; new regime for independent workers, were against; end of pay reductions, were against. They were against, against, against! They went against all this and so much more! You have always been against, you have always been against, and so today you cannot claim the merits of what you have always fought against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you have done all this because you believe in your model, but I am glad that it is because the Portuguese know and win with the clarification of the alternatives. It is here, in the options of concrete policy, that is at the heart of what divides us, in particular in replacing, for example, the idea of the arc of governance with the idea of the arc of the Constitution. We do not confuse liberalisation with freedom, nor the market with democracy. For us, there is no true individual freedom without a social state to correct poverty and inequality. We do not think that structural reforms necessarily have to mean impoverishing, cutting rights. We don't think we can compete for low wages. We reject the ideas of the international institutions that call for more flexibility and more deregulation because we do not exchange European thinking for obedience to Europe. We really believe that a stable employment contract is a basic principle of democracy and decency. We do not see the protection of workers as an obstacle to the economy, rejecting the social shock with which they impoverished the Portuguese and, by that way, the Country. This has been our option, this has been our way and the results in employment are in sight, and they are so in view that Mrs Cristian Assumption would need several posters to bring them here this afternoon. The unemployment rate is 7, 8 %, fell more than 20 % in a year and is at least 14 years ago. We have the greatest job creation in the last 19 years and we are well above the European average. The employed population has been in the highest value since 2010. in one year the Portuguese economy won 161 000 net jobs, the largest increase of all official series that started in 1998. Since the beginning of the Legislature, we have fewer than 224 000 unemployed and more than 300 000 new employees. The number of unemployed youth fell 13 % in one year. Long-term unemployment fell by 30 %. Job creation has largely surpassed the reduction in unemployment, and this also confirms that we are bringing more discouraged to the labour market. We have more social peace, with fewer strikes and less warning of strikes. We are reducing precariousness in public administration with PREVPAP ( an extraordinary programme for regulating precarious links in public administration ), but also with the term contracts in the private sector that have grown more and in all years of our legislature. We have better wages, with a historical increase of 15 % of the minimum wage and an increase of the average wage of 2 % per year since 2015. There is an improvement of all, everyone, the indicators of combating poverty and reducing inequalities and there is an acceleration of collective bargaining, with a coverage that has increased 60 %, since we started our functions, exceeding today the 820 000 workers covered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not opinions, it is indeed facts. They are facts that describe the path of success in the recovery of employment, in the recovery of trust for which the only right contribution was against and a huge inability to understand that your formula did not fail because reality was wrong, because the Portuguese were unable, failed because your formula was even failed. The problem is not reality, it is never reality, but the ideas with which they have tried, and still want to try, to transform our country. Mr. Prime Minister, we are proud of this path, we are proud of its results, but we know that there is still much to do, because there is always a lot to do within the spirit, which encourages the Socialist Party, to value work, to strengthen wages and to combat precariousness. I would like to ask you, in this sense, if you think that this path of creating more employment, more and better employment, is a fundamental condition of a modern economy, developed for which our contribution, of the Socialist Party and, I would say, of all democratic forces, should be to reconcile economic growth with human dignity, always understanding the economy as an instrument and never as an end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u104	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, there is a number that clearly indicates the success of the economic policy of this Government and this majority: 288 000 new jobs created in net terms in these three years. This job creation has been characterized by a significant reduction in young unemployment, long-term unemployment and an increase in the number of unending contracts in the labour market in Portugal. This means that we are on the right track, but it also means that we need to pursue this path. There were two central problems that we identified in the labour market and that since the beginning of the legislature we defined as priority: first, the need to strengthen collective bargaining, social dialogue and social consultation in Portugal. Therefore, we have adopted measures aimed at extending and speeding up the extension portals and aimed at freezing the declaration of expiry of collective contracts in order to allow time for the parties to increase collective bargaining. Today we have almost 800 000 workers covered by collective bargaining than we had at the beginning of the legislature. But the most serious problem is segmentation and precariousness in the labour market. We set the example in the state, advancing with PREVPAP, but this is a fight that has to be done in all sectors of activity. That is why, as we are committed, we have presented in the social consultation, to bring this House of the Republic, a set of legislation which aims, firstly, to limit the time-limit and, from the outset, the maximum duration of these contracts, and, secondly, to limit the grounds for recourse to work in the future. For example, the fact that you are unemployed for a long time or, above all, that you are young in search of the first job will no longer be the basis for resorting to long-term work, because there is no reason for young people and precariousness to have to be a binomial one; on the contrary, that must be something to be combated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also want to strengthen the monitoring instruments, with the increase in the number of inspectors in the Working Conditions Authority, and the creation of a rate which leads to excessive turnover depending on the economic sector itself. We know that the economic sectors are not all the same, we know that there are sectors which, by nature, like tourism or agriculture, have a higher rate of turnover than others, but companies which abuse their sector's own turnover should pay a higher rate, because they themselves constitute a burden on social security, and this burden must be paid and borne by these companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is something that is absolutely essential and which he said at the end of his speech: combating precariousness is obviously a fundamental condition of the dignity of the human person and of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u106	But this fight is also essential for us to have a model of development based on innovation. This is because, if we want a more competitive economy, we need more productive companies; in order to have more productive companies, we need to have a greater capacity to innovate and, to that end, we need more skilled labour. However, there is no investment in qualification or innovation based on precariousness. Therefore, stabilisation of the working relationship is essential for us to be able to have companies where there is more decent work and where there is also a more productive activity and hence it results in a more competitive economy. This is the development model, this is the social model we want. That is why we beat and assume that that is why the Left Block supports this solution and this governmental majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u107	Here we go!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u108	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs. Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u109	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I begin by complimenting you, as well as all those present. Mr. Prime Minister, we think it is time to put an end to the report that it was the destructive wonders of the previous government that the workers evident from the successes of the current socialist government, a success with which, in fact, they live very badly. I wonder how it is possible for the PSD and the CDS, which have swept the country, to find that they contribute in a definitive way to the success of the current government. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] There is also another issue, we have the virtual and so-called labour reform. The Labour Code has 566 articles and the former Government has made eight amendments, one of which is not even about work. But it was important to see what they did. It was the cut-off of holidays; it was the 40-hour tax; it was the cut-off of wages and pensions, penalizing the weakest; it was the creation of the odious regime of requalification in the Public Administration ; it was the empolated deficit and the growing debt; it was the push of almost half a million Portuguese abroad; it was the failure of more than 30 companies per day; it was the crushing of collective bargaining; it was the application of the individual hour bank, to the shirk of collective bargaining. For those who boast about the merits of social dialogue and dialogue, I think we are talking about. This government, yes, is returning dignity to workers and one very important thing: predictability to the Portuguese daily. More: it is developing a battle without hardship for a decent job. It is not just PREVPAP, as Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned. We all know that precariousness is closely linked to the violation of labour rights, and that is why the 27 measures, which have already been presented by the Government to social consultation, have three objectives: to combat precariousness and reduce segmentation of the labour market, to promote greater dynamism of collective bargaining and to strengthen public means and instruments for regulating labour relations. It is therefore in this context, Mr Prime Minister, that I would like to ask you a question. We think, and indeed, Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned it as an important measure, that it is necessary to demystify that the additional contribution for companies with excess turnover is neither a legalisation of precariousness nor an attack on compensating companies. I ask you, therefore, whether this is an effective way of reducing the precariousness of workers while increasing the productivity of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u111	Mr President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, the history of this legislation is certainly the history of the confrontation with the development model, which the right would impose on this country, based on low wages, the destruction of rights and the precariousness of social life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The history of this legislation is the history of this confrontation and the victory of an alternative development model that has shown that it is possible to increase the minimum wage, to be able to restore salaries in the public service, to be able to restore pensions due to payment, to be possible to reduce the tax burden, to be possible to reduce taxation on work, to be possible to rest at 35 hours, to be able to restore holidays that had been eliminated, to be possible to be boosted social dialogue, social dialogue and collective bargaining, however, there is economic growth, increase in investment, increase in exports and, above all, increase in employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all remember that, after the first increase in the national minimum wage, the PSD bench asked how many thousands of jobs would cost that increase. Now, what we know is that the national minimum wage rose in 2016, rose in 2017, rose in 2018 and will rise again in 2019 and that we have more 288 000 jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the history of this legislature has shown is that, in the confrontation with the right development model, the right was defeated and what won was a very clear idea and today, transversal to the Portuguese society as a whole, which is the idea that our development model has to rely on innovation. Therefore, investment in culture, science and education, vocational training and lifelong learning is absolutely capital. Investment in the transfer of knowledge from the university to production centres is absolutely essential. Technological innovation and the modernisation of management are absolutely essential for improving productivity and it is in this path that we can achieve that the country sustainably has a path of convergence with the European Union, as for the first time in this century, last year, when, against winds and tides, it was possible to demonstrate the possibility of having healthier public finances, greater investment in the quality of public services, greater investment reinforcement and truly sustained economic growth and employment. This is the path we have and we must continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u112	It is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think there is no one to remember when Rui Rio arrived at the President of the House and, on culture, decided to paraphrase Goebbels and say: "When I hear about culture bag after the machine to calculate". So, in this debate on the right, nothing is expected. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Prime Minister, there had been a 40% increase in the State budget culture and we would not have this challenge. The challenge to cultural policy is strong because the government has been wrong. The budget for culture is insufficient and has joined in the same competition what was in several. The budget is worse distributed because it maintains the territorial asymmetries that already existed and transfers funds to the municipalities that were then to the independent structures. And the model of the competition is wrong because it does not consider the continuity of the work of the structures, because the decision reaches mid-year and does not respect who should support it. The activity of the sector is being exemplary: solidarity, dignity, determination. And what do they demand? It requires that the replacement of amounts already be guaranteed so that the operation of structures throughout the country that give access to theatre, dance, music, visual arts and all the arts is not at stake, that the financing model be changed to respect those who work and that give the place due to the culture in the State Budget for 2019. And they are absolutely right, because there is no reason why the budget for the culture set out in the State budget is almost equal to zero. in the budget of the State for this year, the financing to all, all, the arts represents less than half that the government grants in only one article on tax benefits to large companies such as Pingo Doce.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u115	This is impossible to explain to the country! As actor Nuno Lopes said: « A country without culture is not a country is a poorly occupied space». It is not enough to be proud of the prizes won by our artists, it is necessary to respect their work and to guarantee the money already and to have a clear commitment already to the State Budget for 2019. Are you going to do it, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u117	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, from the first day of this legislature that we have together made a huge effort to rebuild the country, which was destroyed for four years on the right: the effort to restore income, to invest in health, to invest in education and also to invest in culture. Between 2016 and 2018, investment in culture overall increased by 11 % in all public administrations, with 8 % in the authorities and 14 % in the state. That is, in these three years, we have increased 14 % of the investment in culture. What we both know, and what we all know, is that we have to continue this increase path. The increase this year focused on two key areas: heritage and cultural creation. That is why the budget approved by the Assembly of the Republic has resulted in a 41% increase in financing for artistic creation. The tender which was opened for this four-year period was EUR 64 million; in the previous four-year period it was EUR 46 million. The difference is 41 %. What we can discuss is whether the new model is correct or wrong, whether it should have adjustments or not. But this new model did not fall from heaven by work and grace of the Holy Spirit; it was worked, for many months, between the Ministry of Culture and cultural agents. Decree-Law was published, no one raised any questions about the model; the Regulation was published and no one raised any doubts. When the Regulation was applied and the tenders were opened it was found that there were entities that had supported and had now lost it, that the jury had classified this or that entity. And there we have to separate two situations: one, the situation in which the jury understood, wrong or well, that a certain entity is not deserving of support. I am not going to discuss whether it is right or wrong, because we would hardly go to the day when it became the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, the Secretary of State for Culture or the Director-General to decide who deserves support and who does not deserve it. Support for culture must be decided in a transparent way by plera jury that can decide and that this decision is respected. However, there is another different situation, which is whether the money could be greater. Mrs. Member, the money can always be greater, in health, in science, in safety, in education, in culture. Words can always be bigger,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u118	They really can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u119	... the question is to know—and that is the exercise that we do annually when we discuss the State budget—what is the adequacy and good composition of the expenditure in relation to the resources available. Now, this option has been made and that is the option we are fulfilling. We found, it is true, that there was a situation in which a number of entities previously supported — either in the theatre contest or in the competition for music, or in the disciplinary crossings, and only — who now lost it. As a new model, and like everything new, it must be evaluated and potentially corrected, it would be violent to compromise the continuity of support to these entities which the jury considered to be worthy of it and, therefore, we decided to extend the allocation. Since some of these entities had others before them who had no support but to which the jury now gave better classification, it would be unfair for those who were behind, only because they were old, to exceed the new ones, only because they were new. So we have extended support to these entities too. So on the list that you know about the list that will be released today there is an increase of 43 new entities throughout the country, who were not being supported and who will be back. Ask me if this answers everything? No, it doesn't answer everything, because there are two situations that don't answer. First of all, those entities that gave the jury, or wrong or wrong, decided that they were not deserving of support. If the honourable Member is empowered to replace the jury and decides that a theatre company that the jury has decided that it does not deserve support, she will make her judgment. I think it is dangerous and I do not like a democracy in which the political power replaces the juries, plural and independent, in the decision on whom it should be supported. Secondly, it is obviously not covered by those other entities which, although eligible, are beyond the allocated funds. But I ask you, Madam Member: what was the activity sector where we strengthened the budget by almost 70%? What was it? And all the other sectors also lack an increase! If we begin to see the need — and we wait for your next questions — we will surely only find other sectors of activity where budgetary reinforcement is needed. That is why we need to continue with our policy, so that the economy continues to grow, employment continues to grow, and the Budget continues to be balanced, so that debt will increasingly decrease and we can invest, increasingly and better, in the quality of public services and in the quality of public goods that needs to be supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u120	To continue, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u121	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a misunderstanding about the scope of the competitions and is comparing what cannot be compared because it has been changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u122	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u123	But the suggestion I make to you is that you listen to the sector, which you have already asked to be received by Mr. Prime Minister. We have a budget to prepare, to work and surely to hear who knows the sector would be important for this debate. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the regularization of barriers in universities. I heard him talk about the need for a non precarious, innovative and qualified economy, but, as you know, in public universities the known numbers show a boycott of the principals to regularize the situation of researchers and teachers. The University of Évora, where the process is completed, was linked to zero. of the country's general numbers, only 20 % of researchers and 4 % of precarious teachers are being integrated. And they are falling with the votes of the representatives of the government, who join the rectors. The question I have to ask you is the following: when the evaluation committees have to review the proceedings, now at the pre-hearing stage, will the representatives of the Government continue to be the shadow of the directors and to collaborate in this illegal boycott of PREVPAP(An extraordinary programme for the regularization of the precarious links in the Public Administration )? Will the government maintain the precariousness of teachers and researchers in higher education or will they correct the error and comply with the law? As I know you have little time to answer, together with one more question about the work area, I will certainly have others about other areas:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u124	And none of it's about spending, look at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u125	Not a penny!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u126	... Ryanair is violating, provocatively, Portuguese laws that protect workers in parenthood, family life, health and now also in the right to strike. This company is summoning workers from other places to come to Portugal and, contrary to the law, to replace their colleagues in struggle. Yesterday, when the work inspection visited Ryanair’s facilities, it had to call the police to get in. Mr. Prime Minister, the State cannot relate to multinationals just to assign stimuli and benefits. We're a tourist destination, but we're not a banana republic. The question I ask you is: what measures is the Government willing to take on behalf of the workers' legal rights in Ryanair? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u128	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you very much for leaving me some room for your next questions. As for Ryanair, we are launching all the actions and we will do so in order to impose scrupulously compliance with the law. As far as universities are concerned, of course we respect university autonomy, but we also respect the law. Therefore, in all cases where the law imposes the contract, of course that will be the way in which the representative of the State will act. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u129	Not always! I wish I had!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u130	You may proceed, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, if that happens, that means that the government will substantially change its position at PREVPAP in universities and it will be very important for it to do so. It is vital that you do so, in the name of what you said, namely, the dignity of work and also in favour of an innovative and qualified economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u132	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u134	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you on another subject, which is quite serious and which requires a quick response. As you know, PSD and CDS privatized fidelity, the lucrative insurer of the General Deposit Box, and sold it to a Chinese stock fund, Fosun, who bought loyalty and then recovered the money spent on the purchase by indebted the company, and still guaranteed an exclusive contract with the General Deposit Box to sell insurance at prices that are damaging the public bank. Therefore, the operation was ruinous, both for the General Deposit Box and for the State. We now know that privatized loyalty is preparing the greatest collective eviction ever seen in Portugal. The insurance company has announced that it will sell 277 buildings, half in the Lisbon and Loures areas and over 30 in Porto. He says the company president wants to take advantage of the fact that Lisbon is in fashion. Only three of these towers, in Loures, have 158 families and several of them have been notified to leave. It is estimated that 1500 houses are concerned in Lisbon. Mr. Prime Minister, we are talking about thousands of families at risk of eviction. This is a problem that has a national dimension, an unprecedented threat to the right to housing, and my question is whether the government has measures to ensure the protection of these thousands of families at real risk of losing their homes. And as I know you have little time to answer, I take advantage of leaving the last question you had, to conclude. We discussed, exactly a year ago, the sale of the New Bank and the Prime Minister then guaranteed that the sale would not bring a public guarantee. We know that we have divergences about the solution that was found and we know how the right has already buried 3900 million euros in BES / New Bank. Mr Prime Minister, a new account of EUR 798 million is now announced and people have the right to know. A year ago, he said there would be no more public money for the New Bank, and there was. What now? How much longer are you going to be in charge of this country's taxpayers for the New Bank? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, this is not a question, until 15 days ago he noticed, and well, I always talk to him about the right of long careers contributing to early retirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u135	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. Would you like to conclude, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u136	With this, I will finish, Mr. President. Today, I did not talk about this, but I wanted to leave the note that we do not give up seeing the government do what you promised last January. And that's the proposal that the Left Block will bring to plenary next week. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u137	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u138	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is good not to give up, because we do not give up either. So we're going to do what we've done. With regard to fidelity, we are following up on the problem. As you know, one of the central issues of the New Urban Rent Scheme was that it led to the precariousness of the world of work to the precariousness of the right to housing. This is one of the heavy inheritances we received from the previous majority. Therefore, a new generation of housing policies is needed, which ensures affordable housing. This set of measures will be presented during April, in honour of 25 April and Article 65. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines the right to housing as a first right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u139	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u140	Secondly, with regard to the New Bank, I said last year that we would not only inject money into the New Bank's capital as we would not guarantee the New Bank. And we don't give it at that time, and we don't give it now. The commitment we have made, and we have fulfilled, was to lend to the Resolution Fund the funds that the Resolution Fund will have to inject, which will recover from banks and pay to the State. And therefore the State will recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u141	50 years from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u142	The alternative solution some people defended...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u143	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u144	I will finish now, Mr President. In contrast to this loan solution, the solution of nationalisation, which has been highly defended by some people, would have effectively involved injecting between EUR 4 and EUR 4, EUR 7 billion into the bank and we will probably have to anticipate for that moment all losses, including the more than EUR 1700 million of losses now recorded. This would have been the cost of nationalization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u145	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP is followed. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, in presenting the State Budget for 2017, the reduction of the tax burden was presented as a great flag of your Government from the sides. It has now been found that in 2017 the tax burden has increased — see! — and has stood at the highest value of the last 22 years. Mr Prime Minister, this shows — the data are public — that your government has not turned the page of austerity. I would like to know what you have to make this failure out of its objectives in this matter. Do you realize this time that the CDS was right when, in this debate, you said, well, that your government would hand in hand what it would then take with both of you? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u147	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u148	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, the Minister for Finance has already had the opportunity to explain in detail, within the parliamentary committee, that the increase in tax revenue is mainly explained by a great growth in the economy and, above all, by a great increase in employment. It is explained in this way and not by the fact that we take more of a hand than we do with another hand. But as I know that you like graphics, I will remind you of a graph that has not shown you for the past two years: in 2016, the return of income to citizens totaled EUR 1328 million and, on the other hand, the increase in revenue collection was EUR 655 million, which means a clearly positive balance for citizens. last year, it was slightly different, because the return of income to citizens was only EUR 680 million and what was taxed more to the citizens was EUR 310 million. However, the balance was favourable to citizens in more than 370 million euros. This year, taxation increases by EUR 150 million and the return of income to citizens increases by EUR 982 million. So the honourable Member is right: we have two hands, one hand and one hand. The advantage we have is that the one who gives, gives much more than the one who takes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u149	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u150	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will make three citations, only three, of your Minister of Finance, in the discussion of the State budget for 2017 : « There is no increase in taxes, there is a drop in tax burden » ; « All this can be reduced by reducing the tax burden » ; « What is a maintenance of tax burden reduction policy ». The Minister for Economic Affairs also said: « There is a reduction in the tax burden ». The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos, said : « The tax burden will be reduced». And Prime Minister, on 4 November 2016, said : « The tax burden is reduced by the second consecutive year ». You mean to tell me that INE isn't right? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u151	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how much has this government increased the rate of IRS? How much has this government increased the rate of IRC? How much has this government increased the VAT rate? As I know, this government has eliminated the overtax of the IRS, reduced the VAT rate of the restaurant and reduced the tax on income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have increased the steps of the IRS, improving progressiveity, and that is why today, citizens pay less IRS, less taxes on their work income and their personal income than they had previously. The honourable Member will be able to do whatever he wants. Now, there is one thing of which no one has doubts, in Portugal : today, the income available from families is greater than that which was when you were the Minister. And if there is anything that no one wants to do is go back to the time when you were Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u153	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u154	Mr President, Prime Minister, your biggest problem is that, when wrong, you cannot admit the mistake. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u155	Mr Prime Minister has one of two options: one of them is to say 'the INE is wrong, has to be dismissed or someone has to put in order'; the other is to say that the INE has said the truth, but then it has to review what he said and has to say that he has been wrong. You, your ministers and your state secretaries have been deceived because that is what happened. And excuse me for wanting to fool people, because when I said, at that time, that you would give with one hand what you were taking with the other, I also explained how that happened. And Mr. Prime Minister is not able to get there because he doesn't want to, because he has intellectual dishonesty. [[PS protests.]] You know why, Prime Minister? Because what happens is that Mr. Prime Minister has changed the subject of IRS but forgets to tell that VAT revenue has increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u156	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u157	... as it is forgotten that the tax on petrol and gasoline has increased and lied to Portuguese about fiscal neutrality. And today, if you look at the tax burden, you'll find that it rises, yes. It rises in absolute values, rises as a percentage of GDP and rises by indirect taxes, and this is a rather covert and cowardly way of raising taxes, which, in addition to most, affects everyone in the same way. [[PS protests.]] In fact, it does not affect in a different way who has a more generous portfolio, it affects everyone in the same way. Therefore, Prime Minister, you can say what you want on this subject, but the data are objective and undisputed. You have failed this objective, made it through indirect taxes, and what is very clear to all Portuguese today is that there is a hidden, hooded austerity in the indirect taxes that you have raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u159	Mr President, I haven't finished yet, I haven't asked a question, but I'm moving on to the next one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u160	I'm sorry, I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u161	No, but I also have no hope of getting an honest answer from Mr. Prime Minister. In fact, the question was whether Mr. Prime Minister would recognize the truth and how that would promote the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. however, in the face of all that Mr Prime Minister has said, I have no expectations of the answer. I shall then move on to another issue, which also has to do with the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and to which I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to give a clearer and more honest answer. In December 2017, in the presentation of the IGCP, our entity that manages public debt before international investors can read ( making a free translation ), about structural reforms on page 49, as title the following: Hire and fire is now easier and less expensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u162	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u163	The labour situation is presented externally as an advantage for the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. My question, Prime Minister, is whether you look into the view of this document, whether you are going to have the document corrected, whether you are going to maintain the work reform that is bearing fruit. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u164	Now, yes, you have the word, to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u165	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, we have noticed that, in these debates, whenever the reason is missing, the vocabulary will be used to insult it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Deputy, you confuse things. Is there an increase in tax revenue? There is indeed an increase in tax revenue. Why is there such an increase in tax revenue? Why do we raise taxes on the work of the Portuguese? Why do we increase the tax on Portuguese companies? Why do we increase VAT on Portuguese products? No, we didn't do anything like that! If you also take account of the increase in revenue without contributions to social security, you will find that the tax burden has steadily decreased from 2015 to now. The difference in the increase in revenue is mainly explained by something positive called 'employment'. When someone who is unemployed becomes employed, he contributes to social security. Yes, it increases taxation for the state! But it increases taxation for the state because that person has won a job and today has a job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like you to introduce me one day to someone who would prefer to be unemployed and contribute to social security and the formation of their reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know there was an old right, but it certainly is no longer yours, which thought that a large part of the population were people who did not want to work and who preferred to be unemployed rather than working and contributing to social security. For that is not my view of society. I know that work is an essential element of the dignity of the human person and there is no one who has no will and desire to carry out himself, personally and professionally, with a job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mrs Deputy, we are no longer taxing Portuguese. The Portuguese today gain more and, because they gain more, contribute more to social security. They are less unemployed and more employed and therefore contribute more to social security. That is why the revenue has increased and that is why, fortunately, the revenue will continue to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as labour reform is concerned, it is known from the Government's programme what we want to do, and now this is already presented in the social consultation: to stimulate collective bargaining, in particular by ending with the individual hour bank and forcing the bank to regulate hours in collective bargaining and, on the other hand, the fight against precariousness, with the set of measures that I have already indicated in the response I gave to the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u166	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u167	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to numbers, I recommend that you review the INE numbers (National Institute of Statistics ) where it is said that the tax burden increases, even without considering contributions to social security. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u168	Even without considering them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u169	I regret that Mr. Prime Minister, when he doesn't know or when he wants to divert the subject, come and make general theory and want to do a concert in this House,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... because the fact is that the tax burden has increased — the data are objective, they are very clear — increased as it has never happened in the last 22 years and the Prime Minister knows that this happens through its indirect taxes and the increase in its indirect taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u170	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u171	Unfortunately, the contribution of employment is not sufficiently competitive enough to keep it above GDP growth itself. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] With regard to labour reform, I regret that the Prime Minister misses the opportunity to maintain a reform which, indeed, is reducing unemployment and which, indeed, is contributing to job creation. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and PCP Member João Oliveira.]] You cannot be commended for these results when, in fact, they were based on a work reform done earlier and you will unfortunately now want to change for the benefit of your left-wing partners. Mr. Prime Minister, we already know that austerity is hidden. It is hidden in indirect taxes, it is hidden in the degradation of public services — now tell the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt ) to revoke the document I spoke about recently — and it is also hidden in the field of culture. With regard to culture, much has already been said here today, and tomorrow we will certainly have the opportunity to deepen this issue in the current debate, but I would just like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you are convinced that it is with the announcement to account for some more money—we started with 1, 5, plus 0, 5, plus 0, 2 million euros—which will solve these questions or if I hear today that the competition has to be respected. I could not understand whether, after all, the competition had to be respected because it was good or if it had to be corrected because it gave bad results! With all honesty, I don't understand. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u172	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u173	Mr President, Madam Member, what we are going to change in labour law is what we announced in the Government Programme, what we have come to achieve and what we are going to achieve. Madam Member, it is perhaps time for the right to cease to have illusions about the magical power of the law. This work law has created as many jobs as its lease legislation has created accessible housing for Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Cristas displayed the document of the IGCP that he mentioned recently.]] As President of the Chamber, I would have gone with Mrs. Helena Roseta to her office to explain to her everything that would happen in a city like Lisbon with her lease law, as this would have a direct effect on the increase of real estate speculation, as this would have removed thousands and thousands of families from access to accessible housing and Mrs. Deputy, then she had the illusion that with the new lease law would thus increase the offer that this magical market would create accessible housing for all and all Portuguese. What we found was that, unfortunately, we were right and that its legislation did not create any accessible housing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u174	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u175	Labour law has created as many jobs as its lease law has created accessible housing for Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u176	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u177	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, last week we learned that in 2017 the government had a better budgetary position than it had anticipated and that instead of using it to solve urgent problems in the country, it used it to reduce the level of deficit, even more than it had already decided to reduce. Instead of solving the serious problems that continue to exist in public services, in the lack of professionals and health facilities, in education, in justice, in forces and security services, instead of making public investment, which is necessary to recover ships, trains, operating rooms, facilities in schools or universities, the government has decided to take even further the obsession with reducing the deficit and situations in support of the arts and the New Bank have confirmed that there is still a lack of money for a lot of things, but for the bank it is never missing! [[PCP applause.]] Let us first address the question of support for the arts. It has already been said a lot, but for us, for the CFP, the situation which is being created requires measures in three different areas: first, budgetary strengthening is necessary; secondly, it is necessary to review the decisions of this competition to support the arts in order to prevent the damage that is announced; thirdly, a fundamental review of the model of support for the arts needs to be carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u179	The budgetary reinforcement that the Government has announced is the recognition of the mistakes made, but it is not enough to solve the problem that is being created. The basis on which it must start to avoid the destruction of artistic structures and their work must be the budget base of EUR 25 million and the CFP has already put forward a proposal in this regard. Secondly, the decisions taken in this competition must be reviewed, either in the eligibility of applications or in the values of the support granted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u181	The decisions of the jury and the procedure of this invitation to tender must be reviewed. I give you an example, Prime Minister : a theatre company in Porto, seeking to resolve the precarious links of two workers, was excluded from support because of this. This is the concrete example that this is not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u183	Finally, a substantive review of the model of support for the arts must be carried out in the light of the views and contributions of the sector. It is necessary to create a new model of support for the arts that involves artistic and cultural work as a development factor of the country, assigning to the culture the role and place that the Constitution of the Republic reserves to it. In our view, there are conditions to move forward, including in the definition of the new model. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u184	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u185	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, if you don't mind, I will start with the end. The new model, which has now been applied, has been in preparation for almost two years. When there was public discussion, when there was the publication of Decree-Law, when the regulation was in public hearing, why did not those who found this bad model at the time present the criticisms and did not propose alternatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u186	But he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u187	These alternatives were not presented and this contest was opened on the basis of the new model.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u188	Alternatives have been presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u189	at this moment, like everything new, deserves to be evaluated. It has been tested, it deserves to be evaluated! If we simply cancelled this contest, that would mean a brutal delay in supporting the companies... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and, in addition, it would be illegal and would directly harm not only the 140 entities, which, as soon as on the first list, benefited from support, such as the new 43, which, with this extension of the budget coverage, also benefited. He gave me an example of the wrong application of the regulation. with regard to the theatre competition, it is still going through the hearing period of the interested parties, i.e. the list is not definitive and, therefore, this company can not only how, I would say, it should complain and see its position altered by the jury, because that is what serves the previous hearing period and that is what is going on. Now, the bottom line is that at the moment we need to stabilize the situation, because we are already at a very early stage of the year and we can no longer postpone the continuation of payment to companies and other entities. It is necessary to ensure this stability and then we will be able to evaluate this model. We will be the first to accept changing the model if you prove that there is another better one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u190	Other models have been presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u191	The debate could have been held at its own time. It's not, it's over! Let's do it now, all right! Let's stabilize this because otherwise the entire cultural sector will be paralyzed. I did not want to add that we did not have the budgetary result of last year at any cost! We had the budgetary result last year despite the 25 % increase in investment, the 5 % increase in total health expenditure, the introduction of 35 hours, the end of the surcharge, the full refund of salary, the full payment of pensions, the payment of up to an extraordinary pension supplement in August — indeed, on a proposal from the CFP. It was despite all this effort that we had that budget result. We have not gone to cut to have that budget result! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have had that budgetary result despite this investment and expenditure effort we have had. Obviously, we must seek a balanced solution and that is what we have been trying to do. Now, that budgetary result is mainly due to the growth of the economy and the growth of the economy due to the policy change we have introduced together two years ago, which has returned confidence and will of investment to the Portuguese and which has resulted in the growth of the economy and the creation of jobs. This has sustained this budgetary trajectory, a healthy path that is not made at the cost of cuts or increases in taxes, but is made of good budgetary management, good economic management and recovering the cuts and increases that had been imposed by the majority of the right. That is the way we should go together, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u192	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u193	Mr President, Prime Minister, one thing is to be heard, another thing is to take into account what has been said... [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u195	... and, during the public consultation, the interested parties took a decision. Publish the result of this debate and this contribution! Mr. Prime Minister, an issue that has already emerged here was that of the difficulties that are created in supporting the arts contrast with the availability that continues to exist for the bank. The problems of the New Bank have long been identified. The Holy Spirit Group was left free to gain power and distribute fortune. All this is known and all this makes clear, of course, the responsibilities of successive governments, with particular weight to the previous government, PSD / CDS, but there are also responsibilities of the current government. The government has made the wrong choice to sell the New Bank and now, above all, continues to inject public money into it. The CFP had already warned about this and proposed an alternative: the New Bank should have been kept in the public sphere. The government made the opposite option: it sold the bank under the conditions that are known and will now inject 800 million euros into it because someone got credit that did not pay. « Loan», he said! Indeed, he made his statements and stated that « staying the bank in the public sphere would be more expensive ». Only he omitted a portion of this account, because, if that had happened, the bank was Portuguese, it was ours and not foreign, as it happened. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] So I ask you, Prime Minister : who will benefit from that public money injection? What inequalities have been recorded? What debtors will benefit from them and what credits do they cover? How can the government justify the fact that there is now EUR 800 million to inject into the New Bank but there is no money to move forward in the replacement of income and rights? Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, we greatly appreciate those advances you mentioned—we appreciate! — but this does not mean that the government is free from criticism, taking into account the wrong options as in the case of the bank I mentioned here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u196	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u197	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in this model of sale the State has limited its obligations to the possibility of borrowing the Resolution Fund up to a maximum of EUR 3800 million. These EUR 700 million that are now being lent are a component of what is in the contract and therefore are not new. It is not a money injected by the State, it is a money lent by the State to the Resolution Fund and that the State will recover, as banks are paying their instalments to the Resolution Fund. It will take 30 years, but over 30 years, we will recover that amount. [[Rice from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] The alternative of nationalisation had two conditions: first, it immediately implied that the State had, yes, injected into the Bank — not borrowed, but injected into the Bank — between EUR 4000 million and EUR 4700 million. He said: "But the Bank would be ours. And I say: "In that case, the injury that has now been recorded would also be ours...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u198	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u199	... and instead of lending 700 million, we were now paying 1700 million euros, which were the inequalities recorded this year. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from PS Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] So we would have a bank—yes! — but, above all, we would be subject to a loss of EUR 1700 million. What we have achieved with the sale of the Bank was that this damage is from the Bank and its shareholders, that there is support through the Resolution Fund, on the basis of a State loan, but for which the State will recover. [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] The alternative would be to have paid between 4000 and 4700 million, with which we would now be paying more EUR 1700 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u200	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u201	...and we don't know how much we're going to pay for the year and the other year and the other year. So, we know what the maximum amount is...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u202	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u203	...of the loan, and here we will all be, too, fortunately, to be able to recover that loan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u204	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u205	Mr President, Prime Minister, hoping that we will have a long life, I have the impression that we will not see that payment one day be realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u207	I wish I was wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u208	One more reason for us to stay here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u209	Yes, but there is much doubt about this early payment. In any case, I leave one last question, which has to do with the special payment on account ( PEC ). The Government submitted a proposal that gave rise to Law No 10 -A / 2017, adopted a transitional reduction measure of the CFP to be in force in 2017 and 2018 and established the procedures for replacing the CFP in 2019 by a simplified tax regime, with the determination of the taxable material of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) through technical-economic coefficients by sector and branch of activity. It was necessary to create a committee, which I do not know if it is created, but the great problem is that, in view of this prolonged struggle, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and their associations have not yet had the tranquillity to check whether we have the proposed extinction law in this House for the short time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u211	The Government will certainly not deny that neither the 2017 Budget nor the Law which counted on the vote in favour of the PS Parliamentary Group. Finally, Mr President, with your tolerance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u212	But I ask you to conclude, even with tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u213	...there's another commitment that doesn't get me out of my head and we're worried. We are in April and there was a commitment to start at the beginning of the year the second stage to solve the issue of early reforms for long-term tax careers without penalty. Mr. Prime Minister, January is far away. Tell us a date to achieve this objective. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u214	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to respond to the CFP. The NAP is followed, and Mr André Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u215	Mr President, Prime Minister, an environmental impact study is currently being prepared to determine the short-term impact of the construction of Montijo airport. However, in view of existing legislation, the construction of airports with take-off and landing runways with at least 2100 m in length is subject to a strategic environmental assessment, which is quite different from the environmental impact study and which serves to analyse long-term impacts and to determine whether or not a given area is suitable for receiving a structure of this size. Now, Prime Minister, this is the case of this airport, which will remain for a long time, so we do not have to look at the immediate consequences of its construction and operation. Its long-term consequences should also be strategically assessed. Despite all this, there are no signs of government or any intention to conduct a strategic environmental assessment to study the negative impacts that will affect the region's access and transport, increase noise, reduce air quality in residential areas, reduce biodiversity or severely disturb migratory and protected birds present in the Natural Reserve of the Tejo Estuary. Mr. Prime Minister, the choice of the place to build any airport in Portugal must take into account its long-term social and environmental impacts and we believe that this is not being guarded. So I ask you two questions: will the government or will not make a strategic environmental assessment that takes into account all the long-term impacts? If the assessment is not positive, is the government available to reconsider the location of the airport or the choice already made and therefore consider it indispensable to assess the consequences of this construction in the lives of people and ecosystems?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u216	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u217	Mr President, Mr André Silva, as you know, for various reasons of internal policy, the country has compromised the decision in its own time on the need for a new airport in the region of Lisbon. This need for a new international airport is now manifest, and many of those who have been here a few years ago said that this was precipitated today point out that we are too late. In fact, today we are already not having some positions due to the exhausting of the airport's capacity. There is a strategy to increase the investment that allows to exhaust the current Portela airport to the limit of security and studies have been initiated for the installation of a new airport, according to the model provided for the privatisation of ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), which provides for its installation at the Montijo air base. Obviously, a work such as the airport must be developed with all the necessary precautions and measures to mitigate its negative, direct and indirect effects, local, regional and national, and its environmental impact. Your question can only be answered according to needs: if the law requires strategic environmental assessment, we will have to do it; otherwise, we will not necessarily do it. Therefore, it depends on the circumstances, data and preliminary studies that are being carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-05.u218	Mrs. We have reached the end of our agenda, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our five-year debate with the Prime Minister. I would like to say goodbye to all the members of the Government, including Prime Minister, who will now leave. Tomorrow, Friday, the plenary session will start at 10 a.m. the first point is the current debate under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on problems in the area of culture, by marking the CDS-PP. in the second point will be discussed, in general, the proposed law No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a more favourable tax and contribution scheme for maritime transport and a special collection of material based on tonnage of vessels. The third point follows the general debate of Bill No 112 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the mission and tasks of the National Crime Victim Support Commission. of the fourth point is the discussion of draft resolution No 1323 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the end of outsourcing in the provision of health care and psychological monitoring in prisons and guarantee of access to the health of prisoners ( BE), together with, in general, draft law No 814 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the existence of self-services for the provision of medical, nursing and psychology care in prisons ( fifth amendment to Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009 approving the Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Privativative Measures of Freedom) ( PCP ) and with draft resolution No 1462/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the contractual and wage stability of psychologists working in prison establishments ( NAPs ). The evaluation of Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018 of 7 March, which approves the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic teaching of music and dance[ parliamentary assessments 58 / XIII ( 3 ) is followed. ( a ) ( PCP ), 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( BE ), 57 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) and 56 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ]. of the sixth point is the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services ( The Greens ), 815 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( tenth amendment to the Electronic Communications Act) ( BE) and 817 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decreases the maximum period of loyalty in the context of electronic communications and introduces new mandatory elements to the contract ( NAP ), together with draft resolution No 1464 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the measures necessary to implement the simplified information sheet in electronic communications contracts ( PS ) and generally with draft law No 818 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act ( PSD ). of the seventh point, without time allocated for discussion, is resolution No 66 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, signed in Munich on 18 February 2017. Finally, on the eighth point, there will be electoral votes. Thank you all very much. A rest of the afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
