ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we get on the agenda, I would like to congratulate the PSD Parliamentary Group on the implementation of its Congress which took place last weekend. A hug to everyone. I would also like to ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, several legislative initiatives have been introduced into the Bureau. I refer to Bill No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a more favourable tax and contribution scheme for maritime transport activity and a special system for determining collectable material on the basis of tonnage of vessels, which falls to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 777 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Determines the extension of research scholarship contracts, scholarship contracts under scientific research projects and similar projects ( PSDs ), which fall to 8. the Commission, 778 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the exceptional and temporary arrangements for the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions established by Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April 2014 on seismic risks and other ( NAP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recomposes the possibility of the accumulation of permanent disability benefits with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the employee's overall earning capacity ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 780 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of TTCs ( CCPs ). The draft resolutions Nos 1330 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the mandatory information on urban rehabilitation operations in buildings or fractions in respect of standards and technical standards which have been or are not met ( NAP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1331 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government urgent in the rehabilitation and requalification of the High School of Rest ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1332 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately suspend further demolition on the island of Culatra and the treatment on an equal footing of all its population nuclei ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1333 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the early elaboration and implementation of a new National Plan on Prevention and Combating Human Trafficking ( PAN ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1334 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for valuing Portuguese agri-food ( CDS-PP ), 1335 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — At the end of the demolition on the Ria Formosa ( PCP ) bars, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1336 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repair of environmental damage caused by U.S. military forces stationed at the Lajes Base ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1337 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen research, experimentation, support, monitoring and agricultural advice ( CFP ), 1338 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support and enhance the production of chestnuts ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1339 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the special protection zone ( ZEP ) of the historical centre of Porto ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1340 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends Portugal's withdrawal from the 1990 Orthographic Agreement, cautioning follow-up and transition measures, a balance sheet report on the implementation of the new Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement and a new negotiation of the bases and terms of a possible Orthographic Agreement ( CFP ), 1341 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an eco-agro-food scientific committee ( NAP), 1342 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reversion of the privatisation of TTCs ( The Greens ), 1343 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By preserving and valuing the commercial port of Faro ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1344 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By improving rail transport in the Algarve ( PCP ), which also falls to 6. the Commission, 1345 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the full use of the potential of Portimão ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1346 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defence of small rent-a-car and transfer companies carrying out their activity at Faro airport ( PCP ), which also falls to 6. the Commission, 1347 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve, integrating all commercial, fishing and recreational ports of the Algarve region ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1348 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The abolition of the tolls on the Child's Way and the rapid completion of the requalification works at EN125 ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1349 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of specific compensatory measures directed at chestnut producers ( PS ), which fall to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the first item on the agenda, which is made up of political statements. For a political declaration, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality has come to be right to the CFP when it pronounces itself against the surrender to private interests of companies and strategic sectors that should be in the hands of the State at the service of the country's development. Today, PT ( Portugal Telecom ) is under the control of the multinational Altice—which is the same as saying that foreign capital controls the largest telecommunications operator in the country, a market leader in cable television, a single TDT operator ( terrestrial digital television), holding, in their private hands, universal access, the conditions of access and the issuance of channels of the public television service—donor of the fiber optics network and holder of the SIRESP network (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ), with significant participation as a player in this service, thereby controlling the system of emergency communications in our country. Today, PT, a large national and absolutely strategic company in telecommunications, is in the hands of those who have interests contrary to national interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u6	The Altice came to make clear what was coming: his founder's statements on how he would not like to pay wages and who would pay as little as he could; the gigantic operation of blackmail, repression and harassment on PT workers; the intention of dismissing thousands of workers; the perpetuation of precariousness; the fraud he practiced, abusively resorting to the illegal use of the rules of the transmission of establishment; the escape to his responsibilities, such as in the question of the replacement of telecommunications networks for many people in the regions affected by the October fires that still await these links. He made it clear to what he was coming and that everything was worth maximizing profits and expanding spheres of influence. The ambitious enlargement of the Altice dust, obviously in the announced intention of purchasing the Media Capital Group, cannot be ignored in the political debate, cannot be trusted or hidden by a supposedly technical decision of any regulatory entity, more concerned with the tree than with the forest, cannot be seen as any business between private companies of « importing soaps», because it is national sovereignty that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u8	Its possible realization would be in the hands of the Altice, a multinational of foreign capital, in addition to all the strategic dimensions that already dominates, open and cable television channels, radios, Internet portal, content production, a concentration of ownership and ownership of the media that violates constitutional principles, namely Articles 38. o is 39. the Constitution. The monopolistic concentration would take on a scale never seen by a conglomerate of power, with the domain of the main media platforms and the almost absolute power of telecommunications, which would result in profound and grave economic, social, cultural and political implications, in the conditioning of freedom of information and pluralism and, in this sense, of the democratic regime itself, calling into question national sovereignty and interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u10	The entire privatisation process of PT shows that this business cannot happen. All the disastrous consequences for their workers and for such an important and strategic sector as that of telecommunications, sold to the parts and far from responding to the needs of the population and the country, show it. The CFP will not compact with silences and abstentions, more or less embarrassed or compromised, in this matter — silences and abstentions mean complicity with this whole process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u12	We understand that the Government has all the necessary and possible mechanisms to stop this business and defend the national interest. And there is no need to wait for opinions from regulatory entities, which can simply be disposable or, even, unqualified and unacceptable from a democratic point of view, as seen in the case of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1994, it was created Portugal Telecom, SA, which joined TP ( Telecom Portugal ), the TLP ( Lisbon and Porto ) and the TDP ( Portugal TV broadcaster ), absorbing Marconi in 1995. Even in that year, by the hands of a PSD Government, the first phase of privatization of PT was carried out, followed by a second phase in 1996, a third phase in 1997, a fourth in 1999 and a fifth phase in 2000, having already delivered almost all of Portugal Telecom — the one that was already the largest national company — to private, being the State limited to the 500 gold-share shares, literally offered 11 years later by the PSD Government then to private shareholders. In the middle, by successive governments, there were several episodes illustrating the shameful decommissioning process of PT — the sale of Vivo to Telefónica, distributing millions of dividends by shareholders, tax-free; the millions applied in Brazilian Oi; the merger of PT and Oi; the sale, by a bagatela, of the public fixed telecommunications network to PT; the harmful management in PT and the loan of 900 million euros from it to Rioforte; and, cherry at the top of the cake, the sale of PT to multinational Altice. The way through these dates and moments is crucial for us to talk today about the disastrous consequences of PT privatization for our country and for the workers of this company. And, in this case of the Altice assault operation for the purchase of the Media Capital Group, we are not just facing a business with very serious consequences for the country, we are facing a process that constitutes a serious attack on democracy, sovereignty and national interest. The PCP will intervene to halt this assault from Altice to Media Capital, to defend the interests of the country, the rights of workers in these sectors, to make a way for PT to return to public control. Only in this way will the interests of the economic groups and their desire to accumulate more and more profits be prevented from outweighing the interests of the country and the interests and rights of the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u13	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u14	Mr. President, I respond in groups of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u15	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Socialist Party welcomes her for the concern shown and for the opportunity of the political statement she has just made, because we share and also accompany many of the concerns expressed in her speech. In fact, in one of the various areas that are raised and in which we have already had the opportunity to pronounce ourselves, the field of work, we not only share how I think we can be consistent with the concern, by subscribing and jointly presenting ways of, in the future, and in similar cases, preventing the occurrence of problems that effectively undermine the protection of workers. I believe that the aspect that you wanted to focus on in this speech is much more about concentration in the telecommunications and social communication sector and, indeed, there are clear risks and the need to be particularly clear in the full exercise of all the powers and powers conferred on public bodies. The Socialist Party has long stressed that it is essential to have clear rules on transparency in the ownership of media and that there are limits to media concentration, whether they respect the same sector or even diagonal limits, which has not always been possible to implement as we would like to, but in fact, the problem with which we are faced is that we have a model that puts a lot of the analysis of a process like this in the hands of sectoral regulators, whether the Competition Authority, or in particular the ERC. It is therefore in this framework that we have to work on and this is the framework which is in place to resolve and issue a statement on this matter. And it is precisely here, looking in particular at that which must be the position of a regulatory entity of social communication in a state of democratic law, given that its function is not only to guard a sector but also to defend fundamental rights and a heritage indispensable to the functioning of democracy, which is the existence of free social communication, not subject to any kind of external, economic or other pressure, which we find, indeed, that the possibility on the table is generating enough risks and doubts and therefore all the elements deserve a very concrete appreciation. Having said this, Mrs Deputies — and this is my question — in a regulatory framework such as the one we currently have, in a regulatory framework which has eminently delegated and transferred...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u17	I ask you to conclude, Mr, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, in a regulatory framework which essentially delegated and placed this task in the hands of the sectoral regulators, what mechanisms is that the honourable Member intends to exist, in addition to that, that is, in fact, the constitutional and legal framework in which we have to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u19	Mr Pedro Pimpão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, has come here to talk to us about a business that has already been discussed, particularly within those which are our competences, within the framework of 12. the Commission ( Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport ), we have had the opportunity to hear the views of the members of the Governing Council of the ERC, we know the reservations that ANACOM's opinion puts on this business and what we also know is that at the moment we are waiting for the invitation by the Competition Authority to know the final destination of the business between these two actors. But, Mrs Diana Ferreira, what I would have liked to have heard from the rostrum was the concern that the CFP should have with the sector of social communication in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u22	It was this concern that I would have liked to have heard from the rostrum, according to what happened here today in the Assembly of the Republic. Today, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the morning, we had the opportunity to witness a conference on the centennial press, an exhibition on the centennial press was opened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u23	And? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u24	...we had journalists, editors, newspaper directors talking about the difficulties they feel every day in order to continue to carry out their mission and Mrs Diana Ferreira goes to the gallery and is unable to speak a word to these media professionals who are experiencing difficulties and who do not have a word on the part of this government. [[PSD applause.]] I thought I was going to talk about it, Mrs. Diana Ferreira, I swear that I thought I was going to take this opportunity to make a mistake for supporting a government that has little relevance to the level of wager in the media. [[PCP protests.]] But I'm going to tell you: in relation to incentives to the local and regional press in 2016 and 2017, there was money, but the money didn't come to whoever needed it. We are currently witnessing the economic and financial difficulties of local, regional and national media bodies, which are experiencing difficulties and which deserve a word of support from this Government, but there is no word from the Members who support the government in this House, precisely in order to overcome the difficulties of the social communication in Portugal. So, Mr President, and since not even in the parliamentary support agreement...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u25	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u26	... which supports this government the social communication has been discussed, examined and proposed some measure, I will conclude by appealing to the Communist Party that the Member of Parliament would take this opportunity to redeem herself and, before this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u27	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u28	...to say what the CFP will propose to improve the media that are experiencing difficulties in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u29	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u30	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Pedro Piimpão. I would like to begin, precisely by Mr Pimpão, saying that the PCP Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to take part in the session that took place this morning, expressing deep concern with professionals in the field of social communication, and expressing these concerns with professionals in the private sector and the public sector of social communication, as well as with precarious situations and low wages, and this was not the first time, and will certainly not be the last time we did so. As long as this problem is not solved, the CFP will intervene or place on the table the concerns it has with the working conditions of the professionals in the media sector, journalists and others. That is why I think that we have been duly clarified about the CFP's intervention in this area, which is, in fact, broad and several years ago. As regards the concerns expressed here with the problems of even the media companies themselves, Mr President, it is important to say that the reality of the concentration of the media in a handful of economic groups is also at the root of many of these problems with which Mr here said he was concerned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u32	... but for which the PSD, while in the government, did nothing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u34	... did not solve the problem of these companies or intervention to improve the working conditions of workers in the media sector. [[PCP applause.]] It is also important to note here, Mr Pedro Pimpão, that, on the Altice and the risk that Altice represents, with the possible purchase of the Middle Capital Group, the PSD has nothing to say, the PSD has no concern,... [[PCP applause.]] ... the PSD is not concerned about the consequences for the country of carrying out this business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u36	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, to conclude, I would like to say the following: we believe that the Government has all the legal and constitutional mechanisms to intervene and can effectively block this process. This process, this assault from the Altice to the Middle Capital, more than a regulatory problem, which is not, is indeed a political problem, is a matter of defending the national interest, of defending our sovereignty. And, in this context, the Government has all the conditions, all the powers and all the legal and constitutional instruments to intervene and prevent this assault from Altice to the Middle Capital, preventing this business from taking place. It is a responsibility that the Government must effectively assume. In this regard, it was also important to remember that the Altice did not fulfil its responsibilities, for example, as regards the restoration of links to the populations affected by the fires, which, alone, is more than enough reason for the government to intervene, because the flight of responsibilities by this company is a mirror of what is its practice in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u37	Mr Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has now given the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, first of all, I would like to thank you for bringing this problem to plenary. At first glance, it seemed that we would agree in some terms of the problem that you put us here, but then, hearing the speech of the honourable Member, we realized that, after all, the PCP does not surprise and puts the focus on the business, while the CDS believes that politics does not have to enter into business and business does not have to enter into politics. [[PCP protests.]] For us, business should follow freely and, in the regulated sectors, those who have to intervene are not politicians, they are regulators, because that's what there is, that's why they are there. Exactly for that reason, the CDS, long before the PCP had dealt with this issue, put his finger on the wound and asked the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication why it had been exempted from issuing the opinion to which it was obliged. The ERC was exempted from the opinion that it was obliged in the past, with the previous direction, and was now exempted after the CDS question, in order to know if it did not want to amend its hand and, yes, now to issue the missing opinion, which should have been issued and which unfortunately did not issue. The new ERC—see yourself! — it felt that it was not worth deciding either, because the previous administration had decided and had spoken in relation to social communication, which, in our view, is a mistake, and a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u39	And go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u40	Madam Member, what I would like to ask you in this area is whether, in addition to concerns about business, the CFP is effectively concerned about the state of affairs in which the social communication lies, with the future life of our newspapers, our press, our televisions, because that is our focus, that should concern us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u42	I really am concluding, Mr President. As you know, and recently at the conference we said that, the press is an essential pillar of our democracy and, if nothing is done by our social communication, we can also call into question our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u43	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u44	I therefore ask you, Madam Member, what the CFP has to say in this area, much more than to meddle in the business of individuals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u45	You also have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u46	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to begin by thanking you for having made your political statement, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, on the multinational Altice and the policy it has developed and continues to want to develop in the area of telecommunications, and to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that I fully agree that this occasion, in fact, since the last year to this part, are appropriate and appropriate every day to discuss the policy of Altice. The Altice itself rejects Mrs Vânia Dias da Silva, when she says that business should not mix with politics, because it is the Altice herself who is asking to mix politics with her business; otherwise she would not have come here to complain about a parliamentary group that, fulfilling her contract of trust with the Portuguese population, presented a bill to defend the recovery of ownership and public management of the basic telecommunications network, which has been privatized since the beginning of the PSD and also completed by the PSD. The face of the privatisation policy of Portugal Telecom, in Portugal, is one party: the PSD. From the time of Cavaco Silva to Pedro Passos Coelho, there is a continuous and systematic political line of privatization of the telecommunications network and of delivery of management to private groups. The result of the delivery of this management to private groups is important enough and relevant for us here to discuss the urgency of returning the telecommunications network to public control. in this sense, the Left Block has already presented in this Assembly of the Republic a bill that we hope will be discussed and approved on 16 March.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u47	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u48	I would therefore like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, to conclude, if you do not think that it is enough time to experience and to be able to deal with the aggression...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u49	Sir, you have to finish. I also think it's enough time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u50	... that the multinational Altice has provoked in the telecommunications rights of the Portuguese people, to reverse this disastrous privatization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u51	You have the floor to answer Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u52	Mr President, I am also grateful for the questions put by Mrs Vania Dias da Silva and Mr Heitor Sousa. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, allow me to tell you from now on that, for the CDS, the defence of the national interest is to interfere in private business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u53	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u54	It is that when we raise the concern about Altice's business and the Middle Capital is precisely because we are concerned about defending the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u56	But there is, of course, a question that has to be put to the head and as an essential factor of this discussion, which is the return of PT to public control. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u57	It is that if PT had remained in the hands of the State, we would probably not be having this discussion here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u59	We might be having other discussions and other political debates, but not this one, which we are doing today, of a higher concentration of a strategic line covering communication networks, television channels, radios, Internet portals, strategic row, that one, which is or may come into the hands of a single company.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u61	It is this, Mrs. Member, that we are talking about and this is not a regulatory issue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u62	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u63	... this is a political issue resulting from the political options of various governments that wanted to privatize PT. [[PCP applause.]] This is what we are talking about here, because this discussion results from exactly the entire process of privatization of PT. Had PT been in the hands of the State and this would not be a discussion that was taking place at this time. Mrs Deputies, it was also important to reinforce that this question of stopping this business does not have to do with the involvement of private businesses by politics, but rather with the defence of our sovereignty, with the national defence of our country, with our security, because we cannot forget what happened within the framework of the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal) when the tragic events of last year and the consequences that this has for the people today. But then the CDS won't be interested in talking. Mr Heitor Sousa, I am also grateful for the intervention you have made and I reiterate here something about the public control of PT, which is, in fact, fundamental. Companies and strategic sectors in our country cannot be at the mercy of private interests, nor can economic groups serve to increase their wealth at the expense of these strategic sectors, at the expense of services and goods that should be at the service of the interests of the people and of the development of the country. The best way to contribute to this business is for the Government to intervene with all the legal and constitutional mechanisms at its disposal and take the necessary steps to get PT back to public control, to return to the hands of the State as a strategic and fundamental enterprise and sector, which is, for our country, in order to guarantee living conditions for our people and contribute to the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u64	You have the floor for a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in the Committee on the Environment, the Minister for the Environment has been questioned on a number of matters, including on uranium mining in Retortillo, Salamanca, and on its impacts in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is radioactivity that we are talking about, a project that is about 30 km from the Portuguese border, with direct impact on our territory, especially on the Douro River. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Greens, I am now going to this rostrum after this Commission meeting, and after hearing Mr Environment's replies, to appeal to all parliamentary groups. The appeal is to approve the Greens draft resolution, scheduled for the next 16 March, which urges the Government to take steps to stop the process for uranium exploration in Retortillo, at our border, with significant environmental effects for our country, taking into account that there was no cross-border impact assessment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight some aspects of the history in this matter. The process began in 2011, Berkeley presented a project for the installation of open-air uranium mining with a uranium reprocessing unit with radioactive waste cemetery. Taking into account the case, the Greens put themselves on the ground with regard to this matter and in 2013 brought it expressly to the Assembly of the Republic, asking a question to the Government on the subject to which the Government replied that there was no information either in the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), or in the Centre's Regional Coordination and Development Commission ( CBRC ) concerning the project to be installed in Retortillo. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this time the environmental impact assessment was already under way and with the environmental impact declaration to be issued, as it was, favourably, at the end of 2013. In 2014, the Greens made a move to the site where the project was planned to be installed and, together with the Spanish Congenere Party, EQUO, we filed a complaint to the European Union, claiming in particular that there was no cross-border impact assessment and also regarding the impact of this project on the Natura 2000 Network in Spain. In 2017, the European Union finally opened an investigation into this impact component on the Natura 2000 Network, but did not comment on the absence of cross-border impact assessment. In 2015 the Greens again questioned the government. In the answer it was noticeable that there was still a deep ignorance of the project, despite the warnings that The Greens had already given and also the issue of environmental impact declaration, it was already for two years. The same conversation is always the same: « We are waiting for information». In 2016, in response to another question from the Greens, the Government, specifically the Ministry of the Environment, replied, recognizing that there were impacts on Portugal in relation to the project concerned, reiterating the poor information it had obtained about the project and saying that it intended to open a public consultation in Portugal, as soon as the information arrived. In 2017, the Greens continued to ask for information and answers to the Government here in the Assembly of the Republic, through written questions and even in a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. In 2018, particularly today, it is clear that the Portuguese Government is still, serenely, waiting for information from Spain to assess the impact of the project on Portugal. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is here that the same question is being raised that we have had several times the opportunity to debate on the issue of Almaraz, that absolutely obsolete nuclear power plant which was supposed to have ended in 2010. The Government considers that it has the right to be informed, not only this government, but also the previous government, but the Greens consider that this is not the correct attitude on the part of the Government. The Government must have a proactive attitude and must demand its right to participate in the environmental impact assessment, taking into account the cross-border impact component. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens call for the adoption of the draft resolution which we have scheduled for the next 16 March, because the absence of a cross-border environmental impact assessment has made the process completely inconclusive to move forward either by way and by reason of what, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there is a clear violation of the protocol of action between the Portuguese Government and the Government of Spain in the application of environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u66	Mrs. Deputy, the Members have signed up. Members Emilia Cerqueira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Pedro Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Patrícia Fonseca, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, and Miguel Tiago, of the PCP Parliamentary Group, to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u67	Mr President, I will respond to requests for clarification as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u68	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Greens' bringing this matter to debate, which was also discussed this morning at a regional hearing with the Minister of the Environment, and which the PSD also brought to the discussion, given our concern, that we share with the Greens. As you know, there are not only these uranium mines right now, but several others, and it is important that this be said. It is spoken only in Retortillo, as if this were the only case, but we have Villar, Alameda, Eagle and Retortillo, in a kind of triangle, in the provinces of Salamanca. It is a great concern that the PSD has, as it has had with Almaraz. Our biggest concern is to see the government's passivity since it became aware of this situation in 2016. According to APA, the Portuguese Government was first notified in 2016 on the issue of the mines of Retortillo, which are in the advanced stage. We are extremely concerned that only after a visit by the Committee on the Environment to Retortillo and the cross-border municipalities, we have seen the Government take a position, including the Prime Minister saying that he would listen to the Spanish Government on this matter. Even today this morning, the Minister for the Environment has finally had the same passive attitude, which has been indeed the government's performance matrix on these nuclear-related matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u71	So, unfortunately, we are talking about a much more comprehensive situation. We are talking about the nuclear project of Almaraz, the waste store and, now, the exploitation of uranium in the cross-border zone, and the exploitation of these uranium mines, in the molds in which it is found, the largest outdoor uranium mine—it is important to say this, which is the open sky— can cause great environmental impacts on this side of the border. Although we know that the Portuguese Government has no direct competence in the management of Spain, the truth is that we expected it to be more proactive. Even since 2016, we had official knowledge of the question already being raised to the Portuguese Government, and we hoped that the government would take it to the Luso-Spanish Summit, which took place in 2017, but nothing. Not a word or a line in its conclusions and summaries, at least from the documentation that has brought us. This is a situation that is of great concern to us. We are concerned about the involvement that may have on the brake sheets...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u72	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u73	I will finish, Mr President, by asking the Greens whether, in addition to a draft resolution, which, as we know, will almost always stop in the drawer, there will be some joint legislative initiative with a view to the transboundary environmental impact. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u74	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a fact that we are faced with another serious episode in the relations between the Portuguese authorities and the Spanish authorities, after all that has happened with Almaraz. The idea with which we are left is that it seems that the Portuguese authorities have learned nothing from the Almaraz process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u76	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u77	In the case of Retortillo, we have four main actors: the previous Portuguese Government, which cannot be exempted from responsibilities because it has not done anything about this since 2013; the current Government, which continues to exchange correspondence with the Spanish authorities, but has no attitude towards the bilateral dialogue that must exist, but also within the framework of the European Union, demanding that the protocol of action between the two countries be fulfilled; also the Spanish State, which is sheltered in evasive attitudes, which calls for information, which is not transparent, which is not clear and does not apply the international standards to which it is bound; and finally — always — the populations on both sides of the border, which, through its authorship, have expressed the greatest concern with regard to the possibility of the implementation of these uranium mines in Retortillo. The question I would like to put, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, and thanking the House for bringing this issue to plenary, in the Assembly of the Republic, is the following: what measures is it that the Assembly of the Republic, in a consensual manner, convergently, because it is absolutely necessary that it be so, it should require the Portuguese Government, so that international standards be applied, so that the implementation of the uranium mine in Retortillo? This is because the well-being of the populations is at stake in the territory, the environment and the health of the populations, as we know in fact from the experience we had of uranium exploration in our country and which, fortunately, ended 17 years ago with the closure of the mines of the Urgeirice. It's essential to lock...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u78	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u79	Mr. President, I will finish. It is essential to stop that Berkeley initiative, it is essential to stop uranium exploration in Retortillo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u80	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u81	Mr President, Madam Member, the CDS believes that Portugal must respect the autonomy of other States, in this particular case of Spain, but Portugal should not abdicate its rights under the Protocol on projects with cross-border impact. in such cases as in other cases, in particular that of Almaraz, the Government does not transmit to us, the CDS, the minimum confidence—I think it will also agree with us — nor that Spain is fulfilling, nor that Portugal is being firm on the demand that these commitments be fulfilled. This is clear to us in the contradictions that Mr. Minister himself reveals: firstly, he said that Spain will honour its commitments, but still this morning he said that he can only obtain information from the neighbouring country when he took out irons. He also said that he has been accompanying this subject, but last Sunday we heard the Portuguese authorships in Almeida say that they have already put a number of questions to the Government, and even to the Public Administration, but that they have never received an answer, which leads us to question whether, in fact, the Minister has these answers, then why he keeps them for him. The Minister says he trusts the Spanish commitment to inform Portugal about the decisions which he is taking, but the question I put to you, Mrs Deputy, is in the sense of knowing if you think so, and well, that the Portuguese cannot rest on the impact on the quality of the environment and public health arising from the possible advancement of the exploitation of this mine, since it is part of this government solution. What strategy does the honourable Member understand or has planned to make the Government fully defend the interests and well-being of Portuguese citizens and public health? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u82	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u83	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to congratulate you on the initiative of the Green Party to bring this issue to plenary. Even today, during the morning in the Committee on the Environment, this issue has been widely debated, and it is important that the whole plenary of the Assembly of the Republic be involved in this discussion. Everything indicates that, in fact, the Spanish State is preparing to proceed with the strategy of implanting a uranium mining operation at 39 km from the Portuguese border, close to watercourses that are fluent in the Douro and where there is a predominant wind regime that may also undermine the quality of air that is breathed by the Portuguese, with the suspension of radioactive particles. In view of the evidence that the Spanish State intends to move forward with this exploitation, it is therefore absolutely decisive that all measures are taken to ensure public health, protection of the environment, the well-being of Portuguese people and, of course, with particular intensity, the populations of the Guard District in the area of Almeida, which are closest to this exploitation, in Retortillo. from the PCP, we would like to say that the commitment to these objectives is integral and that we will do everything to either the Assembly of the Republic or the Government undertake all efforts to ensure the protection of the interest of the Portuguese, of those who live in that region and, of course, of public health issues. This puts the Government in the face of a clear situation: it must intervene with the Spanish State in respect of, of course, its autonomy, its internal organization, its decisions, but also with respect to international protocols, the law which allows an interaction between the two States in the case of a cross-border conflict...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u85	Therefore, of the two, one: the Portuguese Government has to demand that the exploitation does not progress or that Spain equips Portugal with all the instruments to be able to ensure the true environmental impact and public health of that holding, with guarantees that all the mitigation measures necessary to ensure that the risk is as close as possible to zero. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u86	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u87	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by thanking the Greens for keeping this item on the agenda. In the morning, following the 11th visit. the Commission to the raian zone with Spain in the Guard area, we have maintained an open dialogue and each of us has expressed its views, but indeed the Retortillo mine and the Yeltes River are a huge problem for Portugal, particularly for the Guard region. It is not worth constantly raising arguments to find guilty, but since 2013 it has been - it has been said, in the Chamber of Almeida, that this municipality was alerting the Portuguese Government to this situation. It is not worth arguing, therefore, when this started or stopped starting, the important thing is the answer we are going to give, because we are facing a very serious situation. in those regions, the earth is the only asset whose mobilization depends on us all, nature is what remains of the rays. And we have found that, even on the Spanish side, the hope of those people lies precisely in what Portugal can do. They have lost hope with the Spanish Government and the Spanish Courts, lost hope with the Castilla y León Board, and we are, in a way, the shield of salvation to which they are grasping to resolve this situation. The issue is not only raiana, the Guard region or the border region of Salamanca, it is from the entire river basin of Douro. We cannot forget that this region has two World Heritage Sites, the Douro Vinhateiro and the Graves of Côa, and that tourism and wine are absolutely fundamental products, just a small black campaign to challenge investments that are made there and that are, in fact, the hope for that area. I wanted to leave two or three questions to the honourable Member. First, I do not agree at least with the idea that the Portuguese Government is watching the matter passively, but we must see that little more can be done until now than it has done. If, in the Greens' opinion, the Ministry of the Environment is not responding to the problem as it should, in view of the data that exist, what more can be done at this time in defence of our environmental sovereignty?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u88	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u89	We must put an end to this environmental smuggling that Spain is doing with Portugal. We must unite around this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u90	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u91	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, I do not mean that the honourable Member has no legitimacy to say whatever it is, as is evident. Who am I to remove this legitimacy from you? Is that what you're talking about? But you should be embarrassed when you talk about the issue of government liabilities, because then the qualification you use in relation to the current government, with what I agree, has to be extended to the previous government, with what I also agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u92	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u93	That's not true, says the honourable Member. In my political statement, I made a history of how the Greens questioned the various governments in Parliament and what their government told us was, of course, "We have no information on this matter". But Mrs. Deputy, at the time, you didn't alert yourself. You know why? Because its mobilization is done according to the authors rather than the concrete causes. That is what removes her legitimacy and credibility, Mrs. Mr Soares, from BE, asks me what measures the Assembly of the Republic can take in a consensual way to demand action from the Government on this matter. I tell you, as I said earlier in the rostrum, that one of the measures which I think the Assembly of the Republic should take in the short term is precisely the adoption of the draft resolution of the Greens which is scheduled for 16 March, so that, in a unanimous manner, this House calls for a mobilisation of the Government with the Spanish Government to ensure that that that project of the uranium mining in Retortillo does not advance, taking into account, in particular, that there was no cross-border impact assessment. The Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca also asks me what we are going to do before the government. By the way, I take advantage of a rectification: I am not part of the government solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u94	Aren't you? Oh, my God! Don't get out of here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u95	I am a member of the Assembly of the Republic, such as the honourable Member. The Greens bring a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic for concrete action, to call on the Government to action, and I hope that you will vote in favour of this draft resolution. I hope you have listened to the history I mentioned in the political statement I gave in the rostrum. Mr Mr Miguel Tiago, we also agree that the Government should make every effort with the Spanish Government to intervene on this matter. I would like to tell you, Mr President, of course, that the 2008 protocol on the assessment of cross-border impacts has been violated! We can't stop taking that into account. If you tell me 'but Spain is sovereign in its decisions on the exploitation of its resources, its energy policy', I must say that we are also sovereign, and that is precisely why we cannot take, in silence, impatience and serene, with the impact of the environmental decisions taken by the Spanish Government. If they have a cross-border impact, we must have a word to say, particularly as regards the assessment of these impacts. On the other hand, Mr Santinho Pacheco, from the PS, I give him reason on a question which raises and which seems very important to me. I said in my political statement how the Greens have mobilized from the knowledge of the project both in the Assembly of the Republic and outside it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u97	I'm done, Mr. President. It is true that the Municipality of Almeida has also alerted the previous government to this issue many times very vehemently. It is true, Mr President, that those people have removed everything, removed fundamental public services, regional dynamics; they do not now withdraw either nature or health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u98	To give the PSD's political declaration, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last weekend 37. the National PSD Congress - Democratic Social Party. Of course, I would like to welcome the political parties that were represented at the conclusion of this National Congress, particularly the CDS-PP, in the person of your president, Mrs. Mrs.Crist Assumption, who honored us with her presence. in this Congress, a new national leadership of the PSD was elected and were also unanimously approved the main lines of policy guidance of the PSD for the next two years. It was a Congress in which ideas were discussed and a strategy was adopted with the aim of serving Portugal and the Portuguese. There was participation, there was debate, always with the highest elevation in all the interventions that took place. Dr. Rui Rio, the new president of the Social Democratic Party, saw his global motion adopted unanimously, the same motion with which he presented himself to the direct elections of January 13, and gave the country an example of union and pluralism. Some political parties, more accustomed to some rules of democratic centralism, will never realize that the strength of democracy lies in respect for the opinions of others, even when different, and that this respect is a force and not a weakness of democratic parties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have recently said that the PSD has approved in this Congress its new political strategy. It is an essentially turned strategy for the country, directed to Portuguese, concentrated in the common good. It is a strategy that requires each of us to feel the duty and sense of public service. As Dr. Rui Rio said, having people as the center and the reason for our action is the mission and the fundamental basis of the thought and action of a true social-democratic party. The great areas that the President of the PSD has defined as priorities for the future strategy of his political party run and rely heavily on this personalist and interclassist vision that conceives politics for people and does not instrumentalize them for the benefit of any other power project. Therefore, we choose as major areas of future action the social issues and the economic challenges of the country. For example, Portugal can no longer continue to ignore the problems of low birth which, for decades, have compromised our collective future. Effective and decisive social measures are lacking in support of young couples so that they can have the children they want, and therefore need friendly public policies of the family, which promote birth and promote access to housing by young families with children. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal cannot continue to leave the elderly at their own expense or allow many hospitals, which serve to treat patients, to become establishments for social admissions. It is therefore necessary to increase, and much more, the network of continuous and palliative care and to bet decisively on a strategy to support home care. The PSD will no longer wait. We will therefore start a public discussion, involving the living forces of our society, on various matters of interest in the social, economic and other areas, because, for example, in the chapter of social policies, a courageous approach is needed to strengthen the sustainability of our social security in the coming decades. And the PSD will never cease to confront the other political parties with this duty before future generations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u100	Health is another area that is very concerned about PSD. contrary to what official propaganda is still sustaining, unfortunately the National Health Service is ill: waiting lists to increase in surgeries, patients waiting for years for a consultation of hospital specialty, lack of clinical consumption materials in hospitals and health professionals demotivated and frustrated with the government's lack of response to the problems of the sector. The PSD reaffirms today, here, the defense of a more effective National Health Service, with more autonomy, that it puts more on the prevention of the disease rather than having to fight at an advanced stage. The current government's lack of investment in the National Health Service is simply embarrassing. But we could talk about many other areas, such as education, in which the PSD will continue to fight for the return to a culture of demand that leads to educational success and returns to our students a perspective for the future in which merit and knowledge are the measure of its limits. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has long been an excessively centralised country. The political decision is too far away from the citizens. We therefore defended — and we had the opportunity to say this week, either to Mr President of the Republic or to Mr Prime Minister — a medium- and long-term strategy that will implement a real reform of the State, capable of ensuring, as the President of the PSD said, «a more territorially balanced country, with better and more rigorous management of public expenditure ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u101	You've finished your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u102	I will finish, Mr. President. In the economy, Portugal needs to grow more and better. The State must be less and less an obstacle to entrepreneurship and increasingly an investment facilitator. Therefore, many of these challenges must be met by taking on each of them their responsibilities. For the PSD, the Government of the Socialist Party is hostage to the Left Block and the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u103	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. Even in view of the tolerance inherent in the fact that he is talking about the Congress of a large Portuguese party, he must comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u104	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only two more things. The PSD advocates the implementation of many of these reforms and is available to promote a fruitful dialogue with all political parties, especially those with whom we are closest. at the end of this intervention, and today being the day when Mr. President of the Parliamentary Group, Dr. Hugo Soares, ends his duties, let me, on behalf of the new national PSD Directorate, present to him and to the entire team that has accompanied him in recent months, the best performances. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u105	Today they remembered him! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u106	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, five Members were registered for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u107	Mr President, I will respond to a set of two and then to a set of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u108	First of all, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, of course, sends the praxis that the party left the Congress, also complimenting his particular person for the position he will now occupy. First of all, I must tell you that much honored the Left Block to be the main theme of the PSD Congress. No, of course, because of the affection they treated us with, but because, every time they beat us, we realized that we were clearly fulfilling our role and defending the country. The great message that PSD tried to pass this weekend was that it has a new singer and a new song. But, smirking the Congress and what was said there, we realize that the lyrics of the music are exactly the same as the one they say turned the page. Otherwise, let us see what the President of your party said in the closing intervention: he talked about the issues that have already been talked about by Passos Coelho and, above all, with which PSD and CDS so many times had hurt the country; he spoke about social security in order to say that it was necessary to achieve sustainability. Now, that, in PSD, means « you need to figure out where to cut »! I ask you, Mr President, if it is now, here, that you have the courage to tell us where the 600 million euros with which the PSD went to the elections will be cut off, saying that it would have to be cut off in social security. I also ask you if you have the courage here to say what Rui Rio has not said, i.e. to propose the ceiling of social security, creating a private system to decapitalize the public system. I also ask you, Mr President, whether in health you will have the courage to say here, near-white, whether the PSD will propose the continuation of the policy of decapitalization of the National Health Service, of withdrawal of professionals, of attacks on its financing and of degradation of health quality in our country, as it did during the four years of its governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u110	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. I also ask you if, as far as education is concerned, you will say here, more clearly than Rui Rio said when he said he missed the 4th exam. the year, which, after all, the model of Nuno Crato is exactly the same as the PSD has to present to the country. I also ask you whether, when you talk about domestic consumption, at the end of economic recovery you will again propose cuts in wages or pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u113	Finally, I ask you, Mr President, if you should not start this new cycle with an apology to the people who have cut wages, to whom you have cut pensions, to the social state, which you have cut, and to the country, who have sacrificed for four years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u114	Get judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u115	For requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, first of all, and on behalf of the Socialist Party and its Parliamentary Group, wanted to welcome democratically the realization of 37. Congress of the Social Democratic Party. Secondly, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that it was unfortunate that the whole country had witnessed more internal complaints from the Democratic Social Party than a concrete idea for the country, which is what the Portuguese want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] Thirdly, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the new President of the PSD on the new era of dialogue which has opened between the PSD and the Government on such essential issues as decentralization and Portugal 2030, which are absolutely crucial for the country's development model, which the Government and the PS have put on the agenda. I would like to tell you this, Mr President: the PSD is still the same PSD as ever. On birth, health, or education, it is impossible to recognize that, in order for all these things to be in the right places, and well, so that Portuguese have better access to health and education, there must be greater economic growth, more employment and stability in employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u117	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u118	Mr President, what I ask you is whether this new era of the PSD, of dialogue, is also an era of recognition that Portugal is far better today. Portugal now has 288 000 jobs and a historical rate of unemployment. Yes, Mr President, it has to do with concrete measures, which concern people's lives and stimulate their birth, because they give stability to families and people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I ask you, Mr Member, if, when you talk about health, you know that it was your government, supported by the PSD and CDS benches, which made the greatest attack on the memory of the National Health Service and you know that today 94% of Portuguese have a family doctor,... [[PSD protests.]] ...there are 2000 more doctors, there are 2000 more nurses and 350 million euros in the area of health. But the state in which you left your health did not leave us nor can you leave us rest,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u119	...because what you did was an attack on public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u120	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. It is not only worth the PSD's speech on social issues and social concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u122	What a can! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u123	Specific measures are needed and whether or not they are in line with the course we are taking. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u124	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u125	Mr President, I begin by thanking you for the congratulations that have been made to me by the honourable Members. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares and Ana Catarina Mendes. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, if you have been attentive to what happened at the PSD Congress, you have heard badly, you have misunderstood or you have been seeing and listening to another congress. In fact, let me tell you that the PSD, as a party that is proud to have contributed significantly, over the decades, to our state of democratic law, invited several political parties to our Congress and there was only one that was not only present as not even responded to the invitation: it was your party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u126	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u127	It's not even moral!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u128	So when I heard him ask if today I and the PSD would have the courage to speak in the courts, I do not resist returning this challenge that made me: is it today that the Left Block has the courage, before all of us, to assume that it is a hidden austerity? Austerity that has been translated into such things: in seven hospitals, more than two years is expected for a consultation; there are more than 700 doctors waiting to open competitions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u129	In PSD time it was good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u130	...and more than 1700 patients are waiting for bed. And we could talk about public investment numbers, we could talk about other areas of public policy. I do not know whether you have already regretted the political circumstance that allowed you to settle in Portugal for the first time in recent years. The PSD has already made this mourning, and one of the merits of this Congress was precisely that. But you do not want to say that they are only in the current government solution for what happens in the satisfaction of your customers and street demonstrations, which, in fact, and all of us have realized it, will increasingly happen. So, most likely, it is time for you to begin to assume your austerity, because you have lied to the country, saying that austerity is over. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u131	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I would like to tell you that the President of the PSD, Dr Rui Rio, took up before the country this week, particularly at meetings with the President of the Republic and, for a long time yesterday, with Mr Prime Minister, that the PSD is available to, on behalf of the intransigent defence of the higher interests of Portugal and the Portuguese, contribute to finding solutions to matters of regime. Do so in coherence, on behalf of what the President of the PSD has always defended before and after becoming President of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u133	Madam Member, let me tell you the following: we are not going to talk about the spectacle of internal complaints here, because compared with the internal complaints that have already taken place in direct elections in your party, we are boys of choir. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u134	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u135	Mr President, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, I would also like, on behalf of the CDS-PP, to greet the PSD by the Congress which held last weekend, the newly elected members in new functions, in particular, and in particular, you, Ex.a, and wish the greatest happiness to the current PSD leadership in the performance of the functions that they are now beginning. The CDS, as you have pointed out, accompanied this Congress with great interest and was represented in its closing by the President of the Party. I want to leave a note of thanks for the way in which not only the President of the CDS and the entire committee of our party has been received. I want to tell you that we will maintain — and we believe that we will agree to maintain — a privileged, non-artificial relationship, like others, a relationship of parties that, when the country needs, when the country demands, when it is necessary to assume responsibilities, can make even those differences that they have, convergences. Of course, I would like to point out the speech of the new president of the PSD at the end of the Congress, of which you also came here today to underline some ideas. I refer to the ideas of concern with demographics; of concern with the state to which health has come by the means of those — imagine, Mr Deputy! — that, for years, they have filled their mouths with the defense of the National Health Service and that today are the first, second and third enemies of the same National Health Service ;... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u136	... of concern with education, by those who have walked, years after years, to defend the public system of education, but who are those who allow there to be public schools of education that do not work, or because of lack of physical conditions or lack of conditions at the level of staff;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u137	In his time it was good! Is that what you're talking about? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u138	... and also of concern, from a longer-term perspective, in relation to a matter as fundamental as that of social security. I must tell you that, above all, the CDS, for two years, has put forward proposals such concrete proposals that Mrs Ana Catrina Mendes has come here to demand the PSD. For two years, the CDS presented these concrete proposals in and out of the Assembly. But, Mr President, the truth is that all these proposals have only one destination on the side of the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party : the trash can. However, I would like to tell you that, on our part, we will always maintain, and nevertheless, the availability so that these consensuss, in what is essential for the country, can be done. We know that between us, among our parties, these consensuses are natural, they are not artificial, and they will necessarily be easy to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u139	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u140	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable Member a very clear question. I should like to know whether the honourable Member, in view of the cuts that the Government has made and that this majority has done in essential services that he has identified, does not consider it necessary to have a majority of 116 Members, so that the country may have a government that does not look for the short term but for the medium and long term. That was the question I wanted to leave you with, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u141	Also to ask for clarification, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u142	Mr President, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, of course, wanted to begin by complimenting you and, in your own person, your party for the completion of the PSD Congress. I would also like to record a first set of questions, which, in our view, result in some clarity from the Congress, which, moreover, we have accompanied. In fact, it is quite clear from that Congress that the PSD is attempting to erase the memory of what was the policy it carried out from the government, particularly from the last government, with the destructive action of the country and the rights of workers. It seems to us that it is also relatively clear the attempt to whiten out the responsibilities that the PSD has in the very serious structural problems that the country continues to face. It is also clear to us that the PSD is seeking to find a way to recover this policy of aggravating the exploitation and impoverishment it has developed from the last government. Basically, the PSD seeks to see that it has abandoned what it has done in the government, but in fact it maintains exactly the same orientation, exactly the same sense of the national disaster policy that it executed in the previous government. And that is particularly clear, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, when you look at what has been said in relation to social security and what the PSD insists, not only on the privatization of social security, but also, again, on resuming the discussion on the sustainability of social security in order to reach the conclusion that it is necessary to cut pensions and social benefits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u143	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u144	...or move into social security revenues. This is also particularly clear when the PSD insists that, in relation to health, the path must be to privatization, that of the health business, with the SNS in a secondary level, poor of resources and investment and only limited to the most basic health care for those who do not have economic resources, which also happens in relation to education, where it proposes, for example, in higher education, a higher education logic for elites and governed by the interests of large economic groups. Now, this leads to the first set of questions which I would like to leave to the honourable Member, which are the following: is the PSD really convinced that the Portuguese have already forgotten what they have done to them and that they forgive them? [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Until when will the PSD insist on refusing to recognize what has done to the country and to the Portuguese, what has done to the workers and the people? How long will they insist on the recovery of this policy that they have executed against the interests of the workers and the people?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u145	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u146	I conclude now, Mr President. A second aspect that I wanted to record very quickly has to do with the following: there is no lack of elements that reveal the convergence between PS, PSD and CDS in matters that are structural for the country, unfortunately with the examples that come true, that these convergences only result in damage to the country, to the workers and to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u147	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. In accepting the European Union's taxes, in refusing the renegotiation of debt, in maintaining the monopoly capital domain on strategic sectors or in matters such as what happened 15 days ago, with the rejection of the proposal made by the PCP for the payment of extraordinary work, convergence between PS, PSD and CDS has resulted in losses to the country, to the workers and to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u149	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u150	And that only confirms, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, that the PSD is not part of the solution that needs to be further developed: the path of the replacement of rights and income and the realization of a policy that truly solves the problems of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u151	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u152	Mr President, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, I would also like, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to begin by welcoming the achievement of 37. the PSD Congress. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that I believe there are some parties which, sometimes, would like to see, by holding a congress, if it were to erase at least a part of their past, people would like to forget, if they were to pass a rubber and never remember what these parties really were responsible for in the policies they have carried out and that they have so much affected people. Mr President, I have listened to you in the Congress to greet each other, to applaud each other, regarding the policies they had practised, for example, in the last Government of the PSD and the CDS, without demonstrating a single sign, however small it was, of regret over many of the policies they have practiced and made viable, which have so much affected and abused the Portuguese people. Then there is something that costs nothing, Mr President, that is to take on certain flags and say this: "We are all very concerned about birth. We are very concerned about the elderly, health, education, regional asymmetries and social security. And we raised these flags with great concern. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is appropriate to say, as many people say, “We are all concerned. ” The point is to know what solutions we have to find for these issues to be resolved. And the PSD responses were given, particularly in the previous government, and their guidelines were very clear. When you withdrew and cut wages to Portuguese workers and when you turned to a logic of extension of precariousness, the signal they gave to families was that they did not have the conditions to have the children they wanted, and this affects the logic of birth that we necessarily need to reverse. With regard to the protection of the elderly, you, when you took away wages from your children, also de-protected the follow-up of your children to the elderly. And they also cut off their pensions. Don't forget that, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u153	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u154	I shall conclude, Mr President. And when they closed public services inside the country, they closed railway lines and weakened railway lines in the Tres-os-Montes and in the Alentejo, they encouraged regional asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u155	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u156	And when they removed professionals from the National Health Service and public schools, they weakened these services. These were your answers, the answers that the Portuguese have known from you, of which they certainly do not miss. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u157	To reply, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u158	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I thank you for your congratulations and reaffirm what the President of the PSD, Rui Rio, has already stated more than once: for us, the CDS-PP is a political party with which we have differences, but it is much more than that which unites us than what divides us and prides us from the work we have done together, still recently, at such a difficult time for our collective life. As far as the question is concerned, whether or not the country will need to have a majority centre-right, alternative to the current governance, it can count on the PSD, because it is in this sense that we will work in the coming months and during the years 2018 and 2019. Mr. João Oliveira, I also thank you for your congratulations, as I thank the delegation of the Portuguese Communist Party for once again honoring us with your presence at the end of our Congress. When he speaks of our memory, I want to tell him that the PSD is proud of the work he has done in recent decades, at the service of Portugal and Portuguese, from the very beginning in the solidification of our democratic rule of law, in the definition of master traves of our democracy, in particular in the stabilization of the political system, of the political regime, of the separation of powers, of the first constitutional review, when we ended with the Council of the Revolution and the Constitutional Court was created and we became a democracy of whole body. The PSD is also proud of the option we have taken by Portugal to belong to NATO, proud of the European option we have taken, proud of the work we have done both in governments where difficult decisions have to be made, both in governments where we promote the country's economic and social development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u160	In fact, as I mentioned earlier in the political statement I gave, the PSD will face the forthcoming legislative elections with the clear objective of winning, as it won in 2015. And we are perfectly aware that the Portuguese who gave us victory in 2015, contrary to what they may think, will be much more attentive to what has been the governance of the Socialist Party and, in particular, to some of the mistakes we encounter in what can be defined as another kind of austerity and a hidden austerity. I would like to ask Mr João Oliveira whether the CFP will do anything, for example, on matters such as the one in a press article entitled « The CFP requires twice as much public investment ». Curious is the so-called « Government of the Left and the Far Left » is the government which, in recent years, comparatively, in Portugal, less promotes public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u161	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u162	What if that were to happen to us? Oh, my God! No longer to talk about other matters, it doesn't matter to speak now because time is short. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would also like to thank you for your compliments. He offered to tell me, when he asked if we were sorry, he asked me several times if we were sorry about this or about that, that there is one thing that I am sure: we are not sorry to have sent the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u163	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u164	It is that, when they put it in Portugal, we had to deal with it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u165	And there were few who would be able to do it and we had the courage to do it, not thinking about the interests of the PSD, thinking, above all, about the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u166	Mr Galamba has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent times, we have seen an attempt to devalue the country's economic results. Some insist that the greatest growth of the century, after all, is little or nothing, that Portugal grows only because it also grows throughout Europe. Portugal — they insist — in comparison with both the EU and the euro area, is one of the least growing countries, and this is the fault of the government and the current majority, who are enemies of the private initiative, waste the good external environment and do not make the reforms that the country needs. If the last two years, after all, did not bring the devil, there are those who guarantee that the country is clearly below the results it could have if the policies were different. Which ones? No one knows and they don't understand themselves. instead of the presence of the devil, it seems that we now lack a reformist spirit, an accusation which, curiously, she also resorts to beyond and to the supernatural, for assuming the existence of a spirit that, like all true spirits, is devoid of matter. Theologically, I could even make some sense; politically, nor for that reason, because they say that reforms are needed, although they still don't know what. That there are many countries that grow more than Portugal is not a fact today, but always. Portugal has been one of the least growing countries in Europe for a long time. In 2015, for example, there were 18 countries that grew up more than Portugal — some, much, much more. The difference between 2015 and 2017 is that for the first time in this century, Portugal grows above the European average and — even more important — has significantly reduced the difference against European growth champions. This, yes, is a very relevant novelty to the recent country's past—a reform, therefore. Yes, the external environment is good, no one denies it, but it was also in 2015, when the European Union and the euro area grew significantly the same as they are now growing and Portugal not only grew below the European average as it was in strong deceleration, having virtually stagnated in the second half of the year. Interestingly, Spain even grew more in 2015 than it has grown now, in 2017. What changed in this was that Portugal grew much more since the second half of 2016, and grew more with another policy, which cannot fail to be valued and properly recognized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From 2015 to 2017, growth in the euro area accelerated 0, 1 percentage points ; in Portugal, this acceleration was nine times higher, 0, 9 percentage points. In 2015, the growth of the Portuguese economy was almost half that of the Spanish economy ; in 2017, this difference was reduced in three quarters : 3, 1 % in Spain, 2, 7 % in Portugal. Looking at the Irish case, the comparison is still better for Portugal, because Ireland grew 25, 6 % in 2015, while now it only grows 8, 3 % — curiously, exactly the same as it grew in 2014, when Portugal grew 0, 9 %, a third of what it grows now. We can continue to set examples. When we looked at the growth champion countries, we also improved: in 2015, the difference, on average, compared to the countries that grew most in the European Union, was 2, 8 percentage points ; today, this difference is much shorter, being only l, 7. Let us make the comparisons that we have made, we have made the rounds that we have given, it is undeniable that Portugal is today, in economic terms, on the right path, and is surely on a better, much better path than the one on which it was. We are not satisfied, as is evident, but we know that good results are due to good policies and that, therefore, if policies change and results improve, then we should consolidate and deepen the strategy that has been followed and that implements this same change. To consolidate the results achieved and prepare for the future — this is our commitment. High investment growth, significant strengthening of foreign direct investment, high and increasingly diversified growth of exports — this is the mark of sustainability. The bet on qualifications and the bet on innovation, which is an excellent example of the bet on collaborative laboratories, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Science, are ways to qualify and value the Portuguese production fabric, increasing productivity without being at the cost of employment and wages. It must be recognized that increased family income and associated consumption growth are the cause and consequence of economic growth. More and better employment, more income and better wages, real increase in pensions and improved social protection (social income for inclusion, unemployment benefit, pay), more tax justice and better income distribution, none of this is a mere result of growth, much less a kind of premium for past sacrifices, is an integral and fundamental part of the growth that we have today and that we want to continue to have in the future. Competitiveness is made including people and their living conditions, never against or against such people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal now grows inclusive and sustainable, reducing poverty and inequality and investing in the future. This is the direction we want to maintain and deepen, this is the PS commitment, today and always. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u168	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u169	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u170	Thus, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u171	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. João Galamba on the subject he has brought, having told us about the data of economic growth. On this subject, I would like to say, firstly, that the fact that Portugal is having economic growth is good, is a positive fact. Pity is, that is what I can say, that this year in which we are, 2018, according to forecasts, we did not come to have a growth as expressive as what we had in 2017. On this point we would agree, the problem is that you are not happy to list these facts — of course! — I had to talk to you about the greatest growth of the century, almost the greatest growth of all time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u172	Of the millennium, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u173	In fact, I had already heard all these theories when talking about the best deficit of the century, in a whole climate of euphoria, despite some warned advice, certainly, even of people much wiser than me, to discourage euphoria. The euphoria, Mr. Deputies, is always a bad advisor. It would also be more credible, Mr President, not that almost everyone in this House and in these benches had already heard the expressions « the greatest growth of the century », « the best ever deficit ». Mr President, I would like to remind you that I have heard exactly these expressions, and that was not so long ago, it was not even two years ago. When the government is using them, we can at least pretend that we are talking about different things, because we have had the Prime Minister Socrates to say them, and now we have Prime Minister Antonio Costa to say them, we have the Minister of Teixeira Finance of the Saints to say them, and now we have a different protagonist, Minister Mário Centeno. But here in Parliament, on the part of the PS, the protagonist says they are still Mr Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u174	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u175	So it becomes particularly difficult to pretend that we are talking about different things and different times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u176	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u177	... because they are exactly the same moments of euphoria, led by the same discourse of facilities and fantastic results,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u179	...that they lead us to an end which is certainly not the one that neither the honourable Member nor I want.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u181	Of course, Mr. President. So I ask you, Mr. João Galamba: if we are so well, so well, so well, why do we still have the austerity hidden in public services?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u183	Why do we continue to have a public investment far below what we had in 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u184	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u185	And now, why don't you take advantage of the opportunity to lower the taxes you made on gas oil and gasoline? If everything is so good, I don't know why you need these measures. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u186	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u187	Mr President, Mr Galamba, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have discussed today in your political statement. As you know, the previous government and the parties that supported it, PSD and CDS, insisted very much on an idea that there was no alternative to the policy that continued cuts in rights and incomes. They hammered this idea into exhaustion, but it was a defeated idea in the legislative elections of October 2015. In the face of the new political framework, in which, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, it advanced on the path of the replacement of rights and income, reversing the evils of the former Government, PSD / CDS, these two parties rushed to predict the disaster. The honourable Member is sure to recall what the PSD and CDS said two and a half years ago about the consequences of the replacement of rights and incomes and what that would mean for the country: an economic disaster, a second rescue and even announced the coming of the devil.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u188	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u189	Fortunately, for Portugal and for the Portuguese, the devil was not worthy to respond to his summons. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But the replacement of rights and income has not only led to economic stagnation, to economic collapse, as on the contrary has caused the economy to grow more, those figures which you have referred to. In fact, he acknowledged in his speech that the return of rights and income is the cause of economic growth. In this regard, I would like to ask you a very direct, simple question: if the policy of the replacement of rights and income had gone further than it was, would we not now be talking about more significant economic data than those which you referred to in your speech?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u190	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u191	And with regard to the future, Mr President, since he states that the return of rights and income is the cause of economic growth, if this policy is continued, deepened and brought to new levels, will we not have more significant economic growth, a more significant job creation, an even greater reduction in the unemployment rate?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u193	I also wonder if, by recognizing this, you do not recognise that it is also necessary to remove those barriers to the deepening of the policy of reintroduction of rights and income resulting from the limitations and constraints imposed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u195	I should like to conclude by saying that these constraints and limitations prevent the return policy from being high on a new footing and consequently prevent greater economic growth and job creation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u196	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u197	Mr President, I shall begin by answering the questions raised by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS. The honourable Member has relativized growth, speaking of the forecasts for this year, but she should also have talked about the forecasts for last year. That is because, and this Mrs Deputies did not say, in 2017 it was also expected that the Portuguese economy would grow less than the European economy and what we had was the reality of defeating these forecasts. That is why I would ask the CDS some caution, especially on the basis of the experience of the most recent times, to value in excess forecasts which, like all the forecasts made on the policy of this government and this majority, have been defeated by reality. So I would value reality more than predictions. On the CDS' speech on an alleged hidden austerity, Mrs Deputy, we have had this conversation several times. The Socialist Party accepts criticisms of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens when they say that this Government has not yet sufficiently corrected the legacy left by the previous Government. In fact, we have not been able to eliminate in all sectors and in all areas the destruction operated, with great zeal and zeal, for four years, but that path is being made. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Therefore, if the CDS wants to mimic the discourse of the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens, recognizing that the amendment, in the face of the policy of the previous government, is important but still insufficient, I will say that makes sense. If not, Mrs Deputies, I have some difficulty in accepting—and I remember, for example, your concrete case—that someone who agreed with the cut of EUR 600 million in pensions now criticizes a government that, although it is not reinvesting or reinvesting at the desired pace of the PCP and the Block, is surely resting and investing at a significantly higher rate than that which came from the previous government and that which the parties of that government promised for the period 2016 - 2019. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Mr. Paulo Sá, I fully agree with you, insofar as the parties on the right, PSD and CDS have to reconcile with the fact that they have put all the tokens on the idea that there was no alternative, that there was the demon or the disqualification there and that did not happen. Apparently, they have not yet made this mourning, nor have they taken a step forward to the new narrative, but in fact that is what happened. Not only in Portugal but also abroad, many voices said that it was impossible to deviate - one millimeter from the path of failures of the previous government, because they valued more commitment than the results. The former Government said that it was very committed to reducing the deficit, committed to solving the country's structural imbalances, despite having done the opposite: it had failed to achieve any goal of the deficit and had aggravated all the country's structural balances.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u198	All structural balances? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u199	What Mr Paulo Sá says makes a fundamental difference between the left, despite our differences, and the right. It was, moreover, well stated this weekend at the PSD Congress, the idea that people’s rights, their living conditions, their incomes and the conditions that allow Portuguese families to consume are not fundamental elements of any growth strategy, are, as much as possible, a consequence of a growth, defended by the PSD and the CDS, which we do not know very well where it comes from. But the idea that growth comes first and then, who knows, one day, perhaps people, their rights and their income is, in fact, a position we do not share. We believe that the living conditions of the population, their incomes and their rights are central elements of any inclusive growth strategy, and it has been exactly this that this government and this majority have put into practice, with the very positive results they know and are clearly differentiated from the policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u201	That is why I also agree with you, Mr President, that we must continue and improve the current strategy. The Socialist Party, unlike the CFP — and now the Bloc and Greens — believes that the replacement of rights is not everything, must be compatible with its sustainability. And we think that the policy that has been followed in recent years and is in practice in this Budget reflects exactly this balanced view between the replacement of rights and incomes and the commitment to secure sound public finances. There is no better guarantee for Portuguese workers and pensioners that their income will be respected than to ensure that the measures we take to defend the same income respect the sustainability condition. That is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u202	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u203	Mr President, Mr Galamba, in fact, your creative and imaginative ability to invent here more millions of investments that we do not know clearly demonstrate the seriousness of your intervention here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u204	It's just fantasy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u205	We are also very pleased and used to see the Socialist Party recalling and comparing the past, always forgetting its own past, particularly that of bankruptcy. This never reminds you here, of course, because these numbers don't interest you as it is obvious, and you must understand, we are pleased to see the Portuguese economy growing, that there is no doubt left, but do not think of you as pessimists and you as optimists! No, we understand that the growth of the Portuguese economy is important, and therefore do not come to us with this conversation. But, indeed, in your speech, there is no single reference to the negative historical savings levels that we are having — 4 %. About this not a single reference! It doesn't matter at all! It doesn't matter to anyone! There is also no reference to economic data on the level of indebtedness of Portugal. It doesn't matter for anything, it matters a historical blackout about these stories. Nor does it concern the growing indebtedness of Portuguese families. It's a fact that doesn't matter at all! Once again, we completely forget what is going on and we return to those times of « spending cheerfully and impoverishing sadly». Of course not, you have already done the blackout of your sad past, without making an apology to the Portuguese. There is no reference to the very low investment rates we have had in recent years; here, yes, historical records of the last 60 years. We remember that the years of 2016 and 2017 were nothing famous. The state has failed in different areas. With this, Mr. João Galamba, of course, we compare the Portuguese economy with the European economy, and it makes sense to see how the other countries of the European Union have grown. Let us now see: Latvia grew by 3, 5 %; Slovakia by 4 %; Hungary by 3, 7 %; Poland by 4, 2 %; Lithuania by 2, 9 %; Romania by 4, 5 %; Bulgaria by 3, 7 %; Slovenia by 4, 2 %; Croatia by 2, 8 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u207	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Czech Republic grew by 3, 2 %; Finland by 2, 8 %; the Republic of Malta by 5, 6 %; Cyprus by 3, 2 %; the Netherlands by 2, 9 %. Great Portuguese result! I am glad that the economy is growing, but in fact both this government and you, the only concern they have is with the short term and with the 2019 elections, nothing more! They don't care about Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u208	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u209	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, one thing we know for sure: no government will ever do worse than the PSD and CDS did during the four years of austerity and the crisis in which they sank this country when they had the opportunity to be government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u210	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u211	Today, the results are good and give us reason. Protecting wages, protecting pensions, increasing social support improves the economy and strengthens it. It was deeply wrong who, like the PSD and the CDS, defended that he was impoverishing and suffering that he would emerge from the crisis. The right was wrong and your program could only be saved if there was a crisis. There was, and therefore, the program on the right failed. The right, today, has no programme for the country, so you can only do these exercises, complain that it is good, but little. To complain that it's good, but little, the Left Block is here, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u212	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u213	I must be very honest, Mr. João Galamba, to tell you that many of the measures he presented here as responsible for economic growth have gone ahead after hard negotiations with the government and despite many government resistances, and many of them have even been on the way. Today, we could have increased growth and improved growth if the government had not underestimated the effect of return policies and increased income distribution. The evidence is that in the CFP the government predicted a growth of 1, 8 % for 2017 and growth was 2, 7 %. So the first question I ask you is: what critical balance does this growth make, which was far beyond what was planned by the government? Second question: who is winning with a growing economy? How is the wealth of a growing economy distributed to support economic growth? And there are some mechanisms that are promised by the PS: the second phase of the early reform regime; the law of long-term contracts; changes to temporary work; the end of the individual hour bank; the fight against precariousness. My question is not if you commit to these measures, because they are requirements for 2018. My question is whether the PS can be consistent with the analysis that you have made of the rostrum and you can go further, namely by reviving and protecting collective bargaining, by reverting right policies into the labour code, which lower the value of work, protecting wages and supporting the process of economic growth to which we are watching. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u214	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u215	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, you do not seem to have heard my speech. Mr President, Portugal has always been one of the least developed countries in Europe, and it is true that there are many countries that grow more than Portugal today. The question is that in 2015, in the last year of its government, the speech of its party was that, yes, the conditions for a genuine resumption and convergence with Europe had been created. In fact, all the countries that you listed, these same countries grew more than Portugal. The difference between 2015 and 2017 is not to have 18 or 20 countries growing more than Portugal, because that was the number in 2015,... [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] ...the difference is that for the first time in many years, we grew more than the average and we are much closer to that front platoon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is the difference, Mr. Deputies, that it was important to be recognized by the PSD. It is not worth changing faces and saying that they are not reflected in the policy of the past of the PSD if they do not also change the discourse about the reality of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u217	... and this, unfortunately, did not change this Congress, because it maintains exactly the same speech as the previous PSD leadership. in this, Mr President, they have not changed anything and if they really want to turn the page, then they try to change and recognize the reality that actually exists today. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] The country grows more, grows much more and is much closer. The perfect example is that of Spain. The gentlemen. Members have always been talking about Spain: « Spain is our model! "We must grow as much as Spain!" Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” However, in 2015, Spain grew by 3, 4 % of GDP and Portugal grew by 1, 8 %. In 2017, Spain grew by 3, 1 % and Portugal grew by 2, 7%. Thus, the difference with the growth champions in the European Union is today the least in the last 15 years. Therefore, you can turn around, quote the countries you understand, what is a fact is that today we are much better than in the past,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because, even though these countries grow more, the difference is much smaller than Portugal. This is a path that we have made and it is important that we recognise this effort of the Government, of the companies and of the Portuguese workers, is the contribution of all of them which allows Portugal to have the results it has today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u218	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Socialist Party recognizes, of course, that the return of income and rights is fundamental to the economic results we have today, but also recognises, unlike the Left Block, that the effort to ensure the fulfilment of sound public goals and finances...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u219	What about the law of work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u220	...is an equally important ingredient. We must work on several fronts, because there is no economic growth without the return of income and rights and there is no return of income and rights without the sustainability of public finances. And this is the result that we have an obligation to guarantee the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u221	The law of work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u222	On labour law, Mrs Deputy, there are differences between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, but there is one thing that we all recognize, which is through the organization of workers, collective bargaining and the defence of their rights that keeps wage growth high. It is important to invest in qualifications, but it is not enough; that is why working dialogue and worker consultation are fundamental. The Socialist Party has differences in relation to the Left Block — there are things in which we accompany the Left Block and things in which we do not follow and there are things in which the Left Block does not accompany the Socialist Party. We value social dialogue, value collective bargaining and that is why the extension ports have increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u223	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u224	... were significantly extended, vis-à-vis the previous government, in fact contradicting recommendations and ideas, both the PSD and the CDS and the European institutions themselves. It was important for the Left Block to recognize this, because what matters between us is not to agree at all. And it is certainly not the Left Block becoming a mythical vision of the PS and surely it is not the opposite either, the PS becoming a mimetic version of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u225	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u226	The important thing is the left being able to collaborate, to dialogue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u227	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u228	...and to build solutions that improve the living condition of the Portuguese. This is what we have done and I hope this is what we continue to do, not only in 2018 but for many and good years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u229	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal closed the last uranium mine in national territory in 2001. Seventeen years later and many tens of millions of euros after the closure, the uranium environmental liability is still not resolved and the populations of the region continue to suffer the effects of radioactivity. Surprisingly, when the nuclear industry is losing ground around the world, Portugal is again confronted with the dangers of uranium and radioactivity, but now on the side of the border, about 40 km, in Retortillo, next to the municipality of Almeida. The Spanish State has authorized and granted to Berkeley Minera, of Spain, the Retortillo-Uranium Operating Health project, which would be the only open-air uranium mine throughout Europe, such is the impact of these types of farms on the territory and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u232	The perimeter of the two mines is located in an area of high ecological and environmental sensitivity, next to the Natural Park of the International Douro (PNDI ), and is crossed by the Yeltes River, flowing from the Douro. Spain has already issued the project-friendly environmental impact declaration in 2013 despite having been determined 14 severe impacts including soil contamination, air pollution, changes in surface and deep water, damage to habitats of Community interest, fauna and, in particular, avifauna, among others. Incomprehensibly, only in 2016 is that the Portuguese authorities ask Spain for the first information and consider that the project is likely to have significant environmental effects on Portuguese territory. Since then, the behaviour of the Spanish authorities has been evasive and not collaborative. They do not recognize that the project can have impacts on Portugal, from the beginning on the Douro River, which is absurd and against all evidence. They do not implement the Protocol of Action between the two countries, as they compete with them, to carry out a cross-border environmental impact assessment, involving the Portuguese and Spanish authorities and public consultation in both territories. On the contrary, they have been exchanging correspondence for almost two years without transmitting any relevant information. The concern of the population, expressed through the regional and alcaid authorities, was evident in the visit of the Committee on the Environment. The possibility of radioactive contamination by air and river has devastating contours for development expectations that remain in those territories, linked to the environment, heritage, tourism, agricultural production and extensive livestock production. Berkeley Minera, from Spain, wants to explore uranium at the Portuguese border for 10 years, withdraw profits and supply the arms industry and nuclear power plants, but does everything in collaboration with the Spanish Government and the European Environment Commissioner, former Minister of the Rajoy Government, not to take on the serious damage to nature and impacts on Portuguese territory. In fact, it is environmental dumping: they have the profits, we have all the losses, with the environmental liabilities that will last for decades in populations, in people's health and in territories and that will cost millions to the public record in decontamination processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u234	Portugal has the right and the duty to require guarantees, and it should already have done so. Of course, the PSD / CDS government, in 2013, when the Environmental Impact Declaration was known and when the City Council of Almeida asked him for clarification on this matter, irresponsiblely, let the country delay. Now, the Portuguese Government cannot continue to insist on delay and let itself remain for an inconsequential correspondence exchange and that serves only the radioactive strategy of Berkeley, the Spanish Government and Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete. As in Almaraz, they want Portugal to be confronted with consumed facts, excavated mines, unreversible environmental attacks and unprotected populations. Clearly, it is more than obvious that Spain does not want to recognize the impacts on our territory and does not want to make the assessment of the environmental impact across borders. The Minister of the Environment has already agreed to go to Madrid and has not received an answer. The Spanish authorities are rolling until the last license is passed and the industrial component can move forward. The Spanish Government does not comply with the Protocol of Action between the two countries and the Portuguese Minister for the Environment has just recognized this morning in the Committee on the Environment. What more is needed, what further evidence is needed for the Portuguese Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to require Spain to comply with the Protocol of Action? What more is needed for our Prime Minister to move urgently to the Guard district, to affirm solidarity with the populations, with the Autarchs of Almeida, Pinhel, of the municipalities of the Douro Superior, with guarantees of defense of their interests, which are the interests of the whole country?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u236	What more is needed for the Portuguese Government to take part in the failure of Berkeley Minera, Spain, and the Spanish Government to comply with its European obligations and standards? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Government, the Portuguese State has obligations with those populations, it has obligations with the environment of our country, it has obligations with our population and it cannot be exempted from them. It must require the Government of Spain to comply with European standards, with international standards. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u237	Mr Soares, you have signed up to request clarifications of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u238	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u239	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Pedro Soares on keeping this matter on the agenda. In fact, the open-air uranium mine Berkeley wants to explore in Retortillo, a few kilometres from Portugal, is a serious problem. It is also true that this is a problem that had its beginning in 2013, as has already been said, with the Declaration of Environmental Impact, which should have been cross-border and was not. There, the previous government has done nothing; now the PSD also regrets this. It is true that this is a matter of concern and that this uranium exploration next to the Portuguese border will certainly create us many problems. We must therefore demand that Spain assess the cross-border impacts in order to preserve public health and the environment. The few people who still resist in these border lands deserve Portugal to look at them. These people have already lost almost everything: public services and even hope in a better future. They do not now withdraw their health and their natural environment. But, Mr Soares, it is not true that the Portuguese Government is not doing anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u241	This Government is accompanying and demanding information and has already asked, as the honourable Member has said, a meeting with the Minister of the Environment of Spain to try to resolve this problem quickly. I therefore ask the honourable Member what concrete measures and actions can the Government and the Assembly of the Republic take to mitigate this serious problem? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u242	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u243	Mr President, Mr Pedro Soares, I would also like to congratulate you on the subject that you brought to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. The questions he raises are, in fact, relevant to our country, in particular to communities, localities, populations that reside close to the border. The Portuguese Government itself has already acknowledged that there is or may indeed be impacts on our territory following the advance of this project of the uranium mine in Retortillo. These impacts may be aerial, radioactive and also in the tributaries, particularly in the Douro River, may be in our environmental heritage, and it is worth mentioning the existence of the Douro International Natural Park and a set of protected areas, and may still be in the public health of the populations. We believe, in this regard, that it is essential for the Government to take action to safeguard national interests, to safeguard public interests, to ensure the well-being of our people, public health, and also to safeguard environmental issues. It is essential that this be the case. We believe that the Portuguese Government, in the context of the international diplomatic relationship with the Spanish Government, must do everything to ensure that the public interest is safeguarded and that there is indeed a cross-border environmental impact assessment that clearly identifies the consequences and impacts on our territories, so that appropriate measures are taken in response to that same assessment. That is why the CFP, today in this debate, says again — we have already said in the morning, in our speech, that everything will be done to ensure that the national interest and the interests of the people are protected and safeguarded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u244	To reply, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u245	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr José Manuel Carpinteira and Mr Paula Santos asked the questions they asked. I just want to say very quickly that I recognize that the Portuguese Government has done something, has exchanged correspondence with the Spanish Government, indeed. There have been letters even with some affection between the two governments, because we are friendly countries, neighbouring countries. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is clearly a lack of a question here, a lack of political attitude towards the seriousness of the situation. That's the central problem, sirs. Members, why it is not enough to make public statements after the visit by the Committee on the Environment to Retortillo and after there has been the media repercussions and the mobilization of autarchs on one side and on the other side of the border. The Portuguese Government should have had this political attitude before, it should have mobilized all its diplomatic availability to require Spain to comply with the Protocol of Action between the two countries, and it did not, indeed, do so. He's been asking questions. It's good that you ask questions, but, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we need answers, we need guarantees from the Spanish Government on this issue, and that is what has not existed. Therefore, I say and reaffirm, there has been no political attitude on the part of the Government. There must be a political attitude on the part of the Portuguese Government once and for all. I therefore put this concrete challenge to the Portuguese Government: firstly, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs develops all the diplomatic possibilities that it has to require the Spanish Government to comply with the Protocol of Action between the two countries; secondly, that the Portuguese Government, through its Prime Minister, gives a fundamental signal to the country and Spain that it is available to mobilize all its political means to defend, as Mrs Paula Santos said, the public interest, the interests of the people, the interests of our territory, the interests of the environment and the ecosystems of our country. It was very important for him to travel to the Guard district, to travel to the International Douro and to affirm it clearly and publicly so that everyone could hear and that the populations in those territories would also gain confidence in the Portuguese Government to defend their interests. That is the point, this is the political attitude that is essential that it be taken, and that has not yet been taken. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u246	We moved on to the second block of clarification requests. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u247	Mr President, Mr Soares, today has been a day almost entirely devoted to this matter, either by the PSD or by the Block, through the Member and myself. Let me tell you that we are supportive of your intervention, at least with almost all of your intervention. We agree that it is important to have a proactive, strong attitude on the part of the Government to come to protect these populations. We see this concern with good eyes, and it is good that this is very clear, because we are talking about our most poor, older, more depressed, and whose only wealth is truly their landscape, their nature, their environment, their surrounding environment, this is the great wealth of those territories that do not have many other sources of income and wealth to value themselves, and we became concerned both in Almeida, at the meeting with the autarchs, and then in Spain, at the meeting with the alcaides, who also exposed us their concerns, because, really, the reality on one side and on the other side of the border is very similar. Let me tell you, Mr President, that I am only sorry that the Left Block, although it comes with this speech, in which we see ourselves again, and I say, once again, as part of this government solution, is only opposition from time to time and that in the days in which it is government, it has not urged the Government to take concrete measures and attitudes beyond those which we are now seeing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u248	Mr President, I should like to pay attention to your speech today so vehemently on this matter and to the concern so obvious as to the issue of uranium and nuclear, which is a more central and comprehensive issue and which everyone is concerned about, I ask: what are the concrete measures, in addition to words, speeches and communiqués, that the Left Block intends to bring to this House, so that we can all together have real, legislative attitudes and, indeed, condition the action of the Government in any way? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u249	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u250	Mr President, Mr Soares, although the Greens have already made a political statement on this subject today, much of what we wanted to say has already been said, I would like to congratulate the Bloc on strengthening this debate with the political statement just made. Mr President, one of the things that should bother us most - it is this passivity of governments - let us say so - on a subject that has a concrete impact on Portugal. And we're talking about radioactivity, heavy metals, water contamination, atmospheric contamination, with repercussions also on the Douro River and, therefore, in all the municipalities and the entire surrounding population. So we're talking about a very serious issue. Now, with a favourable Environmental Impact Declaration, with an Action Protocol for the Assessment of the Transboundary Impacts between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government clearly violated, how is this liability understood? I say « passivity » because the attitude is only « request », « wait for» information from Spain, and in fact this cannot be. When we have this clear awareness that APA has consistently stated, in a response to a written question asked by the Greens, that it is deeply aware of the direct and indirect impacts that this project of uranium mining in Retortillo has on the national territory, how does it not have a proactive attitude? It is not in the sense of asking, it is in the sense of demanding that we have an active participation in an environmental impact assessment process. That's what's required! It is clear that we are talking, as mentioned here, about territories with a great shortage of response to the level of their dynamisation, their economy, the activity offered to their populations, as is the case with the municipalities of Almeida, Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, Freixo de Espada a Cinta and other municipalities bathed by Douro, therefore in the vicinity. We are talking about a macadama that can be given to a potential for vitality in a region where they have been removed so much. And it can't be. Mr President, I have already informed you that the Greens have scheduled a concrete draft resolution on this matter, urging the Government to take this proactive attitude and to defend the interests of the Portuguese, our territory, our water resources and our ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u251	Mrs. Deputy, you want to do the favor of finishing up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u252	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would like to have a word from the honourable Member about the support for this initiative which the Greens are going to present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u253	To reply, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mrs Emília Cerqueira and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for the questions they have raised. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I know it originated in a territory that has rural characteristics and certainly knows very well what happens to the populations living in these territories. They are populations that have a high level of deprotection, which sometimes have difficulty in making their voice heard, claiming their own interest in these matters. Mrs Deputy, do you think that populations in these rural territories of low density, abandoned, are four years ago without any response, without any reference from the Portuguese governments, two of them of the responsibility of the PSD Government / CDS? This is inconceivable! This is not attitude, this is not protecting populations who need first to be protected by the Portuguese State and, in particular, by the Portuguese Government. This has not been done and, fortunately, now at the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, this problem is being raised. I am glad that the Committee on the Environment has visited those territories and has spoken with the autarchs on one side and with the alcaides on the other side of the border. There were populations who mobilized to our way and, as has already been said today, at the Commission meeting, there were people from Retortillo, Spanish, who came with us and told us "our last hope is in you. It is in the Portuguese Members and Members. Lift this issue, because we need to stop the implantation of that very dangerous uranium mine in Retortillo." The honourable Member, who knows the rural population well, also knows, of course, what is a little girl. This repetition of the prayer that we are part of the majority that supports the government and, as such, we do not seem to have the legitimacy to put the questions no longer convinces anyone, except those who have faith in that avenue, and only the honourable Member can have it. I must say that the position of the Left Block, regardless of being part of the parliamentary majority that supports this government, has always been to put all issues, all its disagreements with all the frontality and, once again, that was what he did in relation to the populations of Almeida, Retortillo and all that region of the International Douro. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u255	It is doing so and I welcome the fact that consensus is being sought in this House of the Republic in order to have a clear, if possible unanimous vote to defend these populations in order to stop mining. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to say to you that, of course, you can count on our vote and also our contribution for the various draft resolutions to be voted on in this House of the Republic in order to place the Portuguese Government's absolute need for due diligence in order to stop the exploitation of the restortillo-Saintity mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u256	For a political statement, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Agriculture and forests occupy three quarters of our territory, but many are afraid to continue to ignore the contribution these sectors make to the growth of the country's economy and sustainable development. In the years 2011 to 2015, when Portugal was under financial intervention, recovering from the bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party placed it, the agricultural sector showed all its resilience, dynamism and innovation capacity. in this period, the exports of agri-food and forests have always grown above the rest of the economy and more than imports, which contributed to a substantial reduction in the deficit of the commercial balance sector. Not only in the cork, but also in the wine, olive oil and vegetables, from the traditional rock pear to the modern small fruits, the producers regained confidence and this was noted in the increase in investment decisions, and the Community framework could be implemented at 100 %. Public opinion has become more aware of the enormous transformation the sector has suffered for the better at this time; it has become seen in modernity and in the future, and many young people have wanted to install themselves. Having arrived on 2 December 2015, at the debate of this united Left Government Programme, the CDS asked to state in a question to the then newly Prime Minister, António Costa, the importance that agriculture and the rural world have for the CDS, which has always considered them relevant to the development of the country and the national economy. Unfortunately, in the last two years, who doubted that, for the PS and for this government, agriculture and farmers, such as forest and forest producers, are not on the list of priorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u258	From the way one of the most serious droughts has been managed that there is memory, the lack of support for investment, the brutal attack on the Portuguese forest or the anecdotic situation of the management of rural fuels, there is little positive that this government has the mark. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in February 2018. We have 100 % of the country in drought, more than half severe. January was 10. the consecutive month with precipitation below normal and the last 18 months are the driest period since there are statistical records. Since April 2017 the CDS has been warning about the need for extraordinary support measures for farmers, but Minister Capoulas Santos is afraid to ignore this reality. We have put forward proposals, such as the exemption from the rate of water resources, support for animal nutrition or aid for electricity expenditure, but the Government is responding to nothing. Worse, the Minister deceives the Portuguese and announces millions when he doesn't even give coughs. It is limited to delaying aid already from farmers by law, which is 100 % Community and does not cost one cent to the state's coffers. All this because, today, we know, and I quote, "there are no money bags" to distribute to farmers. These'money bags' were all for the unions. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, yesterday were known the INE's agricultural forecasts, which indicate that this year will have the lowest area of autumn-winter cereals of the last 100 years. The pasture has run out and livestock producers are feeding animals, brutally increasing production costs. The crops of irrigation, well, these no one knows if there will be water to water them, so it is an unknown if they will come, even to be sown.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u259	Don't tell me you've stopped praying! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u260	Strangely, to the left of the PS, the Block and the PCP, not a word. Well contrary to February 2012, when there were no lack of criticisms and inflamed voices that now remain silent. It is the purchased social peace, Mr. João Oliveira! [[CDS-PP applause.]] What about investment? How is the RDP ( Regional Development Programme )? If it's not stopped, it's slowing down au. More than half of the programme still has actions whose competitions have never opened and some of them have not even been regulated. Only 36 % of the projects are contracted and more than 6000 applications are decided, but for which there is no financial availability. The implementation of the State budget has been below EUR 100 million each year and is only 41 %. So you can have an idea, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these 41 % correspond to an annual execution of 13, 5 %, the same which led to the exoneration of the manager in 2016 because it was necessary at that time to print a new dynamic in the Programme. Once again, on the left, silence is total.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u262	And how's the forest? After a dramatic summer of 2016, the government, perhaps after consulting any focus group, hastened to present a supposed forest reform, which in its majority did not move from a set of legislative amendments to existing diplomas, in an autistic and dominant attitude against all and against all. Unfortunately, even before this reform — the largest since the time of D. Dinis, according to the Minister for Agriculture, could even produce effects, here it comes 2017 and Portugal lives the most fateful, devastating and deadly year in terms of fires and the Portuguese find that they were delivered to their fate. The government will then return to making a number of amendments to the recently approved diplomas, because they were not so well. Changes that have been so much and so well prepared in Mr. Ministers who don't even understand the government itself and we watch the Prime Minister's office come publicly on a day to say something for 15 days later if he comes to dislodge. First, let them cut everything and then cut off only the bush; first, that there can be no trees 50 m around the houses and then that they can already since they differ between themselves 4 m, but, of course, if they are eucalyptus — this cursed species, now also backed by the brave pine tree, then they must be 10 m long. And why do you ask the gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Because yes, because someone in the cabinets understood it was this way without consulting the experts, who say it's a mistake. However, in numerous villages throughout this country outside there were many who cut off fruit trees from their backyards. In conclusion, I will say, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that agriculture, the rural world and the agri-food sector are a potential for the territory, indispensable for the development of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u263	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u264	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. In the CDS, we therefore defend a rural world that is a place for all, for the most competitive and for the smallest that occupy the territory and provide agrosystem services. Portuguese farmers are entrepreneurs, innovative and know for a long time that they cannot count on this majority, that they cannot count on this united Left Government. The CDS, in the field of agriculture, says « present », and says « present » with consistency. What we stand for today is what we did yesterday and what we plan for tomorrow. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u265	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u266	In a group of two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u267	All right, Mr. Member. Therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr. João Castro has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on the subject that has brought us. I begin by saying that the Government Programme, which is implementing, provides for expenditure of EUR 1167 million, allowing to run EUR 615 million in Community funds; more than 50 % of the Budget includes transfers to farmers and businesses; the generality of the Ministry's agencies sees their allocations strengthened, with increased human resources, solving precarious issues; the milk crisis has been, and is being, facing forward, without pushing the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u270	We are in the presence of answers to current issues, not forgetting the most emerging ones, such as those of the forest, in a clear contribution to the development of the economic potential of agriculture, to its competitiveness, to its internationalisation, with a stake in the stream, aiming at an efficient and sustainable use of the water resource — we can already talk, as a reality, about the expansion of the Alqueva, solving what the previous government should have decided, in more than 50 000 years ago, what seemed to be a mirage —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u272	... with a bet on rural development, with concerns of rejuvenation of the sector, with the status of small agriculture with rights and duties, with a reform of the ongoing forest, which will be planned in the medium and long term, with a register, and the conditions are created to finally advance in Portugal, with the support of the Permanent Forestry Fund which includes an increase in investment with the increase of its allocation. It is also planned to carry out a budget of 100 % in the order of 100 %, repeating the implementation of 2017 and 2016 — Portugal is the third country of the European Union in the implementation of the EAFRD (European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development) —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u273	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u274	...and an objective cut with successive previous investment deficits. It is true that there is still much to be done, and it is also true that problems of the past have been inherited that should not have existed and that the financial hole in agri-environmental measures is an example. All of this in a framework of restraint and rigour that times require, allowing us to meet the country's external commitments. in this context, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether Portuguese agriculture is better structured and organized for a better negotiation of the Community framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u275	Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the CDS and Mrs Patrícia Fonseca for bringing the issue of agriculture into debate and, in particular, a matter of greatest relevance today, the drought. The seriousness of drought and its consequences at the various levels require a serious and responsible attitude on the part of the political power, which we have unfortunately not seen on the part of this government. On the other hand, following the request for clarification from the PS Member, I would like to say that in this case there is no excuse, it is not due to any hole in the previous government. The drought is really happening now and the fault for not doing anything is this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u278	More: the way this government is dealing with drought shows a complete disenchantment. [[PS protests.]] On the other hand, the unwary can be heard by the protests. The lack of monitoring and tools to deal with drought also shows the priorities of this government and above all shows its lack of political vision when it comes to working for Portugal. The government has spent two years giving in to the demands of the left-wing parties of the PS and trying to solve the problems it has committed to remain in office, but has forgotten to rule for Portugal and for the Portuguese. An example of this is the National Plan of Regadios, which is two years late and today the Minister referred to it as a solution for drought, which he said was to 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 all the animals had died and the farmers had finished! It is not in 2021 that a problem will be solved today that this government has to have tools! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u279	The National Regadio Plan begins with two years of delay because of this government. More, sirs. Members : to say that farmers will be helped to solve the drought problem by creating a credit line of 5 million is really to play with the Portuguese, it is to pay more those who need to be dishonored at this time to cope with their expenses. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, whether or not she agrees that it is regrettable and a complete disregard to say that farmers, taking into account what they do in the country, need to be « money bags »? Instead of coming to talk about "money bags" and having been captivating money to solve the problems that the previous government wanted to solve, the Minister should have held on to that money—he did not need to be in bags—to increase the implementation of the RDP, especially for the lines for the most efficient mechanisms of water use. Then, yes, I would have solved the drought problem and helped the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u280	In reply, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Castro and Mr. Nuno Serra, I am grateful for the questions that have raised me and that are, in fact, very relevant. Mr. João Castro, the State Budget is a set of intentions. The government can well expect to spend EUR 1 billion, but if it does not spend them, it does not matter anything they are there. What we have seen over the past two years is that the budget implementation at the level of agriculture has gone far beyond what the government has planned. So that doesn't tell us anything. With regard to the 100 % implementation of the RDP, I must say that the PS is exempt from attempting to confuse people by saying that they executed 100 % and that the previous government only executed 14 %. This is because it confuses annual execution with overall implementation of the Programme and, by comparing the implementation of a year with the overall implementation of the Programme, it is very easy to fight those who are not within the agenda and cannot do a correct analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u283	Mr. João Castro, answering in particular the question he has raised about whether the agriculture sector is better structured and organized to negotiate the next Community support framework, I would like to say that yes, but that will depend much on what you have done to the sector and whether the sector can resist what you have done to it. You have « knife and cheese in your hand », they are government, and so you will be able to define the policies to help the sector keep organized and structured because that is how we left it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u285	Mr Nuno Serra, I now answer your questions, which are, in fact, very relevant. I can only agree with you about the need for an increase in the State budget, the national budget, for the RDP. In fact, this government, as soon as it entered office, withdrew the reprogramming of the RDP, which was being analysed in Brussels, and which increased precisely from 15 % to 20 % the budgetary allocation provided for in the State budget, which would enable it to leverage the Community fund that the PS is very pleased to invest and to say that it leverages but pushes downward rather than « climbs the ladders ». There is only one way to respond to the dynamism that the agricultural sector has shown at the level of investment: to strengthen the RDP with State budget funds. As for the National Regadios Plan, I would like to hear Mr. João Castro speak in the 50 000 ha — only 50 000 ha — of the Alqueva Regadio. This is because the Minister — and it is good to be clear — likes to say that he has 90 000 new ha, but he does not. The Minister took what was planned at the PDR, added 50 000 ha from Alqueva and said he made the National Plan of Regadios with 500 billion euros and 90 000 ha of irrigation. It's good to talk about exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u286	He's got a loan!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u287	All right, Mr. Deputy! It'd be weird if I didn't make it. But first, it was necessary to conclude the work that was being done, before thinking about extending, because it should not be put — using an agricultural term — « the carriage in front of the oxen». So it's better to conclude what you're about to do before you start doing anything else. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u288	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, it is a pleasure to discuss agricultural matters with you, until they clearly show the differences between the PCP and the CDS. Mrs Depute brought the usual discourse of the CDS, which is the speech of the success of agriculture, but the problem of this speech is that she looks at only one part, which is growing, and forgets a whole that is very large, which is the case of family farming, small and medium-sized agriculture, which suffered a lot when the CDS was in government. In addition, the CDS has always refused that there is a status for family farming, for small and medium-sized agriculture, which is so lacking in the interior, as happened with the fires of 2017. She also brought the speech of modern agriculture, forgetting that there are a set of enormous problems associated with the model of development of agriculture, which is not a model of development, is only a model of growth. We are producing more, the country is producing more in a number of areas, but a set of associated problems has arisen. Just go to Beja, Aljustrel, Serpa or Avis, where the PCP recently made its parliamentary journeys, to realize the difficulties and environmental problems that are there installed, as well as the destruction of cultural heritage that is made by agricultural activity and the lack of distribution of wealth that is produced. Unemployment and depopulation have remained in these regions where there is no development of agricultural activity. That is why you cannot say - in fact, I said - but you should not have said it, because it is not correct or correct - that we are silent. The honourable Member does not have to know the visits and meetings that the CFP is making on this subject, but should know the initiatives, which have been presented here in the Assembly of the Republic, on the subject of drought. See, Mrs Deputy, that the CDS has even voted in favour of most of the measures proposed by the CFP. So let us say that we are silent on this matter clearly does not correspond to the truth. On the drought and the problem that is installed, as well as on the issue of irrigation and dams, the perspective of the CDS on this matter is: "We made dams, we have water in the dams, so let agriculture come there," as if there were no more tomorrow, as if we were a country that no longer had water problems, despite having these reservoirs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u290	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u291	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, in order to stimulate the development of the agricultural model, especially that which has been installed in the water perimeters, the CDS agrees that the traditional olive tree, which resists the drought better, is being planted a superintensive olive tree, which is drying up in some places because there is now no water. The CDS stimulates this kind of agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u292	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u293	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we recognize many mistakes and much lack of doing things on the part of this government, but the greatest responsibility we point out is not to go far enough away from those that were the CDS options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u294	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u295	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I have listened very carefully to your political statement — and it is always very important to bring the issue of agriculture and forest to Parliament — but I must tell you, with all sincerity, that I do not look back at most of your statement, until there is a central aspect that separates us from our conception of agriculture. The CDS has a tradition of supporting and defending the interests of agro-industry, monoculture, eucalyptus, rather than defense, even taking into account the problems of drought, small agriculture, multifunctionality of the forest, of all that means diversity in rural territories. In fact, we realize that in recent years — and the government that you have also supported — there has been a concentration of Community funds for large agriculture, large farms, agro-industry and monoculture. However, an essential measure should have been taken to combat this trend, such as the regionalization of the criteria for allocating funds to agriculture, but this measure was never taken, there was never political courage to take it. Madam Member, although I understand the issues you have raised, I cannot help but tell you that in order to face the problems of drought it is necessary to have a strategic vision, which I have never seen on the part of the CDS and the right in Portugal, of adaptation to climate change, agriculture and forest; quite the contrary. In other words, rather than financing and promoting monocultures in the forest, such as eucalyptus, it should have promoted the sureros, chestnut trees and other native trees, because they are, yes, resistant to drought processes, which we know will be increasingly serious in this outlook of climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u296	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u297	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It is enough to look at the situation that we have come precisely in this type of forest, in which there are growing plant health problems and in which there are growing problems with regard to the renewal of the species I have already mentioned. Finally, I must also say that, even with regard to agriculture, rather than monocultures that lack a great amount of water consumption, it is necessary to wager a strategy of technological adaptation for the saving of water, but also of adaptation of new species, and not to continue with the efabulation of irrigation, saying that it will solve the problems of drought. Clearly, it is a contradiction in its own terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u298	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u299	I'm really gonna finish. Mrs Deputies, we have another view for agriculture that is not just about agribusiness and large farms, and we favour small agriculture and family agriculture, small owners, small producers, short circuits, saving water and the environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u300	In reply, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u301	Mr President, I thank Mr Ramos and Mr Soares for their opportunity to explain some matters which, for lack of time, I did not have an opportunity to explain in my initial speech. Mrs. Members, what separates the CDS from the Left Block and the PCP is, in fact, very large. You are tied to the past, to a 50-year-old agriculture of the last century, and you must not have listened carefully to what I said from the rostrum, because what we stand for, and that is what we have consistently done, is that you should support competitive agriculture, but also that which is smaller, which occupies the territory and provides ecosystem services. The great difference — and I have already had the opportunity to say in this plenary more than once — is that you are only defending small agriculture and we understand that there is room for both and that both are important. That's what separates us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u303	Mrs. Members, in fact, I cannot understand this strange way of combating climate change. To combat climate change, instead of watering, will we let cultures die at headquarters and, any day, will Portugal be an extension of the Sara desert? Perhaps I would like to hear from you. Ladies and gentlemen will say...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u304	They called him a desert! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u305	Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! If, instead of defending one agriculture of the last century, you are. Members defended innovation and increased efficiency, perhaps they could come to defend the efficiency of traditional regazios that have very high losses...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u306	Go see the Alqueva olive tree!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u307	Alentejo is not only Alqueva, Mr João Oliveira, and you know that, of course, very well. Mr Soares, I am a defender, such as the CDS, of the surrogate and of the native forest, but, despite the balloon if we can actually eat, we do not feed on bolota and cork and therefore we need more in agriculture in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u308	Our economy feeds on this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u309	Mr. João Ramos, I understand your indignation. You have both defended and fought for the status of small family farming and now... that is, this government, which has used this policy of Robin dos forestes, to draw the elders to distribute to the small ones, even though it has not managed to put enough money in the bags to distribute to farmers, as Mr Minister says.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u310	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u311	Therefore, what Mr Minister has announced to you was a status of small family farming which is so small, so small that it does not serve anyone and is indeed a disappointment to everyone. It is a subsistence agriculture, which has all the relevance, it is necessary, but that is not how Portugal will have a good economic development...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u313	...and that you will manage to balance your commercial balance. That's not how we're going, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are gripped by the past. They have in fact to untie the ties and live in the 21st century. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u314	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the first item on our agenda on political declarations. We move on to the second point, with the joint assessment of petition No 273 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request Portugal to disengage from the Treaty and Amending Protocols to the 1990 Ortographic Agreement and the repeal of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 8 / 2011 ( António Duarte Arnaut et al.) and draft resolution No 1340 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends Portugal's withdrawal from the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, cautioning follow-up and transition measures, a balance sheet report on the implementation of the new Ortographic Agreement of the Portuguese Language and a new negotiation of the bases and terms of a possible Ortographic Agreement ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u315	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the more than 20 000 petitioners, some of whom are present here in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic. On 4 June 1991 the CFP was the only Parliamentary Group which did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the ratification of the Orthographic Agreement. We have made serious criticism of the methodology followed by the Government for the clearance of the bases of the 1990 AO90 ( Ortographic Agreement ). We expressed our concern about the consequences of the Agreement, warning that the process would tend — and I quote — to become an atoll whose dimensions and proportions we do not know about. PCP was right. In fact, the First Amending Protocol came, came the Second, the Agreement continued to be a bad agreement, not to respond to the criticisms made in 1990 by several people and entities. And here we are today. There are incongruences, insufficiency, practical difficulties in the application of the Agreement, visible every day in schools, in the media, in the books, on the official pages of public entities. They were referred to many times in written contributions and hearings by the working groups on this matter. The PCP does not have a fixed design around the spelling. But we value the political and scientific participation, the technical strength of the written standard, the democratity of writing and orality. And these are determining aspects that have not been fully achieved or, some, even taken into account in this process. The existence of any agreement can only make some sense if it is integrated into the more global context of a true language policy. A policy that promotes greater cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries, with deep and intrinsic respect for the cultural identity of each people, which assumes the need to promote and disseminate the book and the Portuguese authors, which reflects on the natural evolution of the language involving all interested. Not because of legislative taxes disconnected from the concrete reality and from the community. The truth is that, after 28 years, there is no commonly accepted, ratified and deposited orthographic agreement by all the countries of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ). There is not even concrete forecast for countries such as Angola or Mozambique. He's missing the foundation. There are those who consider it impossible or counterproductive to go back and correct the mistakes made, because many children and young people have already learned the Ortographic Agreement at school, but there has not been, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, any weight in doing orthographic experimentalism with the students who had to learn. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u316	The overwhelming majority of the population has learned the previous orthographic standard, and that is also why it is not too late to correct a course that leads to a wrong procedure provided that the necessary follow-up measures are taken to those who have learned and to those who use the script of the Agreement. It is preferable to learn from this whole process, study it, exit the Orthographic Agreement and return the discussion - or rather, finally give the discussion - to the scientific and literary community in defining objectives and principles of departure for a new negotiation of the bases and having an orthographic agreement, so be understood their need, among the other CPLP countries. This is the proposal of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u317	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Carlos Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u318	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the more than 20 000 petitioners and I welcome them for their invaluable contribution to the discussion of this matter. I would begin by recalling that the Orthographic Agreement was born of a purpose of defending and valuing the Portuguese language which, over time, gained a nearly widespread political consensus. I believe that this broad consensus essentially remains, i.e., that generic purpose of the countries that share the Portuguese language, to engage in solidarity in its defence and valorization. Nevertheless, and as regards the technical aspects associated with the attempt to standardise spelling, in particular the technical bases of the Ortographic Agreement, and more recently as regards the results of its application, it is known that early the controversy and disagreements began and the growing understanding that this objective of defending the essential unity of the Portuguese language would be illusory. It is therefore not by chance that at the end of the first decade of 2000 the calls for weighting were repeated in a matter which, as Vasco Graza Moura insisted, amongst others, recommended a deep debate, so that all the precautions that national interest imposes should be taken. It was not, however, what happened. at a time when caution and debate were recommended, a resolution of the Council of Ministers of January 2011 determined the application of the Orthographic Agreement, i.e. its entry into force. History has since been known: the Agreement is in force in the educational system, school textbooks have been adapted to the new spelling, on the other hand the Agreement has not been ratified by half of the countries that have subscribed to it, instead of uniformization seem to accentuate the problems of orthographic instability. The author herself of the Technical Bases of the Agreement, i.e. the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, a consultative body of the Portuguese Government in linguistic matters— she has recently considered the discussion to be unsuited for, and already in 2017 presented a document with suggestions for the improvement of the Agreement. We therefore understand that there is much to discuss and therefore we find the attitude of the honourable Members to be incomprehensible and unacceptable. Ministers for Culture and Education refused to respond to the request for information by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport in the context of the preparation of the petition report under discussion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u319	Therefore, there is much to discuss and therefore we have proposed the establishment of a working group, currently in operation within the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, which will allow us, in the short term, to have a detailed point of view on the effects of the implementation of the Agreement and, therefore, weighted assessments, supported by arguments which, in essence, can only be of a technical and scientific nature. That is also why we find the draft resolution now presented by the Portuguese Communist Party extemporaneous. In conclusion, we do not abandon the understanding that all efforts to involve the countries that share this common language with us are justified in terms of their defence and valorisation; we do not know what we are all required to weigh and hold responsibility in this area at various levels, sensitive. But we also do not want, as the position of the Government and the Socialist Party has been, to realize that there is nothing to discuss when, in fact, there is an elephant sitting in the middle of the room. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u320	Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by welcoming the petitioners, in particular by acting in accordance with a cause they believe in. The principles that led to the establishment of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement remain relevant to the Socialist Party. A convergence effort of seven Portuguese-speaking countries, to which Timor-Leste was fortunately added, in order to give our common language the unity possible at the level of writing, a cohesion that would allow all the CPLP Member States to defend and design in the present as much as in the future the Portuguese language as an identity language of a common culture that has always been and is, increasing their international weight and eliminating a trend that existed, for the distance between the two aspects of the official language, which was decreasing overall the value of the Portuguese language. It is also important to stress the relevance to literacy — facilitating the learning of writing and reading in the vast framework of the Portuguese speakers of the CPLP, for which the Ortographic Agreement contributes. I believe it is always useful to reaffirm that the Agreement affects the spelling of the Portuguese language and not the grammar of the varieties of Portuguese spoken by the world, which are not and can never be altered by an orthographic reform. The evolution of orthographic reforms during the 20th century, even in the simple internal and national sphere, has always been distressed and causing strangeness and understandable rejections to some standards to be adopted. It was also a reason for generational divisions between those who learn from the new spelling and those who remain faithful to previous standards. From that point of view, we disagree with the notions expressed in the text of the petition, from the alleged unconstitutionality of the Agreement to the notion that the convention governing writing limits the natural creativity of the Portuguese language. Now, the chronicles of Fernão Lopes, the poems in Portuguese of the General singer compiled by Garcia de Resende, the rhymes of Bocage or the prose of Eça de Queiroz do not lose the cultural and literary quality due to the successive updates of the spelling to which they were subject by the various orthographic reforms from 1911 until today. In short, what the petitioners ask the Assembly of the Republic, and to which the Portuguese Communist Party gives a decisive initiative, is the disunculation of Portugal from the Ortographic Agreement, which is the same as the denunciation or withdrawal of the Country of this international treaty. For the PS Parliamentary Group, no step in this direction can be understood as positive or desirable for national and luxophone interests. This does not mean that the rules contained in the 1990 Ortographic Agreement and subsequent amending protocols are immune to criticism, disagreement or improvement. The Socialist Party participates in the Working Group set up in the Assembly of the Republic to assess the impact of the application of the Orthographic Agreement, which has been carefully discussed on these matters. However, in order to resolve differences, it was designed to be the head office defined in the text of the Treaty, in particular the International Institute of the Portuguese Language (ILP), which is certainly available for the debate to be conducted by linguists and academic specialists, with the rigor and scientific criteria that this matter requires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u322	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u323	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming and complimenting the petitioners for this petition which they present today to the Assembly of the Republic. from the CDS, we do not hinder the claim, that somehow we have arrived, from this petition can be discussed later, even for reasons that will hear in the speech that I would like to make on behalf of the CDS. After 28 years on the signing of the Orthographic Agreement, there is still disagreement, much doubt and some confusion. The evidence, if not enough for the thousands of people who subscribe to this petition, is in the errors that are daily in the written press or in official documents and in the intense academic debate and civil society in general which, after all these years, survive. More: last year, the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon approved a document entitled Suggestions for the improvement of the Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement, which proposes the return of silent consonants, of graphic accents in some words, of circumflex accent in others, as well as of hyphen. In our view, it is well an example of the somewhat unprepared way in which this Agreement was made. We can, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have already said, don't discuss this? Can we say that the matter is definitely closed? Can we close our eyes to all these criticisms and to the practice that does not practice this Agreement? Don't we have a duty to listen to these doubts? Of course, we have a duty to discuss, discuss and understand all these questions and all these doubts, especially since last year in the city of Praia, the Common Spell Vocabulary was finally presented, which, according to the preamble to the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, would have to be drawn up until 1 January 1993 — ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This proves a whole set of uncertainties and impreparation that, in our view, make this matter a subject with great implications in language, education, international relations in Portugal — it is true! — and that clearly divides rather than that which should be its objective, which was to unite. For these reasons, the CDS advocated the establishment of a Working Group on the Impact of the Application of the 1990 Orthographic Agreement, whose work, I stress, still takes place...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u324	There was already one in the previous legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u325	... that will make the point of application which has been carried out under the Orthographic Agreement and assess the degree of achievement of the objectives to be achieved. This, in our view, is a job that has been serious, which is serious and on a matter that is also serious. Hearing people, entities, institutions and viewpoints was exactly what failed before the signatures of treaties and protocols. at this time, we expect this Working Group, which has heard these entities and these people, to conclude its work and draw up a final report where we can find the best conclusions not only on what to do with this Agreement, which clearly seems to disagree but also on ways, by defending the national interest, by fighting for the international relations of Portugal and by the word given by Portugal, we can still defend the interests and practice of all Portuguese, which is manifestly contrary to this Agreement, in these terms. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u326	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the petitioners and thanking the questions raised about the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. We are well aware of the complexity of these matters and the disputes about them. It's not a new situation. We will say that there has always been a fundamental disagreement between those who favour phonetic criteria and those who defend the etymological criteria. I recall that the first orthographic reform understood as such reports to the Republic, since then there were two spellings, one from Portugal, one from Brazil. After several attempts at unification, only one common denominator was found in 1945, that is, many years later. Still, that orthographic convention failed. It would be necessary to wait another 45 years for the 1990 Agreement, which, as everyone sees it, is not perfect. From then on, and for 28 years, the process has known various episodes and so many other attacks, and the Assembly of the Republic has come to conduct, within its functions, the competent scrutiny of the implementation of the Agreement. For this purpose, in the previous legislation, and on a proposal from the CFP, a working group was formed, the same as in the current Legislature, on a proposal from the PSD and I believe also from the CDS. In both cases numerous hearings were held and dozens of contributions were collected that are public and are patented on Parliament's website. And, of course, these testimonies and these hearings transcend the existing divergences. The current Working Group — it is good to strengthen it — is continuing its work at this time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition now under discussion requires the release of the Portuguese Republic of the Treaty on the Orthographic Agreement. The Left Block Parliamentary Group recognises the legitimacy of the concerns expressed but does not refer to the argumentary and much less to the claim of disengagement of the Agreement. It is important to recognize that there is a path done, good or bad, but there is an impact on various areas, including education and social communication. More: the Common Orthographic Vocabulary, the VOC, is completed and can be consulted on the page of the International Institute of Portuguese Language, the ILP, based in Cape Verde, as well as on the page of the Community of the Portuguese Language Countries ( CPLP ). It is in this context that the CFP presents by drag a draft resolution recommending Portugal's withdrawal from the Orthographic Agreement. The proposal from the CFP, despite cautioning follow-up and transition measures, entails, in our view, risks of varying order, and can from then on call into question international treaties and impose, at another level, the development of new curricula and school textbooks once again. We therefore do not follow the proposal from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u328	That argument is false!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u329	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u330	I shall conclude, Mr President, if you will allow me and give me only one more minute. The Left Block does not have an immobilist position on the Orthographic Agreement. In addition, already in the previous legislature, he presented a draft resolution with a view to reviewing technical aspects, with the aim of improving. That is what he will continue to do in due time, even because our language, according to its living and dynamic nature, requires it. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u331	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't tell anyone that I gave Mr Jorge Campos another minute. [[Laughing.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, to give us an account of some initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 781 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code, recognizing the possibility of mutual waiver of the status of legal heir to the Convention ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1350 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2017 for the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1351 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February approving the structure and competence of the services of the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-21.u333	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m. and there are nine points in the agenda. First of all, we will conduct a current debate required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on internal security. Secondly, we will generally consider Bill No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 65 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 1034, the European Parliament and the Council, and Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 593. We shall then proceed to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1212 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an agri-food scientific committee ( PSD ), 1334 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for valuing Portuguese agri-food ( CDS-PP ), 1337 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen research, experimentation, support, monitoring and agricultural advice ( CFP ) and 1341 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an eco-agri-food scientific committee ( NAP ). Fourthly, we will appreciate draft resolution No 1266 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the termination of the Universal Postal Service contract by notifying CTT — Correios de Portugal, SA, of serious non-compliance ( BE ), together with in general draft law No 780 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of CTTs ( CCPs ) and with draft resolution No 1342 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reversion of privatisation of TTC(The Greens ). Fifthly, we will generally appreciate Bill No. 743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the Tax Authority ( CDS-PP ). Next, we will also, in general, appreciate Bill No. 591 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the application of the EPAL Business Agreement to all employees of companies established under Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March ( PCP ). In seventh place, we will assess jointly, in general, the projects of lein.o 542 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to sickness or occupational accident ( The Greens ), 613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renews the right of civil servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases ( BE) and 779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recomposes the possibility of the accumulation of permanent disability benefits with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the employee's overall earning capacity ( CFP ). Finally, draft resolution No 1351/ XIII ( 3 ) is scheduled without time for discussion. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February approving the structure and competence of the services of the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ). I would like to draw the attention of the Members and the Members. Members for which the last item on the agenda is a legislative vote. Tomorrow, Thursday, exceptionally, there will be regiment votes at the end of the debate. Nothing else to deal with, the session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 16 minutes.]]
