ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start this session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, Bill No 139 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Counter-Terrorism Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, which falls to 1. the Commission ; draft law No 934 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prohibits the State from resorting to arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters ( PCP ), which is lower than 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1748 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends support to the Government for farmers affected by the weather in the northern and central regions of the country ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u3	We can then start the debate on territorial inequalities and decentralization, a PSD marking under Article 64. the Rules of Procedure, and the discussion, in general, and any vote at the end of the debate, of Bill No. 890 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates an independent decentralization committee ( PS and PSD ). Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to present the PSD's position on this subject and on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has recently made its parliamentary work in the Guard with the theme « affirmation and appreciation of the interior ». The choice of the place, well within Portugal, and of the topic mentioned were a political option. The interior, the low-density territories, the convergence regions deserve much more. They deserve further political work and therefore we believe that this debate must continue. It is a debate that deserves to be deepened. Government failures should be reported, but proposals and initiatives should also be submitted that definitely bet on the most fragile regions. That is why we are bringing this issue back to debate. Territorial inequalities must be minimised. I am elected by Évora, in the Alentejo, and I can easily give my testimony. Just give some easy examples to understand : get out of the Algarve a car of patients to Lisbon, divert your route and go to Évora to look for more sick, also passing through Portalegre to go look for more sick.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u5	Only what he spends on ISP is on top of a scumbag!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u6	When the transport ambulance is fully filled, it follows directly to Lisbon. It is as if it were a "load", a human burden. Yes, this is too serious to be true! It's even more serious because we're talking about cancer patients. Hours and hours of travel for severely weakened patients. This is the sad reality that our people live. This is a current reality, not the time of the troika. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you feel about these Portuguese being abused in this way? Many of them don't say anything. Many of them keep quiet, they just hide cries of soul. Crys of soul abated by indifference. How are health centers justified where it rains in there? How is it justified that dozens of health posts and extensions are in strong degeneration in many of the territories of the interior of our Portugal, many of them abandoned? Oh, my God! Can anyone explain this degradation when there are significant amounts in regional operational programmes to solve these problems? Yes, it is the cry of the souls of our people who feel it. How is it justified that a region like Alentejo, which represents about 1 / 3 of the national territory, does not have an orthopedist in the national health system? How is it justified that there are almost no gynecologists, anesthetists and other specialties throughout Portugal? in this way Portugal is not met! How are waiting hours justified by our elders to be cared for by a family doctor who does not always appear? It's this Portugal we're talking about. It's this Portugal that we've been talking about. How is it justified to close the post offices of the CTTs in Viana do Alentejo, Alvito, Vidigueira and Barrancos, where there is no more within a radius of 30 km? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Barrancos is well in a deep Portugal cantinho! What is the solution for the public mail service to be fulfilled, too, for these Portuguese? These are the same Portuguese who have already lost the career truck, who have lost the General Deposit Box counter, who have lost the school of their childhood, who have lost how little they had there. [[Protests of PS Members.]] No, we are not talking about the bankruptcy period, neither the memorandum period, nor the troika period. We are talking about « now ». So Portugal is not met. How is it explained that the Community funds planned and budgeted for social equipment are not used? How can it be explained that the planned and budgeted Community funds are not used for business reception areas, but also for scientific and technological infrastructures? Why are the funds of the operational programmes of the convergence regions not applied and have a zero implementation rate? These are critical areas for the development of the interior. Why are we not taking advantage of these funds for the weaker regions? The coast has nothing to gain with a country like this, with such an unequal country, so unbalanced. We need to change. We need to change radically and quickly. And I need to refuse Lampedusa's maximum to change something so it's all the same. It is necessary to change strongly! It is essential that we implement an internal pact. Making a pact around the inside is a duty. Proposals such as those submitted by the Movement for the Interior can be fundamental to changing reality. Materials such as taxation, deconcentration of services, infrastructure in the interior, companies in the interior are decisive to change the existing paradigm. That's what we believe in! Now, this is only done with an agenda, with a well-defined timetable. With action! And it is in this perspective that the PSD is co-author of this bill, which creates the independent commission for decentralisation, which represents the political will to strengthen the need for greater democratic legitimacy of bodies closer to the citizens, involving, inter alia, the reorganization of the decentralised services of the State, ensuring territorial coherence and extending the network of public services of proximity. Thus, through this initiative, it confers itself on the constitution of this committee, which will have mandate until July 2019 and which will be composed of six personalities and a coordinator of recognized scientific competence and merit, chosen and designated by the Assembly of the Republic. Its mission shall be to carry out a thorough assessment of the organization and functions of the State, and shall also evaluate and propose a programme of deconcentration of the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State in the territory, assessing own resources and means to be transferred. It is also intended to ensure an auscultation and debate programme with regional entities, in particular the metropolitan areas, the CIM ( intermunicipal communities), the coordination committees, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). The studies to be submitted and the hearing programme should culminate in the presentation by the independent committee for the decentralisation by July 2019 of preliminary drafts and programmes that will be referenced to subsequent legislative initiatives that are necessary. We believe that this will be one of the ways that can help to change structurally Portugal. It was with responsibility and mission spirit that the PSD was involved in this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u7	The Bureau recorded three entries for requests for clarification from the Members. Deputies Santinho Pacheco, João Vasconcelos and Paula Santos. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u9	Therefore, to make requests for clarification, Mr. Santinho Pacheco has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u10	Mr President, Mr Costa Silva, I took note of the words of regret which, in the representation of the PSD, used to describe the shortcomings of the interior, particularly of those who know them well because it spent several years by the government and to no answer and solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State, through successive governments and central administration, has never been able to respond effectively to the country's tendency of coastalization, in which everything happens in a restricted range of the territory. Only with well-designed and implemented public policies that enhance investment will it be possible to remove the interior of the slow death to which it has been condemned. But public policies, how? What is the outcome that democracy and our constitutional system have to offer us? It's not worth running away. A country like ours, with the old vices of centralism, which protect the most populous and electorally more desirable areas, to the detriment of the most impoverished areas, urgently needs administrative reform. Decentralisation is a good start, a good intermediate situation for a regionalisation that we all defend. Where are the differences, asymmetries, between the coast and the interior, and there are even areas in which there is comparative advantage for the interior territories? in the implementation of the powers and powers of the authorities. This is where the difference is accentuated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u12	... in relation to basic infrastructures, quality of life, culture and environment. The more power and competences the authorities have, with their financial means, the greater the regional level between the coast and the interior. The establishment of an independent committee for decentralization, with the task of carrying out a thorough assessment of the organization and functions of the State, on the deconcentration and location of entities and services, on a coherent presence of the State in the territory, demonstrates caution and good faith by the promoters of this legislative initiative, but is also a clear sign of the non-governmentalization of the process of decentralization. Decentralizing is not, cannot be, a business between municipalities, the parish and the government, a collection of funds and competences. All those who surrender to unilateral positions of any of the partners or those who condition their position to the understanding of third parties are wrong. What matters are the citizens and the interests of the people, who are in a better position to serve the public in a logic of proximity and cost/benefit. Either decentralization is good for citizenship or it's no use! Or better respond to problems, or bad for bad, before that. I end with a question to the PSD and Mr Costa Silva. [[Finally!]] Does the PSD view the approval of this decentralization package as a way to achieve the constitutional design of regionalization? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u13	Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u14	Mr President, Mr Costa Silva, the PSD has addressed to this debate the issue of territorial inequalities and decentralization. In other words, the PSD seeks to give public opinion that it is in favour of combating territorial inequalities and its solution to all these inequalities is the presentation of a bill, signed together with the Socialist Party, for the creation of an independent committee for decentralization. Take a good look: this is the great miracle, the magic wand with which these two parties presented us to end territorial inequalities. But is the PSD even concerned about territorial inequalities, which continue to persist in our country? It is that one thing is what is promised, another thing is the practical actions of when you were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u16	What did the PSD do when it was related to the CDS in the previous government? It violently aggravated, without looking at means, these territorial inequalities, for example, by extinguishing, the ruler and the frame, more than a thousand parishioners at national level,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u18	... against the people, against the authorities of this country, which led to an unbearable worsening of their living conditions and reduced tens of millions of euros to the authorities under the Local Finance Act, which cut and cancelled investment, which made life difficult for people, which aggravated territorial, social, cultural and economic inequalities. The PSD, in fact, does not have a little bit of shame on his face and forgets to say what he did in this area when he was in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u19	That's not appropriate language! You're in Parliament, you're not on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u20	It is appropriate to say: « Good preaching friar Thomas, do as he says, but do not do as he does. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u21	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u22	As for the independent committee for decentralization, a kind of premature birth born of the incestuous relationship between PSD and PS, nor the Constitution these parties want to comply. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The Constitution is very clear about the principles of decentralization of competences: it must be made for municipalities, municipalities, parish and regions, i.e., organs elected directly by the population. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] And here we have a fundamental problem, which is the issue of regionalization, on which nothing is said, not a word. They want to kill this regionalisation at once! Is that what you're talking about? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't count on the Block for this petition. We are indeed in favour of decentralization of competences, as the Constitution of the Republic advocates, but there are fundamental issues that we do not abdicate. The transfer of universal competences and services, such as health and education, when done, will inevitably degrade these services. We know that, for many millions who have, many of the municipalities have no scale, they have no size and will always say that they have no means, they have no human, technical, financial resources, which will lead to the outsourcing of services, the granting and privatization of services, which will effectively only degrade these same services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u24	Therefore, this independent committee for decentralization will no longer be a facet to kill or definitely postpone regionalization and to strengthen inter-municipal communities and regional coordination committees, which are not directly elected by the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u26	I ask you, Mr António Costa Silva: is the PSD in favour of regionalization or not? Is it in favour of the creation of these administrative regions? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u27	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa Silva, first of all, records on his intervention which, despite the issue of territorial inequalities and decentralisation, has little to say - as it is designated - the process of decentralization under way, on which the PSD has already agreed with the Government, and which has also sought to mark the agenda of its former partner of coalition, the CDS, which organised a debate on the development of the interior for Friday. I also record on the speech made by the honourable Member with a set of references to specific problems in access to health which persist in a number of regions but which have been greatly aggravated by the Government of the Member, the PSD / CDS. During its governance, what we saw was not the non-emergency transport assignment to the patients who needed it, it was its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u30	And there were patients who no longer have access to health care exactly because their government did not assign them the same transport. What we saw was the closure of schools, the closure of services and valences in the area of health, tolls in the ex-SCUT, took off—see! — a set of public services in the various regions and in the various localities and even the parish have died out! [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] And now they come to talk about development, about concerns about the interior, about proximity, when all they did was worsen the lives of those populations...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u33	...and contribute to the desertification and depopulation of our country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u35	Mr President, I would like to ask you questions about the agreement between the PSD and the Government, for which there seems to be some inconvenience. It is that the PSD will now give the PS a hand to the government to do what it could not do, and therefore the PSD, even without the guarantee of the conditions for the transfer of competences to the authorities, will give that same agreement. But on this matter he did not mention anything. Question : Are PSD Members comfortable with the proposed amendment of the Local Finance Act to maintain the non-compliance of this Act for another three years? Are they comfortable to agree to an increase of EUR 24 million in VAT revenue (value added tax), which will contribute even more to regional asymmetries? It's just -- look! — give one hand and take the next because these funds will no longer form part of the basis of the incidence of the calculation for the financial balance fund, which would be distributed to all municipalities. The PSD is responsible for attacking the social functions of the State by not guaranteeing its universality and by wanting to share education policy, health policy, cultural policy by 308 municipalities with 308 policies, not guaranteeing this same universality and penalizing the populations, because this will be the result of wanting to transfer skills without having the means to deal with the problems that are on the table to solve them. This will be a responsibility of PS and PSD if they move forward with this process—above it in a 15-day perspective. Do you want to talk about seriousness, responsibility and then, within 15 days, you want to close a process with this dimension and nature, with questions from the point of view of the financial regime of local authorities? In fact, it is clear what are the objectives that are present in this area. What is on the table is, in fact, the penalization of the populations, questioning the public services and the social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u36	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u37	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me. Mr. Santinho Pacheco, I don't understand the part you haven't noticed. We're talking about the present time, we're not talking about the troika. Those problems of the interior are now difficulties that you feel now and that we objectively want to help resolve, because the interior does not deserve to be mistreated. It is for the Portuguese, our people, that we are involved in this project. Mrs. Members, many of you have spoken about the issue of regionalisation. We have a project on the table—we are discussing it today—in which the whole discussion is open, and we are going to have it from here to the front.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u38	What is the PSD position?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u39	A commission will be set up specifically to study all possibilities and each one will discuss how and how to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u40	What is the PSD position?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u41	Mr. João Vasconcelos, I want to say that we, in order to speak of our people, of the Portuguese, do not need bombs, just speak with the heart and soul, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u43	You know something that's curious? Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said that the management solution gained a place in the hearts of the Portuguese. So rest, don't be jealous, that we have no concerns in this matter. Mrs Paula Santos, you will certainly be concerned about the few chambers of the CFP — that will certainly be so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u44	Look at the level of this argumentary! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u45	We have already had a long debate on this subject, months of hearings by dozens of entities, I do not know what the CFP wants to discuss further. We have to decide, we have to act, that's our responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u46	The Bureau is waiting for Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. There are several parties that have not yet intervened, one of which is with the representative of the proposal under discussion. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group was registered for intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u47	So the CDS is gonna ruin this and get in the middle? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u48	Who's the child's father after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, once again, to discuss an initiative in the field of decentralization. When, on 14 June, we discussed initiatives related to local finance, in particular the Government's proposed amendment to the current Local Finance Act, the CDS presented a wide range of criticisms related to how the Government conducted the process of decentralization of competence for municipalities and then with the options set out in the text of the proposed Local Finance Act. Yes, it is true that, despite a path initiated by the former Government to strengthen the powers of local authorities, Portugal is still one of the most centralist countries in central power. Yes, there is a broad consensus as to the need to strengthen the competences of local authorities in areas as essential as health, education, school transport, civil protection, the valorization and dignity of educational equipment and many others, favouring quality and proximity to citizens. however, as several entities that were heard in the working group created to deal with the topic of decentralization, in the Local Power Commission, emphasized, caution is required and studies, comparative analyses and a deep assessment of the role and competence of both local and central power are necessary. I would like to repeat the words of the President of the Metropolitan Council of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, who said on this reform that — and I quote — "it is better to take a little longer, in a more consistent and more studied way, than to try to do in a year what other countries have taken 40 years to do". Now, it's been a year on these statements. It is true that the Government has already entered into this House with a proposal to amend the Local Finance Act, but it has been able to deserve several criticisms from the various political parties, with the exception of the Socialist Party. It is true that it is up to this House to approve either the framework law on the transfer of competences or amendments to the Local Finance Act, but it is obvious that the initial work, studies, estimates, objective data, all this, must be developed and delivered by the Government and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that didn't happen. Here we are now discussing, in particular, a draft law, presented by the PSD and PS, which provides for the establishment of an independent committee for decentralization. This initiative follows an agreement between the PSD and the Government on this subject. The committee to be set up will have as its task "to carry out a thorough independent evaluation of the organisation and functions of the State" at regional, metropolitan and intermunicipal levels, also seeking "to ensure a programme of auscultation and public debates with regional entities, in particular the metropolitan areas, the intermunicipal communities, the regional coordination and development committees, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the deep assessment of the organization and functions of the State and the auscultation and debate with all regional and municipal entities should have been based on this whole process of decentralization. You cannot start building the house on the roof and you cannot want to move forward with such a reform, where the provision of basic services is at stake to the people, without, in fact, making that deep assessment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Over 15 months have passed since the government's proposal for decentralization was presented, dozens of entities have been heard. The Government has been insisting for one year that it is the Assembly of the Republic that is delaying the process of decentralisation, because it refuses to adopt a reform which is unknown, either in the assumptions or in the principles, or in the consequences, in particular financial. And, at the end of this whole time, a proposal for the establishment of a committee is put forward to make the Government's in-depth assessment before even presenting the proposal for a framework law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will not vote against the establishment of this independent committee, but we regret once again how the whole process of decentralization has been conducted. Since the beginning of the functions that the Government has been proclaiming that decentralization is its cornerstone of action, it is its priority. After three years and only one year of the end of the Legislature, we will only now begin to study, evaluate and analyze the implications of this process. For this reason, it is with great concern that the CDS and the Portuguese find that, with regard to decentralization, this legislation, the legislation of the Government of the Socialist Party, was a lost legislature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u50	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions. Although time is still available, no parliamentary group has made any registration. There is a very fast way for the Bureau to respond to these situations, so I don't know if any parliamentary group would prefer to avoid this formula. The PSD and CDS have already intervened but I remember that at the end of the debate we will vote on a project presented by PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u51	Mr President, I'm sorry, I want to sign up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u52	You have the floor, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we can say with absolute certainty that territorial and regional development is generated by human capital and education. Thus, the wager in knowledge, in adult education, with Qualifica ( 75 centres in 57 municipalities of the interior), in the collection of students for higher education in the interior, through the increase of 5% vacancies, in the valorization of polytechnics, with more than 12 000 students enrolled in professional higher technical courses taught exclusively in these establishments, together with more innovation and science in three collaborative laboratories, operating within, will surely lead to more competitiveness and differentiation. It has been noted in terms of Portugal 2020 that per capita support in low-density territories exceeds those in the coast ( 25 % above the percentage of population in them resident ). Particularly relevant is the positive discrimination achieved in the area of sustainability, with POSEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) in human capital, social inclusion and employment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Programme for Territorial Cohesion (PNCT), which has an execution of 75 %, has fulfilled 122 of its horizontal measures, in areas ranging from justice, with the reopening of 20 courts, to modernization, with the opening of 215 citizen spaces, as well as to health, where 150 vacancies were created, completely filled, for doctors in the interior. This programme is now under review. In the course of this month, we will soon be aware of the new measures aimed at responding to the new challenges and socio-economic realities, which are now different from the context in which the Programme was developed, and which also took into account the contributions of civil society, in particular the Movement for the Interior, and the guidelines included in the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme ( PNPOT). This is the right time, because we are negotiating the Plurianual Financial Framework and designing the Structural Funds, where we defend that the post-2020 cohesion policy should strengthen its orientation for the promotion of the competitiveness of the economy and territories, in a path of continuing real convergence. The fight against all social inequalities, which allowed 360 000 people to withdraw from the poverty line, the creation of thousands of jobs, also inside, and the inversion of territorial inequalities have indeed been a political priority of the Socialist Party, as evidenced by the reprogramming of the territorial base funds, with a growth exceeding the 600 million euros, or the recent BEM Programme — Benefit of Municipal Equipment, to the interior, together with the structural investments made at the level of the National Regadios Programme, as we can see in our days at the Lower Alentejo, in which Alqueva and its future expansion, which enhances new cultures and opportunities, well represent the strategic vision of socialist governance, in which we can see, at all, the contacts and the people visited. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The combination of the reform of decentralization with the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion and the National Investment Programme converges for a change of vision over the whole of the country and opens the windows of a new ambition and enhancement of local power, which is in a position to know, in depth, the asymmetries and social needs, as well as the local political needs and the aspirations of people. The local power history speaks for itself, either in its economic and financial performance, with successive positive balances (the local sector only in 2017, generated a balance of 460 million that contributed to the reduction of deficit by 3 tenths of GDP ), either in the responses generated over the years, or more recently in the context of the migration crisis, by associating itself with the reception of more than 1600 refugees who have been redistributed by about 100 municipalities from north to south of the country, confirming the solidarity that is in their DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid ). We know that only a more decentralized state could reverse the crystallization of inequalities that centralism can power and compromise the process of balanced development of the various territories. We are also aware that only by conferring new powers, human and financial resources from the central power, but also from the municipalities, assigning to the latter the role of managers of all public policies with local impact and imbued with transversality, is that we will change the paradigm of Portugal historically centralist and unequal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposals for a framework law on the transfer of competences to the authorities and the revision of the law on local finances and, as required, it is already the knowledge of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and Parliament, the financial impact of the reform, by municipalities and by areas to be transferred, so it is urgent to continue the way, because time never waits for us. We are, as it is evident, in the face of a structural process initiated in 2016, which required ongoing dialogue, thematic working groups between the Government and the Portuguese municipalities, seeking permanent convergence with ANMP, which yesterday approved by a large majority an important and constructive opinion on both diplomas, giving their agreement and confidence to this whole process and to the ongoing parliamentary work,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in a sign of reforming will clothed in the future, by this indisputable 'house of local power' which are the Portuguese municipalities. This articulation was also constant with the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias) and also generated, and well, extended agreements, because we are facing matters that go beyond the Legislation. Through Bill No. 890 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), which integrates this power schedule, we added one more piece to this relevant reforming process, conferring itself on the constitution of an independent committee which will lead us to a second phase of deeper decentralization, and which should carry out a thorough evaluation of the organization and functions of the State, and must also evaluate and propose a programme of deconcentration of the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State in the territory. A committee which can open doors and can be a deeper way in terms of regions. This reform, by being put at the service of sustainable development, will undoubtedly be the paradigm change that was expected and an engine of cohesion and of combating territorial inequalities. Thus, for a more equal Portugal, we must reach the heart of democracy, which, over 40 years ago, dwells in this deeply democratic place than wants more decentralization to further public needs and fair collective aspirations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This place, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is called local power, the place of ideas that dream, transform and make us move forward, and where no one is left behind, because it is a place of April! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u54	Madam Member, you have signed up to request clarification from the honourable Members. Deputies João Vasconcelos, Hélder Amaral and Manuel Frexes. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u55	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u56	All right, Mrs. Deputy. So to make the first request for clarification, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u57	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, as you know, the Constitution of the Republic has for more than 40 years advocated the decentralization of powers to the authorities, bodies directly elected by the people, but the governments of the PS, the PS, and the CDS, all these years have failed to comply with that desire. We are now facing a situation in which the PS, supported by a left parliamentary majority, literally sends these parties to the Urticas and makes a regime agreement, typical of the central block, with the PSD. Even worse: it is subject to all the demands that the PSD was defending! That is why the PSD now has a more accurate, more peaceful tone in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I said recently, the Left Block is not available for the State to dispense with important social functions, and that is what will lead this process not to decentralization but rather to municipalization of competences in fundamental areas such as health and education. On the other hand, and there are voices that have claimed it, this will make schools and teachers lose pedagogical autonomy and professional autonomy. Finally, Mrs Deputy, I ask you one question: what justification does the PS have to give to the country, by joining the PSD in this matter, whose history, in terms of inequalities, has a very black spot? Oh, my God! More: can the honourable Member ensure that this process of transfer of competence will not in fact lead to the loss of pedagogical and professional autonomy of both teachers and schools? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u58	To request clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I do not resist being supportive of the sufferings of the left-wing parties of the Socialist Party, for they have lived with three wishes: the first is that the PS never deceives them; the second is that if they deceive them, they do not know; and the third is that if they know, they do not care, so that this can continue everything as it is. But sometimes the old loves are very strong and the central block loves are very strong. We're facing one of these episodes today. Mrs Susana Amador, after 2006, after so much interest in decentralization — constitutional precept, it is true, although I understand that it really matters to have good governments, governments that govern and be competent, that they act, be diligent, and not exactly the distance they are,, a matter so studied and so central in the governance of the Socialist Party, and even envying their partners, I heard Mrs Susana Amador, today, say here: "Well, our idea is not only to create an independent committee, it is to penalise in the independent committee the set of proposals and ideas that we have already decided, the result of long hearings". What effective skills do they go to the parish board? What effective competences do the CCDRs ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees )? What effective competences are passed to the supramunicipal, whether they are simple or other realities? What competences are there for the municipalities themselves and what control mechanisms will the assemblies and municipal assemblies have to control these powers? On this matter, you made a philosophical, emotional speech, appealed to April, but we remained exactly the same. Nor did he make an assessment of what is in the central bloc agreement, for example, and allow me to read, when he says that « Interadministrative contracts are kept in force (...) ». Keep but then decentralize? Oh, my God! ... in the same areas or in different areas? What has been their assessment of the ongoing process? What bases are you going to change now? In fact, Mrs Deputies, it was very little and I would like you to tell us more, because, as you must calculate, these matters even have to do with what the CDS has done, and well, and that is going to discuss next week. One thing is public policies to help companies and families to look inside, solving the generic problem of demography that our country has, and that can be enhanced, complemented or even improved with decentralization policies, another thing is the competences of the parish and municipalities and the financial envelope. Mrs. Deputy, having competences that are generic and equal to all municipalities, will agree with me that not all municipalities are equal. There are municipalities that have technical capacity, human, dimension, critical mass, and there are others that do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u60	These are good questions for PSD too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u61	These powers may or may not further exacerbate the lack of territorial cohesion, which we want to avoid? I think they can make these issues worse. This is indeed a very relevant matter, because it can define the country we want for the next decade. And it seems short to me that, above all, the government and its partners are in bad shape, angry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u62	Is that for the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u63	It's for everyone less for the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u64	... and have not participated effectively in this debate, in order to be here today, with something more concrete and plausible and we can say: "Well, we have done an evaluation of the pilot projects on the ground, we have made an evaluation of the inter-administrative contracts, we have made an assessment of the size of the municipalities, we have made an evaluation of the financial package and, after all, we have a mission for the independent committee." And on this subject, I even realize that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities says 10 % is a success, but it is a success with the current skills, because, if it is to add new skills, I already have doubts whether it will be a success or a failure. So none of this has been clarified, none of this has been clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u65	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. I, who would like to be able to contribute to the debate, am trying to guess the matter, because, in fact, the debate brought little, little ideas and it is very difficult to participate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u67	Mr Manuel Frexes, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u68	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, with due respect, I should like to say that she continues with the rhetoric of the harsh and pious measures intended to resolve the deep territorial inequalities. The intervention here made, a narrative of a romantic character, helps, above all, to anesthetize the problem rather than help solve it, because reality is far more dramatic. You know, Mrs. Deputy, I come from a district, the district of Castelo Branco, where regional asymmetries and inequalities of opportunities have become more felt, preventing balanced and sustained economic and social development. Unfortunately, three municipalities in my district occupy the first three places in the municipalities most affected by the depopulation and ageing of the population. They are Penamacor, Old Village of Rhodão and Idanha-a-Nova. These municipalities have lost, in recent decades, about half of their population and, if nothing is done, they will lose more than half of the remaining population by 2040. As if this were not enough, population ageing is another consequence of the depopulation of these municipalities. To give an idea, the ratio of elderly people to young people, for example, in Vila Velha de Rhodão, is about 800 for about 100 young people. The population density in these municipalities is about 7 inhabitants per square kilometer, when in Lisbon, Amadora and Odivelas is more than 7000 inhabitants per square kilometer, i.e. 1000 times higher. It is appropriate to ask, Mrs Member : what future for these councils? What is the future for the vast territories of the interior? What's the future for Portugal? It happens that Portugal is full of diagnoses, evaluations, studies and observatories, questions, interpelations and, above all, mission units for the appreciation of the interior, which were a failure and did nothing for our country. There has been a tragedy of unimaginable proportions — the fires of last year, which, historically, will always be linked to the current government — to reveal another tragedy, this one, silent, profound, growing and causing devastating effects, which is the abandonment of our territory, the abandonment of the interior. Mrs Deputy, Portugal needs an action plan rather than a mission unit. Today, as I said, the country demands actions and solutions. Portugal needs effective and radical measures, rather than rough and erratic measures and, above all, rhetoric, the face-to-face and façade policies that serve to ignore or forget the problem. If nothing is done, the interior will continue to become increasingly desertified and abandoned regions and the coast will concentrate on more and more dense islands, with the consequent degradation of the quality of life of all Portuguese. Yes, of all Portuguese, because this is a structural and national problem that affects all, whether they live on the interior or on the coast, that makes everyone responsible and that everyone has to mobilize. So, Mrs Deputy, it is necessary to identify public policies of an integrated and discriminatory nature in favour of the interior and which, in the medium term, have translated the reversal of the course that has occurred in recent decades. I ask you, Madam Member, whether the Socialist Party is available to give legal expression and effectiveness to tax measures and other measures that are at the heart of the debate today, which have already merited the support of the highest figures in the State, including that of the Prime Minister. Finally, I ask whether the Government is available to move from words to acts and promote the abolition of tolls on the motorways of cohesion or at least its substantial reduction, in particular in A23, A24 and A25.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u69	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u70	Are you serious this time, Mrs. Member, and that the word will be honest? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u71	In reply, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u72	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Manuel Frexes of the PSD, to tell him that it is not this time that the word given is an honest word, so it always happens with the Socialist Party and with this governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I think you were a little distracted when I said my speech. To consider that the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, which has 164 integrated horizontal measures, which go from justice to health, which has a degree of execution of 75 % and which has 122 measures completed, is case-by-case or broken, means that you have in fact been very distracted, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u73	Look at reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u74	The reality tells us what? He tells us that you have closed courts and we have reactivated 20 courts, benefiting 800 000 people who have been harmed by your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reality also tells us that we put 150 doctors inside, with 150 filled vacancies. The reality tells us that, in public security, we have benefited more than 40 places of proximity. And could continue with the public services that have been disabled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u75	The General Deposit Box counters!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u76	... removed from the state, telling him, for example, that we again put in Castelo Branco the call center of social security, having been created 150 jobs, and jobs with quality and lasting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I also said that the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion is currently being revised and will include measures of a fiscal nature and, with regard to these new measures, will receive contributions from civil society and the Movement for the Interior. Therefore, it is a Program that is being reviewed and that will accommodate all these realities, while combining decentralization with the so-called Program, with the National Investment Programme for our Country and with structural projects, such as that of Alqueva, which I mentioned and which is a project with the brand of socialist governments, because, when the PS governs, there are structural investments in the Alentejo, the Alentejo of which Mrs. Members have forgotten for many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I also spoke about Portugal 2020, within which 600 million were achieved in the reprogramming of the territorial base funds. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that I have answered you with honesty and demonstrating our indisputable political will to value the interior, combining this effort of decentralization that will combat regional asymmetries. With regard to the questions put by Mr Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, I would like to say, with all due consideration, that he is not concerned about the fact that this reform is forgotten by someone. This reform has not forgotten anyone since the beginning. The PS, by the voice of his parliamentary leader Carlos César, of other MPs and Prime Minister Antonio Costa, always said that this process should be glutinating. for our part, we never made initiatives unfeasible and always said that it was a process that needed everyone and obviously needed a continuous and extended work, like what we did with the Portuguese municipalities, with the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias) and with the Social Concertation Council, with the help of all the banks of this House. We have found a way of dialogue with the PSD in a project that is structuring, which goes beyond the legislature, but we always include everyone in this reforming process, which does not want to leave anyone behind and obviously needs the contribution of all Mrs. Members of this House. So, Mr President, what we have done with this reform is to include, it is not to disunite. at the same time, I reiterate that this reform does not deresponsibilize the State throughout these years of legislation and, with the support of the left, instead, we have come to strengthen the social state, giving it more presence in the territory, betting on the creation of measures that help those who have lower reforms, resting the social minimums, with the solidarity complement for the elderly, the social income of insertion and the extraordinary increase we have made at the level of family allowance. Therefore, if there is government that has strengthened the social state has been that of the PS, throughout this legislature, with the support of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens. What is essential for strengthening the State has been done. As far as education is concerned, we must not be afraid. There is a concern to always reconcile the autonomy of the school and the pedagogical autonomy of teachers with the autonomy of local power. The public school and local power are two successes of April 25, they are two successes of democracy, and they will follow side by side. Surely, Mr President, there will be no invasion of this autonomy by the local authorities — we must trust! I trust the local power of the autarchs and I am sure that the honourable Member does not distrust the autarchs of this country nor does he distrust the local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Hélder Amaral, I am also grateful for your questions. I want to tell you that we have not come here without studies done, without analyses done. We began at the beginning of 2016 with a guidance document for state reform and decentralization. in this guidance document were identified the needs for the transfer of competences to the parish, to the municipalities and to the intermunicipal level, not neglecting the democratic legitimacy of the CCDRs (Coordination and Regional Development Committees ) and also of the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u78	Mr President, for us this process is a programmatic, political and constitutional imperative. That's our script. This independent committee will continue this process, which will also be followed by a follow-up committee as provided for in Article 6. that of the framework law, so that, at the same time, one deepens a second phase of decentralization, associating the value of human and academic capital, as I know that the CDS always values. It is a process that is not exhausted, which is open, under construction, and which obviously also needs your support and contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u79	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this positive agenda that the PSD has marked and which brings today the discussion in the plenary, on the issue of territorial inequalities and decentralization, The Greens would like to make two previous comments. The first observation relates to the solution the PSD itself brings to this discussion, which is translated into a bill that creates the independent committee for decentralization. This is no longer a great novelty. it seems that the solution that the PSD has to give today on the most diverse issues is the creation of committees. On the other day, we also discussed the issue of birth and there came the PSD to propose another committee. So this is the real solution they have for the most diverse sectors with which the citizens are facing, and today it is the time, in particular, for the organization of our territory. In other words, a committee is created and consciences are washed. That will be the case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Are the solutions of the problems pushed forward? We believe that there are no effective solutions and that the PSD is unable to find these concrete solutions and to propose them to the Assembly of the Republic. This is not strange, however, because we know the government activity and government options of the PSD and CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be fair, very fair, to remember that you have contributed with all your strength to the devaluation of our territory, particularly in the interior of the country. Of course, the Greens will not need to remind everyone — but we will do so anyway — the role that they have played relative to, for example, the closure of fundamental public services, both in the area of education and in the field of health, and how they have emptied the interior of the country of these fundamental services to the lives of the people. We could also talk about another essential public service, to which you have grasped to destroy, particularly within the country, and I am talking about transport — both in the Douro and in the Alentejo we have found several examples that could be given. Perhaps I should remind you, in particular, of the way in which the passenger service on the East Line was closed — we, The Greens, had to work in this legislature so that it would be possible to restore this service to the populations — and what resulted from that for the economy of the region, especially for the higher education of the region, and how the liquidation of transport can then empty out a whole set of activities around it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u82	You have contributed to this and come here today to do what? Washing consciences? Over here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no concrete proposals! And we are not going to talk about the liquidation of productive activity within the country, particularly in the agricultural area, for which you have contributed well. This is the basic framework and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in particular Mrs and Mrs. Members of the PS, it is serious that when you think about decentralization and the relevance of decentralization, you decide to make an agreement with the PSD, which has this history. And it is serious indeed that they believe that the PSD will give a good partner to materialise a decentralization logic—that certainly will not come to good solutions. What is the great fear of the Greens of your proposals on decentralization? We, in principle, of course, are in favour of decentralization, but when we want to de-responsibility of the state and pass the burden of the problems to the authorities, I regret that this is not to respect the authorities, that is to plan, if I allow the expression, to frame the authorities themselves! This is serious, since there are certain functions as important, functions of the State, such as education or health, where there is a strong national policy and not 308 education or health policies in our country! Moreover, our experience of decentralisation led by PS and PSD governments tells us that skills are passed, but the corresponding financial means are not passed so that the authorities can act. So this is the history we know and nothing tells us that it will be different. But what do you propose in terms of, for example, a constitutional command, what is regionalization? Nothing! They do not propose anything at all! That fundamental step between the central state and the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u83	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, and with regard to the replacement of the parish, the brutal assortment that the PSD and CDS government has done? Nothing! They are also silent about this matter. Therefore, Mr President, the great concerns of the Greens in regard to these matters called'registration agreements' are expressed here, but that, in fact, at nothing, the Portuguese and Portuguese benefit the Portuguese. We, The Greens, will be here in the Assembly of the Republic to work towards improving the quality of life of people and valuing our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u86	We haven't done anything else. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u87	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of these years of territorial model, we can only conclude that this territorial model, based on an administrative organization that excludes an intermediate level of administration and sprays, in hundreds of local authorities, representation and territorial political capacity, has reached a dead end. In fact, the situation we are experiencing today is a situation of serious territorial difference, of lack of territorial cohesion, which directly affects people living on one or another site in the country, depending on their own geography. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Santinho Pacheco's question, whether the PSD viewed this agreement between the Government and the PSD in the sense of regionalization, Mr António Costa Silva's lack of reply was enlightening. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] In fact, what the PSD wants is to maintain the line of former Minister Relvas in terms of the liquidation of regionalisation, the liquidation of true decentralization and true administrative decentralization of our country. In addition, the Socialist Party abandons the objective of regionalisation, withdraws the word'regionalisation' from its lexicon, reaches the point of abandoning what is included in the Government's own programme — the creation of metropolitan authorities, the correction of errors in the extinction of the fragesias to rule and framework. And why? Because you want to accept it, because it is available to accept all the PSD's taxes on the administration of the territory. In fact, the Socialist Party is giving in to a real territorial bullying on the right, the PSD, about the Socialist Party. This is the great fracture we have here in this Parliament. This whole assignment to the territorial bullying of the PSD is then summed up in a proposal. It's a proposal that's so fiendish that it doesn't even come up with jealousy. When you speak in jealousy, honestly, this is so weak that you cannot arouse jealousy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u89	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u90	That's what it looks like!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u91	An independent committee for decentralization? But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look carefully at what is written there, it is not for the title, look well at what is written there! in the object, there are two points: evaluation, repeat evaluation, « on the organization and functions of the state » — nothing says about decentralization, nothing says about regionalization; the other objective, this even more charged, is « programme of deconcentration of the location of public entities and services ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this should be the subject of an ASAE intervention, because it is misleading advertising! So you put an independent Commission for Decentralisation in the title, and then you set up a programme for deconcentration as an objective? They will not want me to explain to you, of course, the difference between deconcentration and decentralisation. [[PSD laughter.]] Excuse me for doing this, please! There is a huge difference between decentralization and deconcentration! What you want is to deceive Portuguese and Portuguese, to confuse themselves with decentralisation with deconcentration! Therefore, Mr António Costa Silva, it is not all open in this debate, it is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u92	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u93	What is open is a policy of deconcentration rather than decentralisation! It's written! It is written in the agreement that you have made with the Government and with the Socialist Party! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the difference between deconcentration and decentralisation is fundamental and this proposal for an independent committee for decentralization is indeed misleading advertising. It's not decentralisation, it's deconcentration! This is the political problem that this Parliament is facing. Notice, Portugal has one of the lowest percentages of government resources managed at sub-regional level. The European Union at 28 manages 33, 4 % of resources, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) at 35 manages 40, 4 %. What about Portugal? Portugal is 12, 6 %! That is, there is a brutal discrepancy and this has to do with decentralization, it has to do with deconcentration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u94	Concentrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u95	If you send Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority) to the Port,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u96	It's not us! It's the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u97	You're out of your mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u98	... the expenditure continues to be central, it is not decentralisation, it is the continuation of concentration, it is only deconcentration, it is only central expenditure. Therefore, PS and PSD do not really want decentralization. They remain for a limited and inconsequent deconcentration. Don't fool the Portuguese! This fracture is an important fracture, because it undermines the ability of people to decide, the ability of citizens to decide in their territories in relation to their own territorial development. This is what you do not want, you do not want to give political decision-making capacity to these citizens, to the citizens of the various territories. The question being put in this Parliament is just a joke, an account. What currently exists in this debate in relation to the agreement between the Government and the PSD is simply a simulation. It has nothing to do with decentralization, and this needs to be made very clear in this debate. Therefore, the Left Block cannot follow this proposal for setting up an independent committee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u99	Mr Soares, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD, wrote to ask for clarifications, but he has no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u100	If any parliamentary group of my time, I would respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u101	Does the PSD still want to ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u102	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u103	Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u104	Mr President, Mr Soares, let me tell you that this was a wall of regret. They weren't jealous! It seemed an existential crisis of management, it really seemed! Mr President, you have spoken, you have spoken, you have said, you have said, you have regretted, you have regretted, you have regretted, but you have regretted your gossip and your lover, because you have not yet been able to overcome it, and that is why one day they are opposition and another day they are government, as you do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u105	It is very difficult for you to accept, Mr President, that which is, and has always been, a fundamental premise of the PSD: the national interest. [[PCP laughter.]] contrary to you, who like to make big jokes, we are interested in the Portuguese and the problems of the territorial inequalities you spoke about, Mr. You talk a lot inside and you create here the idea that the interior is Trás-os-Montes, the Beers and the Alentejo. But no! Inequalities are not just that! In fact, I am from the Upper Mininho, a territory apparently from the coast, but that is actually an authentic territory of the interior in terms of indicators. And with an aggravating: our direct competition is Galicia, where we have Vigo, Pontevedra, Santiago de Compostela, Corunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u106	Regions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u107	But more than that, the gentlemen. Members, as part of the government, complain here a lot, but what have they done to end these territorial inequalities? A28 with tolls? Ladies and gentlemen, did you not remember when they negotiated the Budget—but the one they are part of, although today it seems that nothing has to do with it—are they discriminating on these highways? Of course not! The High Mine doesn't need it! When the tax on fuel increased — yes, those 6 cents that you created — there were some border posts that had a tax regime equal to Spanish. High Mine? Of course not! Monção, Melgaço, Vila Nova de Cerveira, these, count for nothing! After all, they seemed to be out of focus and not decentralized. They're confusions that happen! More, sirs. Members: at the time of the fires, when more than 4000 ha were burned and homes lost, the Bloc and all those who are part of the government solution announced a forest reform. You know what's been done so far? in your reprogramming of funds, you know what has been done? Let me tell you: nothing! There's a house rebuilt in Monção, you know? Yes, there is, because the owner paid! Because the CCDR-N (Northern Regional Development and Coordination Committee ) says that there is no money. This is your responsibility! It goes far beyond the speeches, goes far beyond the sound bits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u109	They take responsibility and assume that they are government! And when they stop complaining, make this wall of regret and take concrete, exact, measures that help to end territorial inequalities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u110	The Left Block does not have time to respond and, therefore, we move on to the next intervention by Mrs Paula Santos, to whom I give the floor Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: of the elements we have in relation to the process of transferring competences, we can say that there is nothing good to be hoped for. in the ongoing process, there is a assumption that is present: there can be no increase in public expenditure. However, there can be no increase in public expenditure and if on what is currently underfinanced an investment is not made necessary to ensure, for example, investment in education, health and culture, if it is the same money that will be transferred to the authorities, then the problems, which we have identified today, will continue to be unsolved. That is why we are not faced with a process of decentralization of competences, but rather with a process of transfer of charges to the authorities, such as those we have seen in the past. Let us look at the example of education: there is a lack of operational assistants in schools and the current portage does not respond to the effective need of workers, given the concrete reality in schools; there are schools that do not have sports pavilions to be able to properly learn the discipline of Physical Education or to develop school sports; there are facilities of schools that are completely degraded—in fact, there are schools that, for decades, have never had a deep investment in their conservation and maintenance. however, what is contained in the proposal is to transfer what is today in the State budget. In other words, it does not solve the problem — in fact, it was what PSD and CDS did with inter-administrative contracts. For the maintenance of schools is an amount of €20 000, the same as in 2008 of the implementation contracts of the Government of the Socialist Party. Only with this small problem: this is not only for maintenance and conservation, it is also for the training of schools. Therefore, we are facing a process of PS responsibility and now PSD seems to have been put into the Government's pocket and allowed to take half a dozen coughs that will not solve any problem, it will only harm the populations. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u113	This is the reality of this process, because the failure to comply with the Local Finance Act continues there, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]] It continues on the proposal that you have now accepted and agreed with the Government. On these matters, we say that a process of decentralization is much more than transferring competences to the authorities. The true regionalization, as our Constitution says, requires the replacement of the fries — that PS, PSD and CDS have prevented them from being restored in this legislature — according to the will of the people. If the aim was to bring the state of the population closer, it had first advanced with the replacement of the parish. This leaves us with a question: today there is a proposal for a committee on decentralization to be set up, but Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to discuss when the PS and PSD have already established an agreement?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u114	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u115	Or do you want to continue to postpone regionalization and postpone the fulfilment of the Constitution, which is the Mother Law of our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u117	That is what is present in this matter. We cannot, however, follow this perspective, because what is on the table is a deresponsibility of the State, of the Government in fulfilling its duties, in ensuring the universality of the social functions of the State. On the other hand, we also believe that the process in the Assembly of the Republic should be serious and that we cannot now be speeding up on behalf of the people we do not know well why, by putting the Members as verbs to fill in this whole process and by voting on proposals that at no time will value local power, much less will benefit the people and guarantee better public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u119	The Assembly of the Republic should not in fact enter into proceedings in this way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u120	The Bureau recorded the registration of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u121	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u122	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u123	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that Mr Costa Silva, as has been usual, drew a black portrait of the Alentejo where he lives and I would like to see him in a more positive perspective, remembering that the negative aspects he mentioned here were the cause of previous governance or, at least, the problems of the Alentejo interiority have been aggravated. The chaos and contempt that you have devoted to the Alentejos have resulted precisely in what you complained about here. however, we are living today a moment of greater importance. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Government have established an agreement and it is important to point out that this is an agreement of the autarchs and these — I can say, because for almost 40 years I am — have always been available and have always claimed more competences to be able to be in a situation of greater proximity to the service of their peoples, their people, to try to solve the problems of their regions. It's something that the autarchs have never resigned to, and it's something that the autarchs aspire to. Fortunately, with this government, with a decentralizing will that it has expressed since the first hour it has assumed governance, the conditions have been created for, I think that after the governance of Eng. Guterres, if we achieve a consensus between the authorities and the government to find a delegation of competences that can, through proximity, improve the quality of life and contribute to the development of our regions. I would therefore like to congratulate myself on this historic agreement between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and say that this consensus between the Government and the municipalities is a fundamental element for the advancement of the process of decentralization. The municipalities have a decisive role in the development of policies that correct asymmetries and promote social and territorial cohesion. What is at stake here is to allow the autarchs to contribute to the development of their lands. The agreement, which has been so criticised by some, allows, especially the autarchs, to face the future with certainty so that they can plan their management, irrespective of the government that is currently in front of the country and regardless of the political force that is in front of each of the authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] during my life as an autoarch, I have participated and worked with many autoarchs of the Communist Party. They were very important partners in the development of my region. I know the work done by many, the will and willingness they have to use the position they hold in order to contribute to a better quality of life for their communities and to the development of their territories. In line with what is the will of many autoarchs, of the generality of the authorships, but in particular of the authorships of the Communist Party, which I know, I think it was necessary for the Communist Party to have a more active role in this process of discussion. Therefore, I ask you, Mrs Paula Santos, if the PC is available,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u124	The PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u125	... sorry, if the CFP is available to contribute actively to the discussion that will be followed for the strengthening of the competences of local authorities, also allowing the authorities to take on the role that is necessary in this process of territorial development and social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u126	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u127	Mr President, first of all, I would like to begin by telling Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party, that the PSD Members, with regard to decentralization, are not « verbs to fill », they respect the work, the opinion and the position of their authors within the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. I also hope that the CFP will respect the work of its authors in this Association. [[PSD applause.]] Although decentralization is at the heart of our political debate on the interior today, we cannot regard it in any way as the alpha and omega of regional asymmetries. We can't just stay here; otherwise, we're going to fall short of the needs of the interior. The recent fire tragedy has made it clear that territorial cohesion is simply a matter of regime, that combating asymmetries is today a structural and decisive challenge for the future of our country. However, as long as we are not moving forward to this reform, I would like to invite the ladies and gentlemen. Members to make a small assessment of the regional asymmetries which today live our country, the result of the action of this government, and which have been of great concern in the Viseu region. I begin with health, which has already been mentioned here. The Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center, which so far was a unit of excellence and reference for the Centre region, lives today times of great unrest and distress. Of course, by the socialist water brand: a significant increase in the debt and payment deadlines to suppliers; a serious lack of human resources in the various services—more than 100 nurses are missing, 65 doctors are missing specialists, lack of superior health technicians, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants. All this is reflected in users' access to health care and we can easily verify through increased waiting time for consultations, for surgeries, for treatments and for exams and also, in general, by reducing the capacity, productivity and quality of the Hospital Center. In addition, there is an incomprehensible delay in the realization of some investments that are fundamental to the quality of the Hospital Center, such as the expansion of the Emergency Service and also the construction of an oncological center. According to the Board of Directors, nothing has yet been done, because there is no financial authorization, i.e. no money. It is serious, very serious, failures in the supply of materials and medicines, as well as in the maintenance of some equipment. Over time, there has been a breakdown in the stock of the diapers in the Pediatrics Service and Hospital Center to help out with a large local commercial area to acquire the diapers there. This is what's happening at the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center! We are now talking about infrastructure, and it is very recent in the memory of all of us the question of IP3. This is the biggest ambush in the government. The good school of propaganda and staging by José Socrates is back! The tendins are also back on the road, but this time, go with some modesty, without some coktails. It is unacceptable and revealing a huge lack of sense of state that the Prime Minister takes into account the choice between works and people. People, for us, will always be our priority. Let me be a little ironic: I want here to apologize to the teachers, because the Prime Minister announced that the recovery of the career service is not possible because of the IP3 works. But let us also make it clear that we do not accept being the scapegoat for the bad choices and decisions of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u128	Don't you? Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u129	We all know that there were other options, which the Government, the Socialist Party, the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens rejected on ideological grounds. That, yes, is ruling! To govern is to make choices and, if the choices taken have consequences and affect the lives of teachers and civil servants, then whoever took them must be politically penalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u130	You're giving support to the government! Let go of that conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u131	What about the work itself? So let's talk about the IP3 work. How is it possible to have the discharge to take advantage of the launch of a contest of a simple undertaking, of requalification of the trace to recover the original trace, not to present any calendar with the work and to pass everything by the end of 2019? That's it! This is the reality of the facts. That is how the Government has treated our region, the interior and the whole country. Mrs Deputy, then I would like to ask you, so that you may not forget: where was Mrs Deputy on November 25, 2015? Or on December 3, 2015? Where was it also on March 15, 2016? Where was it on November 29, 2016? Or on November 27, 2017? I tell you, Mrs. Member : I was here in this House approving the Government Programme and approving the State budgets of 2016, 2017 and 2018. [[PSD and CDS applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] These, yes, are the cause of the gravity of these asymmetries. [[PCP protests.]] So, Mrs. Deputy, for all your apologies, everything else is crocodile tears. [[PSD and CDS applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u132	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u133	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Pedo Alves and Mr Norberto Patinho for their questions. Starting by responding to Mr. Pedro Alves where we were, I tell him that we were preventing the disastrous policy of PSD and CDS, cuts in wages, cuts in pensions, cuts in public school, in the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS Protests]] We did not set the zero-kilometre count in January 2016, such as PSD and CDS. The problems that exist today are responsible. And the gentlemen. PSD and CDS members are responsible, because they have not solved any problems, they have only aggravated them. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, let me tell you that I understand your discomfort. They are ashamed of the agreement they have made with the Government of the Socialist Party on decentralization and still do not want to talk about it. We understand your shame in this matter. Your position on these issues and on the agreement they have reached with the Government of the Socialist Party is going to harm the people, hence your discomfort. Mr Norberto Patinho, in fact, the electors of the PCP and CDU in the authorities have always had the position of valuing the populations, of doing everything to defend the interests of the people. I am sorry that the Socialist Party does not seek consensus with the CFP. It is that we have put forward concrete proposals on this subject on the conditions for a real transfer of competences, principles, objectives, criteria and conditions that must be respected; we have submitted a proposal for a law on the Law on Local Finance, of root,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u134	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u135	... that breaks with the current law, in a perspective of restoring the financial capacity of the authorities; we put forward a proposal to initiate a regionalization process and we put forward a proposal for the creation of metropolitan authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u136	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u137	We came to the discussion in a constructive way, we came to discussion with concrete proposals. The Socialist Party has taken its option to converge with the PSD. And to converge with the PSD in exactly the opposite direction to the one our Constitution defends when it speaks in matters of decentralization and in relation to the principle of decentralization, because regionalization is out of place and as for the replacement of the parish and not to speak. What is on the table is not solving any problems and transferring the charges with the authorities. That, sir, we cannot follow. We believe that this is neither the way, nor the strengthening of the democratic local power, nor the guarantee of the rights of the social functions which our Constitution enshrines, nor the improvement of the public service that the State provides. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u138	Mr Renato Sampaio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decentralization of competences for the authorities is the fundamental basis of State reform. This is a reform that everyone proclaims, they all complain, they all promise, but that, in practice, until today, has never been truly realized. What we have today is a mere establishment of protocols, programme contracts or other administrative instruments between the central administration and local administration. This is not a good practice of governance, because it does not guarantee desirable autonomy of local power, creates inequalities between municipalities and disresponsibility of those who have an obligation to implement projects and implement essential public policies. It was invented models of territorial organization that made us believe that decentralization was going around, as was the particular case of the reform imposed on the administration of the territory, which failed, because it imposed and implemented without the participation of the various political decision makers and against the citizens. Portugal is one of the least decentralized countries in Europe, where centralism prevails, which has led us to a bureaucratic state, made of slow decisions, of duplication of management structures and deresponsibility of public managers. Decentralisation as a model for the organisation of the territory can be achieved by two ways: by regionalisation or by the transfer of competences to local administration. The PS has always defended regionalization and does not abdicate from it, does not abdicate this design and on this matter receives no lesson from anyone. But regionalization is today very committed to the imposition of the constitutionally consecrated binding referendum. The transfer of competences to local authorities remains for now, if we want and if there is a political will to achieve this important reform. On the part of the Government and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, there is this political will to build a broad consensus in this House, in order to ensure the stability of these policies, a greater good of the democratic state, and thus to ensure that this reform is not at the mercy of the conjuncural majority that is being formed in the future. We are aware that the authorities, as they are closer to the citizens, to decision-making and to the knowledge they have of local realities and their territories, are better able to implement essential public policies, with greater efficiency, better criteria of transparency and confidence, greater rationalization of available resources, thus contributing to the effective local development, to the economic and social cohesion of the territory, further strengthening inter-municipal solidarity, promoting active policies for the enhancement of the interior and the establishment of people in these territories. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, local power is a consistent reality that allows us to promote adequate, effective and necessary decentralization to the reality of the various territories, enhancing proximity governance and the efficient use of local resources. However, for this purpose to be achieved, it is necessary to develop a new framework for local government financing to monitor the strengthening of the powers of the authorities, converging, according to the goal set out in the national reform programme, to the European average in terms of the participation of authorities in public revenue. This is what the Government has done by presenting a proposal for an amendment to the Local Finance Act, thus reconciling new competences with the new financing model.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u140	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u141	We have in the legislative process a set of government proposals with the aim of transferring new competences to local authorities, as well as a profound change to the Local Finance Act. This House is entrusted with the responsibility of approving this decisive reform of the Public Administration. The PS Parliamentary Group wants to help create a broad consensus in these policies and therefore we are available to work with everyone — all without exception — to promote genuine decentralization of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u142	As the Social Democratic Party is responsible for closing the debate, I ask the CDS-PP if you wish to use the remaining time. [[Pause.]] Since the CDS-PP does not wish to intervene, it has the floor to close the debate, Mrs Berta Cabral, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on territorial inequalities and decentralization has focused substantially on the question of decentralization, but the PSD, when it marked this debate, wanted to go much further because it considers that decentralization and exploitation of the interior, appreciation of the territory are faces of the same currency. Despite the enormous progress and developments in local power over the past 40 years, Portugal remains, however, a too centralised country that has been watching the progressive increase in regional asymmetries. Decentralization is not enough to promote the country's cohesive development, but it is certainly a necessary condition. Therefore, the PSD, together with its pioneering leadership in the delegation of competences in local authorities and in the legislative initiative on decentralization, also presented a draft creation of the Statute of the Low Density Territories and now presents a bill—which is what we are discussing—for the creation of an independent committee for the decentralization and subnational organization of the State. There was one who called it here as a committee for decentralization, wrongly — a committee for decentralization and the subnational organization of the State. The problems, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they're identified. We must therefore concentrate on solutions. And the Movement for the Interior, which brought together individualities of recognized competence and several political quadrants, has made an extraordinary contribution through the presentation of 24 measures that we cannot fail to consider. We therefore challenge the Government and the other parties of this Parliament so that, in the next budget, measures can be implemented which encourage the maintenance and uptake of investment and employment within the country. The challenge is therefore to lay hands on the work and to structure a subnational legal and administrative building which, under the principle of subsidiarity, is able to combine decentralization with the enhancement of the territory. The conclusion of the agreement signed between the PSD and the Government on decentralization is a clear sign of the will, determination and urgent need to work for a more equal country, more attentive to regional specificities and more solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has evidence. Regional autonomy established by the PSD is proof of this. Without its own competences, enshrined in the political and administrative statutes of the autonomous regions and without the increased European resources, by virtue of the superperipheral status, the social and economic reality of these regions would be completely different. It is also important to note that there is a long way to go and that the economic and social indicators in these regions, particularly the Azores, are still very worrying. That is why in our view the Government needs to be more ambitious in negotiating the next multiannual financial framework because the regions and the interior of the country cannot lose funds at this post-2020 stage. on the contrary, there must be growth of cohesion funds, there must be growth of the funds of the common agricultural policy, and there must be growth for the Azores and Madeira, of the specific programme designated by POSEI ( Programme of Specific Options for Remoteness and Insularity in the Ultraperipheral Regions ). We have to make territorial cohesion a national cause and the PSD says « present! Do not keep on seeking. ” We are proud, both in power and in opposition, to make the sense of responsibility and national interest prevail. The step forward that we are taking today to this second stage of the process of decentralization is in this reformist and forward-looking position. We very much like our country and we very much like our regions to resign from the responsibility of giving Portugal a better future. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u144	This debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take account of several initiatives which, however, have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill No 140 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — authorises the Government to establish the sanctioning regime applicable to the exercise of the commercial maritime fishing activity, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 935 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Disincentives the use of microplastics in current-use products such as cosmetics and hygiene products in order to safeguard ecosystems and public health ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 936 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 937 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 938 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulates the cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( GMOs ) ( CFPs ), which fall to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1750 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare an annual report on asylum policy in Portugal ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1751 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the security forces and services, by creating a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators ( NAP ), which falls to 1. the Commission and 1752 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by expanding and improving the operational capacity of the Horta airport track ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we generally vote on the bill that you have been discussing today, we will proceed to the quorum verification using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 197 presences to which 5 are added by the Members. Deputies Constance Urbano de Sousa e Luís Moreira Testa, de PS, António Leitão Amaro, do PSD, e Assunção Cristas e Vânia Dias da Silva, do CDS-PP, perfezing 202 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 890 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates an independent decentralization committee ( PS and PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and PS, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u147	Mr. PAN is away. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u148	Mr President, it is to announce that I will hand over a declaration of vote, in writing, on the vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-04.u149	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We are thus at the end of today's session. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m. on the agenda there shall be, as a single point, an appeal to the Government No 22/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — On the defence of the National Health Service (The Greens). I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 56 minutes.]]
