ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the two-year debate with the Prime Minister, I would like to announce that there is a delegation from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, addressed by its President, Milan Brglez, to whom I would like a warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then begin today's work, which consists of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. in the specific case of today, it is up to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP to begin the questions. Before giving the floor to Mrs Cristian Assumption, I would ask the Members. Members who created the acoustic conditions necessary for the honourable Member to be able to listen. [[Pause.]] Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as a previous question, let me ask you a question on a topic of this day and that has to do with the increase of commissions in the General Deposit Box, which has — and well — a single shareholder, which is the Portuguese State. My question is whether this should or should not make any difference to other banks with regard to committee policy. I would also like to ask whether, for Mr. Prime Minister, it is acceptable that there should be more of this increase in committees, which affects, in particular, people who use the box counters, usually the older ones, and if it is acceptable that the Portuguese, and those older ones too, pay, on the one hand, the cash recapitalisation and, on the other hand, still have to pay more commissions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u3	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u4	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, allow me, before answering your question today, to return to our debate 15 days ago, in which we had a dispute here about the number of USF (family health units) created during 2017. As I was not rigorous in identifying the numbers for the USF created in 2017, I bring you today the list with the addresses and telephone numbers of the 18 USF created in 2017, plus the office, however published in the Journal of the Republic, which ratifys the creation of the remaining five USFs that, being created, were not yet in operation. I leave you here the list and the office, and we are so needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the issue you raised, he said, and well, that the State is a shareholder, he is even the sole shareholder of the General Deposit Box. As I have been able to say several times, I do not understand the acting function of the State as it should intervene in the acts of administration of the State companies. We will evaluate the administration of the General Deposit Box for its results — soon, results of the first year will be presented — but we will not, nor will I ever, pronounce ourselves on isolated administration acts, because in that case we would no longer be shareholders and become administrators of the General Deposit Box. And I am no administrator of the General Deposit Box, I represent the shareholder State in the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u5	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I understand the distinction between being an shareholder and having the management of a company. However, it is up to the shareholder to provide management guidance for the company itself, and in this particular case, the relevant question is whether or not it makes sense to have a commission policy on the part of a 100 % public bank — and this bench is at ease, because it always defended that the General Deposit Box was 100 % public — that does not really differ from the other banks on the market. [[PS protests.]] Moreover, with a double liability, which is the fact that it is 100 % public and the largest actor in the national banking market. Should this not make any changes? Does it make sense and is it fair that the government does not give any indication, when our pensioners, who have had a small increase in their pension, see this increase eaten by a General Deposit Box commission? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u7	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards pensioners, we did what we should have done, which was to ensure compliance with the Constitution, return to them the pensions that had been unconstitutionally cut and we paid them back the pensions that were due. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And even more: we made an extraordinary increase for those pensions that had not had any increases before and a second extraordinary increase this year for pensions that had not had any increases. And even more: we have created conditions for the economy to grow at a pace that all pensioners in lower pensions have real increases this year, as it has not happened for many years. So, as far as pensioners are concerned, we did what we were supposed to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the General Deposit Box, we will also do what is our responsibility, which is not to interfere with the Management Act of the Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u9	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I note that with regard to this matter, Mr Prime Minister lives comfortable with the fact that pensioners who, although fortunately, now have a little more, have been removed, because of this indirect and hidden austerity, that little more that they have finally achieved... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... and register that, for you, the General Deposit Box 100 % publicly serves as a public capital injection, but does not serve to protect its depositors from these increases that clearly seem excessive. But let me go back to the topic that you have already pointed out here and thank you for rectification in relation to family health units. What is more, we have already asked the question in writing. I'm glad the answer came now so that we can check this data. The fact remains that the answer was not entirely correct or reliable. But now, I ask you if you have elements and if you want to correct the answer you gave me regarding the family nurse. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u11	That answer doesn't know anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u12	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u13	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, regarding the General Deposit Box, I will tell you what I will always say about any public undertaking: I do not understand the participation of the State, wholly or partially, in the capital of a company as the government should replace the administration of the companies under its management. What it is for the shareholder to do is to approve business plans, what it is for the shareholder to do is to control the strategic orientation, what it is for the shareholder to do is to appreciate the company's accounts and the way it is managed, it is not to interfere in each management act. I have to say that this is how I have acted in other functions and in which I also have public companies under my care, and that is how I do it. I hope that the honourable Member has also done so when she was a minister and also protected public companies. I hope you did not interfere on your day-to-day management activity. I, for myself, will not grossly interfere in the management activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u14	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, possibly what divides us is that for us, in fact, this policy of increasing committees has to do with strategic direction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u16	But we go ahead and I ask you what you have to say about family nurses. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u17	To answer again, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this matter, I do not think I have much to add to what we have talked about in the last fortnight's debate. There is indeed an experience that is under way. There is still no generalization of the figure of the family nurse, but there are, I repeat, ongoing experiences. That is the answer I gave you and I have nothing to add to this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u19	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact there was an ongoing experience, but it was now supposed to have been regulated by the Ministry the figure of the family nurse and started to be applied generically. But this regulation, as much as I was informed by the Order of the Nurses, has not yet been done by the Government. Therefore, there is actually no family nurse with this status, with this way of working and with legal framework for this. I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, that for the future this delay on family nurses can be quickly completed. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say that, in relation to the issue of health, as is known, the CDS has given particular attention. We have visited hospitals from North to South, we have talked with people on the street, we have talked with professional orders in this area. I would like to ask you whether today will be the day when it assumes that health has indeed been one of the main areas where your government makes a more obnoxious austerity policy, but still with great impact on people's daily lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u21	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u22	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, are we going to evaluate for the expense or are we going to evaluate for the results of the service activity? If it is for spending, it has increased and with this we now have more human resources in the National Health Service ( SNS) and also more interventions made in the facilities and equipment of the National Health Service. If it is for production, what I can tell you is that there is a significant increase in production: we have more consultations in health centres, we have more consultations in hospitals, we have more surgical interventions done in hospital environments. We have more production and we have more expenditure. Therefore, there is no more austerity in investment, nor is there any worse result in production. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u23	It's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u24	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will look at the reality that our patients and our users live every day. This reality is, for example, that of the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, which has a urgency with an occupation of 200 or 300 %, which has a plan for a new urgency, approved by health plan but rejected by the finances — there is, it is necessary to block things so that then numbers appear — which waits for 8 million euros — is not an exaggerated fortune to build this new urgency — and to my question about how many days there were those maces that I saw, the answer was:'sometimes, several days. » Several days patients get stuck in a corridor, with monkeys behind monkeys and where professionals do a notorious job. I can also tell you that we evaluate health issues not only for expenditure, but for the extra hours that are owed to nurses and doctors and that they travel from year to year, even though there is an order to say that they have to be paid by the end of the year. I can tell you about the debts of the hospitals, which once again grew up and stayed above what happened the previous year, or the doctors hired. Mr. Prime Minister, do we have a policy of covert austerity or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u26	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u27	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, no, we don't! If you want to talk about specific cases, I'm talking about specific cases. The honourable Member tells me that there is a hospital where no works have been done and I give her the name of 10 hospitals where works have been done. Therefore, the serious evaluation of the performance of the system has to do with the aggregate value of the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even this week, a report was presented comparing our National Health Service in Europe and our SNS was generally 14. the place, in a set of 35 countries. But what is relevant is not only increased production in 2016 compared to 2015 It is that in 2017 there were more 250 994 hospital consultations than in 2016, there were more 6699 surgeries than in 2016 and there were more 300 000 consultations and more 18 000 interventions in health centers. So production has been increasing, and it is this joint assessment that we have to do. It will be absolutely demagogic to count the hospital and center the center what is missing, because we all certainly know that in many hospitals and in many health centers human resources and equipment are lacking and interventions are necessary. That's why we're here: to do what needs to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u28	For further questions, you have the floor of Mrs Assunción Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u29	Mr. President, Prime Minister, increases the number of consultations but increases the waiting list for consultations; increases the number of surgeries performed, but increases the waiting list for surgeries; and also increases the debt. In 2016, the debts of hospitals increased by EUR 30 million per month and in 2017 increased by EUR 48 million per month. So, Prime Minister, I'm telling you about what I hear, see and read. And by the way, that 14th. the place concerns 2014 data.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u31	It would be good to recognize this very from the position of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u32	I would like to say again that what we have is a stubborn austerity which, moreover, appears on other sides, as in the lack of control of legionella, in the lack of control of polluting discharges in the Tejo River and in what Mr. Prime Minister put in the drawer badly entered the government and which is called 'public investment'. As I believe that the Prime Minister has already missed some of my graphics, I did not want to end this debate without showing you some, which I can offer you. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u33	Madam Member, I ask you to quickly show the graphics, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u34	I shall finish quickly, Mr President. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed three graphs.]] The first graph concerns public investment in 2016 and shows us, analyzing what was planned and what was executed, that given word was not honored or fulfilled. The second graph concerns 2017 and, once again, we can see what was promised in the Budget and what was executed. But the worst of all, Mr. Prime Minister — for saving, I will not mention all the figures relating to the breakdowns of investment — is that in any year of your Government, public investment, which you were defending so much, is below the level reached in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u35	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u36	Here you have, Prime Minister, such hidden and hooded austerity, which affects health, that affects education, that affects public transport, that affects security, and it would be good for you to recognize it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u37	You now have the floor to put questions to Mr Hugo Soares of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I begin by greeting Portuguese and Portuguese, Portuguese companies and the Government for the well-known numbers of unemployment. It costs us nothing, unlike the practice of previous oppositions in much more difficult times, to recognize what has happened to the country. I think that's even a big difference, so I'm off with that distinction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u39	It's just that good things happen now and they don't happen before!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u40	contrary to the parts I will hear, Mr Prime Minister knows — some Members will not know — that the unemployment rate has been falling since February 2013, which naturally has to do with economic growth, with a new economic cycle, with structural reforms that have taken place in labour law and that are seeking to bring investment to Portugal and to give competitiveness to our economy. This is the way in which the unemployment rate has come down. The stability of labour law is essential so that all this can compete so that we have more and more Portuguese employees—unfortunately, there are still many with low wages, unlike the narrative of all the majority that the government supports. Mr. Prime Minister, this week was given the first major beat in the stability of labour law as regards both the protection of workers and the capture of foreign investment. I ask you whether you agree with the Socialist Party's sense of vote on yesterday's amendments to labour legislation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u41	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u42	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, of course, the Government does not assess the behaviour of parliamentary groups, much less that of the Assembly of the Republic, which is a sovereign body we respect. With regard to labour legislation, it is known what is contained in the Government Programme, what is planned to be changed and what we define as essential. We need to improve the quality of the labour market. Fortunately, we have had a sustained reduction in the unemployment rate, with the creation of 288 000 jobs in net terms since the beginning of this legislation, but, as I said, it is necessary to continue to improve the quality either through wages - the minimum wage has already increased 15 % in these years - either by boosting the collective bargaining, which, fortunately, has already had significant gains in real increase of purchasing power with the levels of hiring at about 2, 6 %, or by the significant increase in the contributions to social security due to the increase in wages. We also need to increase stability — it is good that 78 % of the new contracts are unfinished. Finally, what we have found is that, contrary to what many feared, and some have even announced, the increase in the minimum wage and the new income policy have not diverted investment, on the contrary. last year, the investment grew more, as it had not grown for 18 years. It is this strategy that we will continue, and that is how we will proceed. If you will allow me, Mr Hugo Soares, I am now addressing Mrs Cristian Assumption, so that you will not cease to have the right to reply and to reassure you. Madam Member, it is true that last year we executed less than EUR 800 million in respect of what we had entered in the budget. Despite everything, it was much better than in the last two budgets in which you played the position of Minister, and it was to run EUR 1000 million in a year and EUR 1100 million in another year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u43	You have the floor again, Mr Hugo Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, I understand that you would like to use the time available to respond to the CDS rather than respond to the PSD, for a simple reason: it is that you have not answered anything. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, did I ask you a very simple question: do you agree with yesterday's amendments to labour legislation? And don't come to me with the excuse that you don't get into the guidance given to the PS bench. I did not want to, but I will have to remind you of the sad figure that forced your Members to do during the debate on the State budget, in which on Friday they voted in favour, then Mr Prime Minister gave an interview to the Express in which he said 'I gave clear instructions to change the voting orientation' and, on the following Monday, his Members voted against everything. It's not worth an apology! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, you only have to answer the question I asked you about whether or not you agree or if you don't even know what this is. Tell me if you know what's going on and if you agree or disagree. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u45	Mr. Prime Minister, please. You have the right to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u46	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, we do not give instructions. Not today, not yesterday. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u47	But as is normal, there is a dialogue between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and the Government. If you ask us if we follow you, I answer that we follow you. We simply must not pronounce or appreciate, the Assembly of the Republic is absolutely sovereign in order to legislate as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u48	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, don't say that, it is wrong for you. We all read what he said. Its expression was « of immediate instructions». It is that he did not even say that he gave petty instructions — a term he likes to use — he said he gave immediate instructions. So don't hide behind that. Just answer the following: you don't know what this is about, do you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u50	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u51	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I have already had the opportunity to reply that we follow the amendments made yesterday to the legislation on the transfer of workers from companies. We'll go with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u52	Answer what you've been asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u53	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u54	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact, is not well informed. They have tried to whisper to him by explaining what this is about, but I say: it is not about the transmission of workers, it is about the transmission of establishment or company, which is almost the same thing in Mr. Prime Minister's lexicon. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] You know, Prime Minister, it is not true that this is such a peaceful issue. What you did yesterday for the first time — and have formalized — with paper stamped by the three parties, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party, therefore will remain for posterity — was to condition both the protection of workers in the case of transmission of establishment or enterprise, or even to give a slaughter in the capture of foreign investment. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] For now, anyone who wants to transmit his establishment can only do so by knowing that if his worker opposes him, he will have to stay with his worker if he understands that there are doubts based, for example, on the ability to organize the work of those who want to acquire that establishment. All this was not discussed in the social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u55	What about PSD proposals? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u56	We also know the Government's view on social dialogue: it classifys it as a « cattle market ». But, Prime Minister, it is worth discussing a matter as serious as this in social consultation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u57	What a disrespect!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u58	Mr Prime Minister, this matter was not mentioned in your electoral programme, but I have already seen you agree. however, on the eve of legislative elections, about the age of reform, Mr Prime Minister said — and that was mentioned in his electoral programme — that, and I quote, "we must overcome this absurd situation more and more of the age of reform". Mr. Prime Minister has been running for two years and has just published a portal that increases the retirement age. Mr. Prime Minister cultivates the absurdity? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u59	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that you have not yet understood that the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and Portuguese companies does not go through the crushing of wages or the destruction of rights, but, for four years, you have wanted to convince the country that it was. When we made the first increase in the national minimum wage, the PSD announced the flight of investments and the increase in the unemployment rate due to the increase in the national minimum wage. However, the national minimum wage rose in 2016, in 2017 and 2018 and the unemployment rate did not increase, on the contrary, decreased, and the investment has continued to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] While you do not realize that today the essential factors of competitiveness have to do with qualification and innovation, while you do not realize that in order to have qualification and innovation in a company there must be quality employment, because only with quality employment is that it is fixed and attracts quality frameworks and the frameworks needed to support innovation while feeding your view of the labour market, VV. They will be part of the blocking forces of the modernisation of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, our vision is different. In fact, adopting in the law what clarifys and consolidates what already results from the interpretation of various judicial decisions is positive, because it makes legislation transparent and clear. In fact, for us, modernization and progress are not due to the decline or disqualification of human resources, which are fundamental to any company and to the development of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u61	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a real problem with reality. You didn't hear anyone from this bench say what you wanted to accuse us of.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u63	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u64	You came here to learn a great economic model of wage increases, but I wonder if Mr. Prime Minister has not studied and has not seen the data that are known. Low wages are rising. I mean, it's the opposite of what you say. Unfortunately, his entire narrative is actually barred.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u65	The average wage has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u66	But the big problem is another, Mr. Prime Minister. A little while ago, I asked you a very direct question and I'm asking you again now. In August 2015 Mr. Prime Minister said the retirement age was absurd to continue to increase. I confronted you with a decision from your government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u67	It's not a decision, it's a direct application of the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u68	... and now « shake the water from the hood», flees, inconsistencies, makes reliable conversation and does not answer the question. Mr. Prime Minister, he ruled two years ago, the retirement age has increased again...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u69	It's a direct application of the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u70	...and you had classified that as an absurd. I ask again: will you or will you not cultivate this absurd? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u71	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the principle. National minimum wage: increased by 15 % in the last three years;... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating conditions for a quieter debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u74	... salaries in collective bargaining: increased by 2, 6 % last year; new salaries: valuation of almost 6 %, according to the Labour Compensation Fund; average remuneration according to social security contributions: increased by 2, 8 % compared to 2017. So, honourable Member, all salaries have increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you will well know, the most important structural reform of social security was done by a socialist government and introduced an essential factor, which is the indexation of the age of reform to the increase of life expectancy, through the sustainability factor. The increase referred to is the resultant of this law, a law that has been passed, a law that has never been changed, a law that remains in force, a law that has always been pointed out as an example of good social security reform. [[PSD protests.]] The good reform that we will maintain is the one that contributes to the sustainability of social security;... [[PSD protests.]] ...it's not the reform that VV. They wanted, which meant not increasing sustainability but cutting rights, with a new cut of EUR 600 million in pensions already paying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u75	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u76	Mr President, Prime Minister, the country knows today that everything Mr. Prime Minister says in election campaign is worth zero. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u77	You, in an election campaign, said with a pump and circumstance that this law, which was increasing the age of reform, was absurd. I've finished quoting, I haven't invented, I've read your words...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u78	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u79	Mr. Prime Minister, don't say I didn't say. Mr. Prime Minister has to be more careful with the words, because these words are yours and relate to the increase in the retirement age. It's not worth denying. The Portuguese have to know that what they say, in an election campaign, that it is absurd is even a word given that it is not absolutely honest. [[PSD applause.]] But that's not all. Mr. Prime Minister, also in an election campaign—it's not all worth an election campaign and, see, it's not even here to win the elections! -,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... said: « If there is no more public investment than private investment, we will not have to invest again and we will not grow on a sustained basis ». He also said that Mr. Prime Minister, in August 2015 : « We cannot postpone the structural investment, which produces effects in the medium term. It was a mistake to demonize...’ — look at the devil! — «... which has been made of public investment and, in particular, of the channels of communication ». Mr. Prime Minister, in two years you had less public investment than the previous government in 2015
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u80	Like Socrates's QREN!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u81	See, Prime Minister : Just a short time ago, he pointed out numbers in how we got beyond what we had planned and still made more public investment than his government in 2016 and 2017. The questions I'd like you to answer are two, and they're simple. In 2017, you fell below EUR 850 million of what was planned to be spent on public investment. First question: how much would the deficit be if it had spent the 850 million planned? Second question: where did you not spend these EUR 850 million? Otherwise, what would you have planned to do with these EUR 850 million, which you have not done? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u82	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is neither the Socialist Party's electoral programme nor the Socialist Party's Government Programme, and certainly there is no statement of my commitment to changing the social security law to eliminate the sustainability factor and hinder any progress, nor the increase in the retirement age. The only compromise we have made — which we have indeed fulfilled — was the possibility of early reform, without penalty, for long-term contributions, of which 4,000 people have already benefited. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for public investment, what we said is what we kept. On the other hand, in terms of communications, the largest investment in the last decade is being awarded, which is the entire southern corridor in the railway, because it is indeed a structural and essential element to leverage the whole private investment and to help companies to be able to internationalise themselves. Yes, that investment is being made. You want to compare the budget with the executed, but we all know that in no year does any government fully comply with what is budgeted. But I am telling you what I said to Mrs Cristian Mrs: last year, we executed less than 800 million than we had planned, but VV. Ex. in 2015, they executed less than 1000 million and in 2014 minus 1100 million. That's the difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u84	Mr Hugo Soares is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u85	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will once again arrive at the end of the debate and you are unable to answer a question. Look: « Costa promises to stop the age of reform »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u86	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u87	« We must end this absurd situation by increasing the age of reform ». Whoever said it wasn't António Costa, it must have been another gentleman... How much was the deficit if it had spent the EUR 850 million and what was to be done in 2017? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u88	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to be doing an arithmetic exercise here. It knows GDP (gross domestic product) and it is a matter of accounting. [[PSD protests.]] But there is one thing you know: since the general nature of public investment is financed by Community funds, the increase in investment expenditure would certainly also be an increase in Community revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u90	Again, the use of the floor to Mr Hugo Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, how much would the deficit be, then? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u92	Mr. Prime Minister, you still have time to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u93	Mr President, honourable Member, what is expected of the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) to come up with, without any impact from the General Deposit Box, should be 1,2 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u94	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u95	Mr Prime Minister, and if you had executed, as you should, the EUR 850 million, how much would the deficit be?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u96	Mr. Prime Minister, you still have time for a telegraphic answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u97	It has already been answered, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u98	Mr. Hugo Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u99	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have already noticed that your bench applauds zero and nothing. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister can't answer. It's not worth it! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister cannot answer for two reasons: first, because he does not know, and second, because he knows that if he hadn't captured this public investment, we wouldn't have hospitals at risk today, as we have,... [[PS protests.]] ...we wouldn't have the problems in the areas of sovereignty, as we have. Mr Prime Minister is hiding behind all of this with the applause of his bench, which applauds — see there — when he does not respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u100	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. But what really matters is not the applause of your bench — that you will always have. The problem is the country that's listening to us. And the country was once again today, knowing that it has an improvised Prime Minister, who is unable to answer the questions that the opposition raises. [[PS protests.]] It is the Prime Minister who needs an extension to come, in the following debates, to respond to the other benches,... [[PSD applause.]] ... is the Prime Minister who does not have the frontality to assume the consequences of his policies—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u102	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u103	... I shall finish, Mr President — and it is the Prime Minister who adds to all of this the fact that he is taking the country into a government 'in view' and that he gives everything to all for one purpose: to maintain management in power, knowing that this is harming the sovereign interests of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u104	You still have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u105	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, as we know, verbal aggression is directly proportional to the lack of reason for the arguments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, honourable Member, with regard to the area of health, I will only give you an example of how strengthening investment in health during 2017 allowed the government and the state to begin...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u106	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u107	Mr President, I will try not to spend more time than Mr Hugo Soares has spent. We therefore have the launch of the four hospitals, the one in Eastern Lisbon, the one in Sintra, the one in Évora and the one in Seixal ;... [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u108	... the construction of the hospital center of Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho ; the remodeling of the operating block of the district hospital of Figueira da Foz ; the remodeling of the operating block of the hospital center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro ; the remodeling of the operating block of the hospital clinic of Braganza ; the remodeling of the emergencies of the hospital center of Between Douro and Vouga ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u109	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u110	... the remodeling of the urgents of the Barreiro Montijo Hospital Centre ; the remodeling of the urgents of the hospitals of the University of Coimbra ; the remodeling of the urgents of the Down Vouga Hospital Centre ; the expansion and capacity of the Center for Rehabilitation Medicine of the Central Region ;... [[PSD protests.]] ... the acquisition of the linear accelerator of the IPO (English Institute of Oncology ) of Lisbon ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u111	Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u112	...and could continue if you had time, Mr. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u113	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u114	To what effect, Mr Hugo Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u115	He wants an extension!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u116	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u117	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u118	Mr President, I did not want to raise any objection to which Mr Prime Minister could use the floor until I imagined that he would try to answer something, which he did not, either. The truth is, when Mr. Prime Minister used the word last time, time was not cut off. What I wanted to say is that I have no problem with that, because, once again, Mr. Prime Minister... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u119	Mr President, you would like to make the request directly if you would like to.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u120	Of course, Mr. President. As the Prime Minister once again said, he sought, at the discounts, to try to match what he did not achieve during the debate. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u121	by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, you have the floor to ask questions, Mr António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Prime Minister, 2017 was a year of reaffirmation of the National Health Service ( SNS ) as the main instrument of health policy at the service of citizens. Fundamentally, through strengthening public funding; promoting territorial equity; extending and proximity to the provision of services; developing and modernising its operational, human and technical resources. We know what the National Health Service was like that we found in 2015 and we know the way we're going until today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2016 and 2017, the Government adopted a human resources policy based on criteria for the planning of needs ; it defended and strengthened the constitutional matrix of the organization of care provision based on the centrality of the SNS ; it assigned family physicians to more than 500 000 citizens; and strengthened the full coverage commitment to the end of the legislature. Mr. Prime Minister, 2016 and 2017 were years of return of hope to the Portuguese. In 2015, Portugal occupied 20. the place in the ranking of European health services, between 35 countries. In 2017, Mrs Deputy — and not in 2014 — and according to the recent Health Consumer Index, Portugal is today no 14. the place in front of countries such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy or Ireland. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is very positive in indicators such as: involvement of patients in decisions; access to cancer therapy; infant mortality; controlled renal and diabetic transplants; reduction of mortality before 65 years of age. The performance of the SNS, internationally evaluated, has once again demonstrated excellent results according to the competence of professionals, the organization of services and health policies. But, Prime Minister, of course we need to improve. We need to improve access to the family doctor on the same day, direct access to a specialist, the percentage of hospital infections, the waiting times for complementary examinations, the rates of cesarean sections, the waiting times for scheduled surgery. To look with democratic humility at what we need to do is to look at the future with a new requirement, a new ambition and a new commitment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u123	Mr. Prime Minister, we know that this opposition looks at health with an economic-liberal vision. We look at health with an economic and social vision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This opposition looks at health in order to capitalize politically on the mediation of the case, we look at health in order to decide on the quality of life of our citizens. It is appropriate to say, Mr. Prime Minister, « when the wise man points to the moon, the ignorant look at the finger». [[P.S.'s applause.]] This opposition, PSD / CDS, looked at the finger when it closed emergency services, looked at the finger when it rose moderate rates, looked at the finger when it removed participation to medication and weakened fringes from our population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, the opposition continues to look at the finger when it persists in the narrative of misfortune, knowing that reality today is much better than in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Prime Minister, the current government, in compliance with its Programme and in the face of numerous immediate needs and deficiencies, has been giving priority to the area of health, with the strengthening of budgetary funds dedicated to SNS, the acceleration of the authorisation of therapeutic innovation processes, the admission of 6000 new professionals, the replacement of working hours and the remuneration of professionals, the defreezing of careers, the reduction of moderate rates, the investment plan in new hospitals and health centres. Mr. Prime Minister, 30 years ago, men and women aged 60 and 70 were the patients who filled out our emergency services; today, these men aged 60 and 70 accompany their parents, aged 90 and 95. This is the true pattern of demographic transition, the pair of low births. This is our main challenge in the future. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister: is the government in a position to strengthen access, improve readiness and consolidate the quality of the service provided, in a framework of responsible budgetary balance, associated with social sensitivity in 2018? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u124	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u125	Mr President, Mr António Sales, you are a doctor and, therefore, you know from your own experience what we are talking about here. And indeed, what is very expensive to the right today is that we have been able to introduce, step by step, improvements in the functioning of the National Health Service, while achieving a healthy reduction in the budget deficit, which was the alpha and the omega of its policy and which have only been able to carry out at the cost of cutting pensions, cutting wages and brutal disinvestment in public services. It is clear that the accumulation of this brutal disinvestment today has an increased cost, in terms of replacement, so much of what we find is what we have not yet been able to reverse what has been deteriorating over four years of prolonged deinvestment. What we have to do is continue to give answers, and to give answers in different ways. No one mentioned here, but in the first year we reduced the moderate rates borne by users of the National Health Service by 25%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just as we are corresponding to this new demographic profile, giving priority, alongside primary care, to the development of continued care. Therefore, every year, we have managed to increase in 600 beds the number of beds associated with continuing care, and we are diversifying the supply, in particular to cover mental health, because we are well aware that this change in the demographic profile increases the prevalence, particularly of dementias, which require another type of continuous care. It's for that reality that we're working on. We don't live in a pink world, we don't get to the place we want to get to, but we don't abdicate the dream of realizing the National Health Service that the Portuguese deserve and the right one because health is a fundamental right of all and all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u126	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I do not resist to make a comment to what Mr Hugo Soares said, although he is not here, and to the PSD, saying the following, we will all be here if God wants, in 2019 to compare the election promises of the Socialist Party and what he implemented in this legislature versus the PSD electoral promises and what he implemented in the past legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We'll be here to compare! It takes a little bit of stink! But I do not come to talk about the past, I come to talk about the future, and the future has something to do with the World Economic Forum of Davos, where Mr. Prime Minister and a large Portuguese comitus. Moreover, this year, the Forum had a great worldwide representation, since the United States was present, contrary to what happened last year, like China. I'd like to know, Mr. Prime Minister, with what feeling he came from Davos,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u128	The climate here is better, at all levels!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u129	... in terms of the importance of Europe as a fundamental actor in the European economic and geopolitical concert and also to what extent the contacts made there may lead to some investment in Portugal in the future. With regard to investment, because I will focus, above all, on investment, we all know that it depends on government stability, social peace, fiscal stability, a robust and effective banking system and an efficient justice system. What we did in the first part of the Parliament was precisely that, namely to ensure political stability and the sanitation of the financial system and to consolidate public finances. Looking at the second part of the Parliament, what is fundamental, in fact, is investment. And the investment has three aspects: public investment, national private investment and foreign direct investment. As I anticipated that Mrs. Assunción Cristos would bring a chart, she also brought another chart, but apologizing for not being as good as her. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a chart.]] The graph, obviously, is not for the government, it is basically for the CDS and PSD, and it is very easy to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u130	They're short-sighted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u131	This graph refers to the ratio of public investment in GDP and shows what happened in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. In other words, in very simple words, all economists and all people know that when a government needs to make budgetary consolidation, it dramatically cuts public investment. This has been done! We are now returning to public investment, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u132	And go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u133	Obviously, public investment will not arrive and therefore we need national private investment and foreign direct investment, which will boost economic growth and employment. Having said this, the fundamental questions are these, Prime Minister : what, either in the perspective of contacts made, eventually in Davos, or what is being done, at the moment, by the Government, will promote private investment and foreign direct investment? In fact, the fundamental question that will be put in the second part of the Parliament is economic growth because economic growth generates employment and social well-being. And in addition to continuing the correct trajectory, and that all Portuguese recognise the consolidation of public finances, the redistribution of income and the replacement of rights which this Government has fulfilled in the first part of the legislature, we in the PS, the Parliamentary Group and the Government in this second part of the legislature are committed to promoting growth, investment and employment and for this it is essential that this stimulus be given to investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u134	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u135	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, the improvement of the world economy obviously increases opportunities for the internationalisation of our economy and we will continue to grow on the basis of exports. Exports have grown 11 % in the last year and we have had the ability to maintain an increasing attractiveness of foreign investment. I can tell you that at the moment they are being processed at AICEP ( Portugal's Foreign Investment and Trade Agency ), about EUR 1000 million of foreign direct investment intentions in Portugal. First of all, this foreign direct investment began with companies that many tens of years ago, some up to a century ago, are in Portugal, that is, companies that know us well and therefore rely on our country. I mean companies like Siemens, Bosch, Continental / Mabor, Volkswagen, which have continuously increased their investments in Portugal. And it is important that this is the case, because the attraction of foreign direct investment helps to overcome the lack of national capital and it is a strong contribution for us to invest. Secondly, it is essential that national companies have better conditions to invest. The first priority we have set in this Government was therefore to implement Community funds for companies. It should never be forgotten that only EUR 4 million of Community funds for investment support had been reached on the day the previous government ceased to function. The first goal set, and which I announced here in the government programme debate, was that in the first 100 days we will put EUR 100 million in companies. And we've done it! We then moved on to the target of EUR 400 million by the end of the year. The next goal, last year, was to manage EUR 1000 million, and this goal was not achieved in December, was reached in September, which is why last year we managed to put EUR 1350 million in investment support companies. The goal we have for this year, and we are working towards it, is that this investment support is EUR 2000 million. Apart from the Community funds, the stabilization of the financial system was absolutely crucial. We all remember what the state of our financial system was when the previous government ceased to function.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u136	And when did it start? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u137	Only so that we should not forget that at the time we were taking possession of it was Mr. Governor of the Banco de Portugal informing the ECB of the urgent need to resolve Banif, for the state of abandonment to which he had been voted by the previous government. But we have done more: we have launched the Capitalisation Programme, because it is essential that companies strengthen their own capital so that they can also benefit from access to the financial system. We need to unlock the vicious cycle in which banks do not lend, because they do not have the capacity, and companies do not borrow, because they do not have the capacity to hire funding. What we have done was precisely to respond to this need, creating better conditions with the Capitalisation Programme to strengthen companies' own capitals in order to be able to invest. What have we done? We have also worked to continuously increase markets and export conditions. And we have done this, in particular in the field of agriculture, where we have already opened up a number of markets which were closed, so that various national agricultural or livestock productions can find new markets for exports. We have made a great effort for exports to continue to grow: last year they have already represented 43% of our gross domestic product and what we have set as our goal in the internationalisation programme that we have recently adopted is that they have reached 50 % of gross domestic product representation over the next few years. It is in this sense that we must continue to work and, for that reason, the European Union has a very important role to play, especially at this time, in which some great powers, such as the United States, have adopted a protectionist attitude towards international trade. The European Union has a great opportunity here to boost international trade and that is why we have insisted on the rapid conclusion of negotiations with Mercosur, as an absolutely priority, because the agreement with Mercosur allows a new transatlantic dimension to Europe's relations, which cannot be exhausted in the CETA (Global Economic and Trade Agreement) with Canada or the frozen trade agreement with the United States, should first be opened to a core of countries with which Portugal, moreover, has close relations and with those who share participation in the Ibero-American community. To have a notion, the agreement with Mercosur is worth eight times the agreement with Canada and four times the agreement that is in negotiations with Japan. It is a huge potential for the European economy, it is a huge potential for the Portuguese economy, and that is why it is very important for us that Europe continues to strengthen its ability to assert its own, autonomous trade policy and to dynamize international trade, to help, of course, in our efforts to continue to internationalise our economy. But there is something that is absolutely essential for all Portuguese society to understand, for companies to understand and for political players to understand: our competitiveness can no longer be based on an exhausted model of low wages and low value products. Our competitiveness can only be based on value-added products and services, and for this it is essential to invest in innovation and technological integration. For this to be possible, the qualification of human resources is essential. In order to have quality human resources, we must have quality jobs, because no one invests in training on the basis of precarious work, such as not attracting qualified resources at the expense of low wages, and that is why it is not enough to increase the minimum wage. It is necessary for the national average wage to rise, because only in this way will we be able to attract to Portugal the talent we need,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and, of course, the new generations, in whose formation we are investing today and who have to have the opportunity to find and build their future here in Portugal, because it is the one who invests in their formation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u138	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u139	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about wages, but I would like to leave you a brief note first. The CDS talked about health, which is a matter of concern to us. But, we understand, to talk about funding health and the SNS (National Health Service), the CDS first invited a director of a private hospital, the Hospital da Luz, and then the president of the Association of Private Hospitals, to say what he wanted to do. So, let's agree, for the CDS the solution is to sell or offer the SNS to the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There are other ways! And there are paths that must be realized in this legislature, with this majority, as the law of bases that propose us António Arnaut and João Semedo. There are also very specific problems that need your intervention, Prime Minister. The Minister of Health has open negotiations to resolve urgent problems with medical, nursing, pharmaceutical, technical and auxiliary personnel. In all these cases, the negotiations have taken no place and, therefore, in our view, it is more than at the time of the Prime Minister to intervene directly in this area. Mr. Prime Minister, very quickly, with regard to pensions, I heard you talk about the sustainability factor. I think we all agree that sustainability is something we are concerned about when we talk about social security and reform. Mr Prime Minister tells us that the age of reform increases because it increases life expectancy and thus guarantees the sustainability of the system. Well, before the previous government, on the right, the age of the reform was fixed and there was a rate on the sustainability that deduced part of the reform to which it was requested before that age, which was fixed. Now, we have the age of reform always moving forward and people have to pay the rate of sustainability at the same time if they cannot wait until they are 66 years and 5 months to retire.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u141	Therefore, at this time, sustainability penalizes those who have worked and contributed all their lives in three ways: on the one hand, the retirement age is increasingly distant; on the other hand, if the person does not endure working until that age, which is increasingly distant, paid, to the head, 14, 5 % cut in the pension with the rate of sustainability; and then still pays 0, 5 % per month in advance of the retirement age. That is why the Left Bloc has given Parliament a proposal — we hope to see it approved and that the government will move forward with what it has promised — in order to end the sustainability rate for those who are already 40 years old and 60 years old. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] The same people who have worked their entire lives cannot be punished three times. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Prime Minister, the subject we would like to address in this fortnight debate is that of wage stagnation, which, for us, is a very important issue. Currently, in Portugal, there are two studies on wages, one academic and the other of the government, and the two converge in the analysis that there is wage stagnation. It's with that data that we have to act. Comparing wages on a nominal basis, as the Minister of Finance did yesterday, makes no sense. You don't have to be an economist to know that 100 €, 5 years ago, aren't worth the same as today. That is why, in the study by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, there is a wage stagnation, because wage developments are only 0, 6 %. We know that the payroll has increased 6 %, that is what the social security contributions show, but what that tells us is that employment has been created, it does not tell us that wages have improved. It is true that when employment is created, as there are new contracts that typically have lower wages than longer contracts, this has some effect on wage composition, but it is also true that the national minimum wage increased by 5 % per year, and therefore if we are going to speculate on these factors, we can also say that there were layers in which the wage fell, certainly, when there was stagnation. The proposal we make, Prime Minister, is that we do not speculate, look at the facts. And the only official study that exists is that of the government, which says there is wage stagnation. And he says more: he also says that there is a huge prevalence of long-term contracts in Portugal, which doubles in the case of young contracts. Mr Prime Minister, who speaks so much and well of the importance of qualifications in Portugal, does it not seem to you that if we do not move in labour legislation to combat precariousness and value wages and if we continue to offer to the more qualified generation of unremunerated internships or contracts over the period of €600 or €700 the qualifications go outside the country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u142	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u143	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the CDS and health we understand: when there is a case of legionella in a public hospital, it is the fault of the seizures, when there is a case of legionella in a private hospital, the blame remains for the captures of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the standard regarding the concern the CDS has and the seriousness with which it addresses this matter. As far as the question of the labour market is concerned, it will be recalled that, both in the Christmas message and in the first intervention I made in the Assembly this year, I said that the great plan we have to have for this year is that of improving employment. We are growing, we are having greater equality, we are having better jobs, but we cannot be satisfied with the quality of the job we have. The quality of employment needs to be improved in a number of ways: it needs to be more stable and better paid. That is the only way we can effectively fix not only these new generations, but also exactly repay those who are already on the labour market today. The numbers we have officially show that it is not only the national minimum wage that has risen above inflation. All wages have risen above inflation and we must strengthen the improvement of remuneration. But something very important has come about: it is usually when, after there are great increases in unemployment, there is a resumption of the labour market, it is based, above all, on precarious contracts. What we know today is that 78 % of the 288 000 new jobs created in net terms were not created on the basis of term contracts but rather on the basis of final contracts. This is an important improvement in the labour market itself. We must respond to the new generations and to the old generations. We have certainly tried to respond to the legislation that we have already passed and which is already in force for the first phase of the longest contribution careers. We know that we have a way to go and we will surely go through it in this legislature. We must also look at the new generations. We then began to look at changing active employment policies, so that they would not eternalize the mechanisms of mere internships, replacing real jobs, but instead to encourage contracts with final contracts. Secondly, we are preparing, as we have scheduled, between this month and next, a set of legislative initiatives that have to do with the labour market, namely the one that differentiates the contribution to social security according to the nature of the contract and the introduction of the figure of the generation contract, which simultaneously responds to these two realities: the need to combat young unemployment more strongly and to find new solutions for those who have been working for years. The generation contract does not allow for early reforms, but, in any event, allows partial access to the reform, as a counterpart to the full-time recruitment of a young worker, with a final contract. It is this balance and this generational solidarity that is important, in order to reduce the shock of the break of activity to inactivity, to allow a better generational transition within companies, to have a better combination between academic qualification, which tend to be higher in those who are younger, and the qualification of experience and knowledge acquired by the work of older generations. This transition within the company itself helps to create younger jobs and to allow a smoother transition from those who have been on the labour market for more years to the retirement period. It is the set of these changes that we have to make. We must continue to work to continue to improve our labour market and the quality of work in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u144	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have concrete instruments to value wages and to combat precariousness. Some of them are included in the Government Programme. The fight against long-term contracts is contained in the Government Programme for all generations. Future contracts in Portugal — this is not a matter of opinion, it is a matter of fact — weigh twice as much as they weigh in the rest of the European Union. So we have a problem. And if the Socialist Party fears to move into the labour legislation in Brussels afraid of knowing that, in relation to future contracts, until Brussels it already says that we have to move. It is therefore at the time of the government to act. Just as it is at the time of the government to act in the fight against temporary work, which is part of the study we have done on the fight against precariousness together, the Government, the Socialist Party and the Left Block. It's time to move on. in fact, most people in this country, as the data from the Ministry of Labour say, do not see their salary valued. And when we think that wages, even in unfinished contracts, have lost at least 16 % in troika times, we know that the popular expectation that this political cycle also corresponds to an effective improvement in the living conditions of the workers' generality is not being realized, and we have to realize it. So it's a government choice. More important than concealing wage stagnation is solving the problem of wage stagnation, going to the measures to change the labour code, which can value all wages. And there is a majority in this Parliament to do this job! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I end by asking you one last question on another subject: the Tejo. Official analyses confirm the responsibility of celluloses, and in particular Celtejo in river pollution. The Block presented repeated initiatives here to reduce the production of Celtejo to its ability to treat effluents, measures that were plunged by CDS, PSD, PS and PCP. Now it looks like we were right. The government has even forced the production of Celtejo to be reduced for 10 days. The question that we ask is the following: what happened these 10 days? Was this just a cosmetic operation or is Celtejo actually going to be forced to reduce production to its effluent treatment capacity? I think it was very important that, in this debate, there was a clear word from the Prime Minister to tell the people that they are going to defend life in the largest river in the country. This requires a very strong word to stop the production of celluloses, whose effluents are not treated and are, of course, guilty of the situation we are living in. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u146	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u147	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all it is always very comforting to know that we can count on your support and on your energy to implement the Government Programme. That's what we're going to do. We would do it - we would do it anyway, but with your energy we will certainly do even better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u148	I don't know if they will!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u149	That is why, as I explained, we will present, between this month and next, a set of legislative initiatives that we have to combat precariousness and that are provided for in the Government Programme, namely the differentiation of contributions to social security according to the nature of the employment contract. That's what we're going to do. We will therefore continue to dynamize collective bargaining, because a fundamental condition for strengthening and having a good evolution of wage conditions is to strengthen collective bargaining. That is why we have already been able to increase the number of collective contracts and that is why, last year, we have speeded up the extension doors so as to extend the number of workers covered by collective bargaining. This is a dynamic we must continue. As a result of this negotiation last year, the average wage salary negotiated in collective bargaining increased by 2, 6 %, with an inflation of 1, 4 %, which means a real increase of 1, 2 % in all the wages covered by collective bargaining and extension portfolios, consequently. As regards the Tejo River, the analyses carried out are clear about the responsibility of the cellulose industry. The precautionary measure that has been adopted will necessarily have continuity if no change occurs. One thing we are going to do is change the discharge licenses because existing ones are not indexed at the level of the Tejo flows. What we have verified is that, although these discharges comply with the license, with the new climate conditions and, in particular, with the levels of rainfall and hydrological, we have a lower flow rate than the treatment capacity that should have for the quantity of effluents that are being downloaded. That is why we anticipate the need to change these discharge licences so that they no longer take into account the capacity that the river has, and which necessarily varies according to the hydrological conditions, in order to proceed with the treatment and dilution of the effluents themselves without they deposit themselves, as they have deposited, in the albums of the two dams, in particular in the barrier of the Fratel. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u150	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, the consequences of the privatization of the strategic sectors of our economy and public service and its delivery to large economic groups are increasingly worrying about the lives of people and the provision of essential public services. We see this in the very grave situation of CTTs, with the degradation of the postal service and the closure of service posts, in the name of the maximum profit of the shareholder. It is also seen in the manner in which PT Altice behaves and in the way in which it refuses the replacement of the public service to which it is obliged in the territories devastated by forest fires. Almost four months ago, Mr. Prime Minister, that many of our villages devastated by fires await fixed communication links, internet, fixed telephone, television. Four months without communications is an unacceptable situation not to say it is a scandal. However, the company decided to replace the old network, copper, fiber optics and, in the locations where the connection is coming, it refuses to reposition the service, saying that it is not required and requiring users to pay the links to their homes and activities. in the case of users refusing, it took as a good opinion their opinion and says : « Change operator ». That can't be the answer. PT Altice is the owner of MEO, it must guarantee the replacement of the public service to which it is obliged. This is a right that people have, it is not a problem that pushes themselves to resolve the regulator. It is a problem that requires intervention by the government itself. This is a public service that should not be privatized, but must be guaranteed. The question we are asking is what measures is the government going to take to speed up the links and ensure that everyone is replaced without any additional costs. You can't be, Prime Minister. We are filling the mouths of development, of support for the interior, of combating desertification, and then, in relation to concrete things, to the concrete life of people in the interior is not answered, given this situation that I have just described. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u153	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, we have been negotiating with the Altice for several months the conditions for replacing the normality of the situation. From the outset, the priority was the wiring that supports emergency communications after last summer the fragility of a dependent system based on a network of air cables became quite evident. This went through the obligation of burial, the obligation to create redundancy in the system in order to ensure that in the future we will not have situations of failure of emergency communications. With regard to coverage, we are subject to the obligations and powers conferred on the regulatory authority of the communications services, and it is up to that entity to verify compliance with the conditions of service delivery by the dealers and in particular by the PT. That is what comes from our legal framework and the government can do no more than try to raise awareness, except in those areas where it is a contracting party and can effectively force the counterpart to do what is necessary, as is the case with the replacement of emergency communications. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u154	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, your answer does not rest anyone, at least it does not rest to us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u156	Not to me either!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u157	... taking into account what a citizen of the area of Anadia told us: « They are asking me for 900 m of fiber optics! Do not keep on seeking. ” How will the problem be solved? I believe that, in this sense, your answer, being round, does not convince me, nor does it, of course, convince me who is in this dramatic situation. Mr Prime Minister, in the past two years, it has been possible to interrupt some of the most gross aspects of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that he had long made his way. The income recovery policy, although limited, was positive for the workers and also increased the economy and employment. This positive impact cannot be underestimated, but neither can we close our eyes to the negative traits that remain and continue to develop in Portuguese labour and social reality. There is no study developed in recent times, including those officially produced, whose data on the evolution of work and employment in our country do not reveal the average stagnation of real wages and the growth of work precariousness. There are problems that have answered beyond what was necessary, as is the case with the process of integration of public administration workers with precarious links, which threatens to be eternalized, or with the very low values resulting from the way the government is realising the defrosting of career progression. Other serious problems remain, such as the deregulation of working hours, dismissal processes, relocations, insolvency of companies that leave workers unprotected. These are negative traits that are inseparable from labour legislation that in recent years has been profoundly altered to worse by successive governments, including the previous PSD / CDS, which has made them worse. The defence of workers' rights goes a long way beyond changing labour law, but this is an important component which cannot be devalued and which does not help to make general considerations. It is necessary to make choices which, in particular, translate into better working conditions, into a fairer distribution of wealth for workers. Tomorrow, a proposal from the CFP will be put to the vote to restore the payment of the extraordinary work and work on a holiday. Others will follow in particular to overcome this serious problem of expiry in collective labour conventions which is used as a blackmail on workers for the withdrawal of rights and the elimination of the principle of more favourable treatment for workers. Mr Prime Minister, do you not believe that it is time for you to change your position, tackle the serious problems resulting from the imbalances caused by deep unfair labour legislation, starting tomorrow by approving the proposal that we will bring about the debate? We'll wait for them to come with us. We already know the PSD won't... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u158	It's in your genius! You're perfectly aware of the parts and the initial intervention! But we hope that we will follow this as a first step in a new cycle of the replacement of legitimate incomes and rights that contribute to reverse the serious situation of job degradation that has been created. I am also worthy of the argument made by the Prime Minister: the replacement of income and rights has enabled economic development and employment growth. There you are, Prime Minister. What to do, then? Stop? Step back? Or to move forward in the sense of progress and social justice that is due to workers? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u160	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I did not try to convince you of anything, I merely said what the reality is. If I wonder if I consider reality to be good, I say no, that reality is bad. It is absolutely regrettable that a company has not yet been able to restore the conditions of service in recent months. However, the State has responded to its response: it has responded in support of the reconstruction of the first dwellings; it has responded in relation to support for the replacement of municipal equipment; it has responded in relation to the replacement of the productive capacity of farmers; it has responded in relation to the need for feeding of animals that were left without pasture; it has responded in respect of support for the companies that were destroyed. He has responded, trying to support the maintenance of jobs even in companies that are not working. However, it is not up to us, above all, to finance companies that provide public services and are not currently doing what they have to do. That doesn't seem like we should do it anymore. Do you think that's wrong? Oh, my God! I also think, and I don't mean to convince you of anything. But this is the reality. And the person responsible for statutory supervision of the fulfilment of concession contracts is not to the government, but to the regulatory entity. I hope that the regulatory entity will properly monitor how these contracts are or are not met. More importantly, there is a very important data. We all know that economic growth is necessary for job creation, but there is another dimension that is also true: job creation contributes to economic growth. One of the key factors for economic growth that we have had in the past two years is that we have been able — the Portuguese society — with the new policy guidelines that this majority has set out, to create more than 288 000 jobs in net terms. This dynamic is very important! And the dynamic of job creation has been based, above all, on stable employment and not on precarious employment: 78 % of these contracts are endless contracts. That there is a great prevalence of term contracts in Portugal is true, and that is why it is contained in the Government Programme as a priority a set of measures to combat precariousness, both in the private sector and in the public sector. in the public sector, this integration process is under way. We've done it in careers like teachers and we're doing it now in the rest of the careers. It may not be at the speed we all wanted it to be, but we have found that it has been difficult to identify in many situations what is the effective nature of the work relationship and, therefore, the process has been slower. But it's not because it's slower than it stops happening! Like I said, well, the way is not to walk back, nor to stand by. The way is to walk forward! This is what we will continue to do in the fight against precariousness, in the improvement of the national minimum wage, in the dynamisation of collective bargaining, with the introduction of the youth contract with a view to creating new and better conditions for combating youth unemployment and a better transition from longer careers to part-time reform. That is where we must continue to invest to improve the quality of work. I do not want to repeat what I have already had the opportunity to say recently in response to colleagues from other banks, but it is absolutely clear to me that improving the quality of employment is essential for us to have a model of development based on innovation. This is because there is no model based on innovation, nor is the modern economy based on precariousness, low wages and the destruction of rights. That is not the economy we want and, more importantly, that labour market is what makes it impossible for companies to exist and for the modernisation of the economy that we all have to want and for which we must continue to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u161	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u162	So, if you ask me if we're going to walk back, if we're going to stay step-by-step or if we're going to move on, I'm going to say 'we're going to move on and, of course, together! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u163	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u164	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens have repeatedly brought the issue of Tejo pollution to the Assembly of the Republic. Furthermore, a draft resolution by the Greens was adopted giving an indication to the Government of a set of measures to be taken, just to combat this pollution index in the Tejo. Also at the initiative of the Greens, the Minister for the Environment has often come to the Assembly of the Republic to answer on this matter, and what the Minister of the Environment has assured us is that they have increased the supervision and the means of supervision in the Tejo — there are more monitoring stations, more analyses and more inspection. But the right thing, Prime Minister, is that we also often deal with these episodes of severe and intense pollution on the Roof. And these serious episodes of pollution in Tejo obviously affect their ecosystem, but they also have a negative direct influence on various activities that generate jobs, such as agriculture, fishing, leisure tourism, sport, among many others. Mr. Prime Minister has already said so today, the fact is that the latest analyses indicate that, in this last episode of pollution, which is suddenly known, the responsibility of the celluloses. And Celtejo, Navigator and Paper Prime continue to say that they have no responsibility and, from here we see only two possible situations: either these companies are violating discharge licenses and, in this case, we are asking ourselves about the means of supervision that exist, or these companies are fulfilling the discharge licenses and here, Prime Minister, the government becomes complicit, absolutely complicit, of this pollution. But on these two hypotheses, Mr Prime Minister has already answered, saying: we are going to change the discharge licenses, because they are not appropriate. But we need to say more: when will these licenses be altered?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u165	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a slight correction, but it is very important to understand what we are talking about: this was not an episode of pollution, this was a situation where an accumulated and hidden set of pollution was revealed, because what the analyses revealed was not that there was a failure in the drainage system, nor an excessive discharge. What the analyses have revealed is that this phenomenon, which has now come to the water tone, literally, results from sediments that have been accumulated for years in those albums and that, now, in a conjugation of phenomena — low flow, rain and increased discharges — suddenly came to the water tone. I'd say, I'm glad we felt the fever to realize there was an infection! And, therefore, we have to do two things: what we are already doing, which is starting the dredgings from the trees to remove the sediments that are accumulated, and fitting the discharge licenses to the existing tails,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u167	And when will those licenses be adequate?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u168	...because what happens is that today, with the tails we have, the Tejo does not have enough water to get and treat the effluents it is receiving. So we have to reduce these effluents and now that the analyses have been made and the causes identified, we will necessarily act on the agents in order to suit these licences. Ask me when? », I cannot tell you when, I can tell you that we are acting immediately so that these changes to licences can be made as quickly as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u169	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u170	Mr Prime Minister is right, it is a continuing phenomenon, but I called him "an episode" on purpose. You know why, Prime Minister? Because these are the times when the intense pollution that the Tagus has is revealed, and the times when this intensity has been revealed have been several, but the government is only acting now and we have called it, much, to the responsibility for this action. Do you know why I asked 'when', Mr Prime Minister? To tell you this: "Quickly! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It was a measure that should have been taken yesterday! So we don't want to wait any longer for this matter. I would like to ask you one last question, which has to do with the banking committees. The deposits that people make in banks, the money they put there, are not a burden to the banks, are a contribution to the profits of the banks, which they then make profitable in their financial operations. Therefore, Prime Minister, the commissions in the accounts to order are an absolute scandal! They are an absolute scandal in the General Deposit Box and they are an absolute scandal in private banks. And this has only one solution, Mr Prime Minister, is to legislate, legislate to prevent bank committees relating to the order and maintenance of these accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u171	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u172	What I would like to ask is whether Mr. Prime Minister is available to legislate in this regard from the ban on bank-keeping committees. Even to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u173	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u174	... I must say that I condemn vehemently, on behalf of The Greens, the extension of the grant to ENI / Galp for research and exploration of hydrocarbons off the coast of Alentejana.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u175	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u176	It was a mistake the government made. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u177	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u178	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all it was not now that the Government began to act in relation to the protection of the Tejo. As you know, we are investing EUR 72 million in the construction and remodelling of 21 ETAR (residual water treatment stations) in the Tejo basin as well as 26 interventions in the closure of the wastewater drainage system. So, it wasn't now that we started to act, about this episode, we've been investing and working to protect the Tejo basin. Secondly, we will not wait until we have adopted a provisional measure, which was to impose a 50 % reduction in effluents for 10 days. If, at the end of these 10 days, the conditions for the flow do not change and the Tejo continues to be unable to receive the licensed amount of effluents, we will prolong the interim measure and will do everything in the meantime to change the licence in a way that does not only have interim measures, but we will definitely adjust the allowances for the emission of effluents to the variable capacity of the river, depending on the flow which, at any time, has or does not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u179	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u180	There is no need to answer about the banking committees!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u181	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, it's next time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u182	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u183	Mr President, Prime Minister, Foz Côa and the High Douro Vinhateiro, regions listed on the World Heritage list, are once again in danger this time because the REN (National Electric Network) wants to build a pipeline of 170 km between Celorico da Beira and Bragança, budgeted at 115 million euros to be charged in our invoices. This project obtained the negative opinion of CCDR-N, a negative opinion of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ( DGPC ), and by APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ), also deserved a negative environmental impact assessment. And, yes, we know there was public discussion, it was marked for a nice August day, when people were on vacation. Mr Prime Minister, this dossier is in the hands of the Ministry of the Environment, which has two options: to give in to the economic interests of the REN or to guarantee the best interest of all of us and of the common good. Mr Prime Minister, does the government already have a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u184	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u185	Mr President, Mr André Silva, energy interconnections with Spain are an essential component of our energy interconnection with Europe, a project of great public interest, and it is therefore important that these interconnections exist. Of course, we must reconcile this objective and this public interest with other public interests of greater value, such as the protection of environmental value in an area that is World Heritage, of great environmental value and of great agro-food value, which is the Douro valley. Therefore, in view of the negative assessment of the environmental impact, the indications we gave to the entities were that they sought alternative solutions for interconnection with Spain, which would preserve the Douro Vinhateiro area. What we need to be able to achieve is to achieve compatibility with these two objectives: not to give up the objective of interconnection, because it is of the greatest importance, especially for reducing energy costs in Portugal, and at the same time to preserve what is a unique good and which cannot be sacrificed, which is the Douro Vinhateiro. This preservation must be ensured and must, of course, be above any other interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u186	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u187	Mr. Prime Minister, for some industries, the Tejo is just an open drain. For too many years these companies, which are guided by a single value, profit, pollute and destroy the Tagus impunity. The analyses of the last catastrophe, released yesterday, show that the levels of cellulose were 5000 times above the recommended levels. There is no doubt: the biggest polluter of the Tejo is the paper folder industry, as, in fact, we have been saying a long time ago. See, Prime Minister, APA has been strengthening monitoring for a year, starting in November the samplings were made from two days to two days and more recently every day. How is it that, with such monitoring, if you still do not know the non-compliant industries? The conclusion is simple: the country's priorities continue not to go through the environment, there is nothing worth having a rule in the Penal Code on environmental crimes, it is dead letter. Mr. Prime Minister, when are these factories definitely closed and their responsible prisoners and convicted? [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u188	Recalling the principle of the separation of powers, I give the floor to reply to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a part of your question that, as you know, transcends the powers of the government, and still well, because at that time the governments ordered arrest, fortunately has already passed and today no one wants to return to those times,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u190	Answer the first half of the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u191	...not even to protect the Tejo and fight pollution. [[Laughing.]] Now, with regard to what we are doing, it is not bad, but, given the time, and before Mr President asks me to shut up for the last time, I refer it to the answer I have already given, in due course, to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who fully answers the questions she has raised with regard to Celtejo. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u192	You haven't answered before, not now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. Mr Duarte Pacheco will now read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, Bill No 758 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the mandate of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of fires occurring between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-01.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow for 10 a.m. on the following agenda: Point one, joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 687 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and the seventh amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ), 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ), and 748 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works, restating the value of additional work and compensatory rest(PAN) ; Point two, discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 581 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ban on the marketing of disposable meal utensils in plastic ( The Greens ), 752 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-use of disposable plastic dishes in certain catering sectors ( PAN), 747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastics and provides for the transition to new materials and practices ( BE) and 754 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation to provide consumers with an alternative to the distribution of disposable meal utensils in plastics, in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments ( CFP ), together with draft resolution No 1286 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote studies on alternatives to the use of disposable plastic dishes, conduct awareness-raising campaigns to reduce their use and define a strategy for the gradual reduction of their use ( PSD ) and with petition No 381 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Calls for the abolition of the use of disposable plastics in Portugal. (Belarmino Teixeira et al.) Point three, assessment of petition No 345 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the creation of a recruitment group for the Portuguese Gestal Language (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) together with draft resolution No 1283 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the accounting of all the time of service provided by Portuguese Gestive Language teachers for the purposes of integration into the teaching career(BE) ; Point four, assessment of petition No 382 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for the creation of better conditions of television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations ) together with draft resolutions 1275 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By better conditions of access of the deaf population to television ( PCP ), 1281 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with a view to the timing of measures aimed at the total accessibility of television content to the deaf community ( BE) and 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( PAN); Point five, discussion of draft resolution No 1265 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishs a possible committee to monitor the process of defining « Portugal 2030 strategy » within the framework of the multiannual financial framework for 2020 ( PS ) ; Point six, timeless, bill No. 758 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Extension of the mandate of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of fires occurring between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ). in the end, there will be a period of voting. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all an excellent evening and I remind you that today ends the exhibition on the commemoration of the 150 years of the end of the death penalty in Portugal. The play will be displayed The last day of a convicted, who has been on stage in a theatre, with the actor Virgílio Castelo and text by Victor Hugo. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 53 minutes.]]
