ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 13 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, consisting of a point, with a CDS-PP marking, and any vote at the end of the debate, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, Bill No 138 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activities and the procedural regime applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations whose processing falls within the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 97, which falls to 5. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1721 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Assessment of the Government's report « Portugal in the European Union — 2017 » ( European Affairs Committee ), 1722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of the São Romão Basic School ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of the High School of Lannoso Póvoa ( The Greens ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, we will start the agenda with a CDS-PP marking. Bill No. 884 / XIII ( 3 ) is under joint discussion in general. ( a ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( CDS-PP ), draft resolution No 1653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( PSD ), Bill No 400 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce the price of road gas through the level of incorporation of biofuels ( PCP ), draft resolution No 1703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes the immediate reduction of the ISP and its adequacy to the increase in the price of oil ( PCP ), and draft law No 922/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — eliminates the additional tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and approves the monthly revisions of the unit rates of tax applicable to leadless petrol, road gas oil and colored gas oil and marked for the continent ( BE ). To present Bill No. 884 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2016, in view of a price of low fuels—but also only transiently low— the Socialist Party's Government decided to increase the tax on petrol and gas oil, the ISP, in 6 cents per litre. When he presented this overtax, the government was justified by saying that he was doing so with a view to fiscal neutrality, i.e. raising the tax on fuels to recover what was being lost in revenue from VAT ( value added tax ). on the day of the submission of this measure, the Minister of Finance promised the Portuguese that the increase in the tax on petrol and gasoline would compensate, and I quote, "just what was lost in VAT. The principle is that of fiscal neutrality. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u6	on February 12, 2016, in this Chamber, the Prime Minister, António Costa, promised the fiscal neutrality of this tax increase. And I quote once again: « What we wanted was to have fiscal neutrality for taxpayers, but also for the state. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” on February 13, the then State Secretary for Tax Affairs guaranteed, in an interview, the same principle. Quote: « You can always download 1 cent per 4 cent increase. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We know today that the fiscal neutrality that the government has announced does not occur. This tax, which should be transitional, has become a definitive tax by the government. In fact, transitional taxes are the tax hell of the Socialist Party full! In ISP, the State accounted for more EUR 700 million in 2016 and 2017 than in 2015. In 2018, only between January and April, the State has already raised more than EUR 1000 million in this tax. According to the calculations for 2016 of an independent technical unit that works with the Assembly of the Republic, UTAO ( Technical Budget Support Unit ), and using the same calculation method for 2017 and for the whole of 2018, we realize that the state will still earn 900 million euros above the promised neutrality that the government had announced. This means that this increase in taxes was all less neutral. It was not neutral for the state vaults, but, above all, it was not neutral for the Portuguese pockets. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This means that this increase in taxes meant a sack of nearly EUR 900 million to taxpayers. Millions of euros taken from families who need the car in their daily lives. Millions of euros weighing on public transport, which have increased in this period by around 4 %, far above inflation. Millions of euros taken from companies that need to deliver their goods, receive their raw materials and transport their workers. It happens that today, in 2018, the price of oil is no longer low. during this year the price of fuels rose 10 times and dropped only one. Today, compared to January 2016, gasoline costs 27 cents per litre and diesel costs 33 cents per litre. For a Portuguese who tests your car with 60 liters of gas oil, the bill will get you 20 € more expensive than before this tax increase. This certainly contributes to the rise in the price of oil, but also contributes to the rise in the tax burden on fuels, which is now one of the highest in Europe after this increase. With the creation of the overtax of fuels, Portugal shifted from a position where the average price was below the European Union average to a position in which it is clearly above the European Union average, with neither Portugal nor GDP (gross domestic product ) nor the purchasing power of the countries of the European Union average. Compared with what is happening in neighbouring Spain, which is our commercial partner, but also our commercial competitor, Portuguese families are paying another 14 cents per litre in gasoline and another 25 cents per litre in gasoline. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This adds to the breakdown of the government's promise to revise the tax rate quarterly in order to lower the final price paid by taxpayers on the gas pump. of the 6 cents per litre initial, it still went down to 4 cents, but from there it remained immobile, weighing a lot on the Portuguese wallet. After the creation of this overtax on fuels, each litre of petrol 55 % is taxed and each litre of petrol 63 % of the price goes directly to the coffers of Minister Mário Centeno. A family that supplies €90 of gasoline is paying €34 of fuel and €56 to the safes of the Ministry of Finance. A company that shows a gas van with 100 € pay for the fuel and 55 € are delivered directly to the state via taxes. There is no longer any justification for maintaining this increase in taxes, except for the tax voracity of the Socialist Party Government. The so-called principle of fiscal neutrality has, after all, become a tax drawback to Portuguese taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Who assumed it was, exactly, a member of the Socialist Party who said today, and I quote, "It was through this increase that it was possible to reduce other taxes. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, we all remember that this is not what the Socialist Party said when it created this overtax of ISP and, above all, this is not what the Socialist Party promised the Portuguese in elections. When he opened the hunt for vote, the PS promised everything to everyone and now he takes away a lot of the Portuguese to pay for his election promise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] After all, the new time was the time of the greatest tax burden ever. After all, austerity has not ended, it has moved from weapons and luggage to the gas pump. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u7	Just to give an example, I will say the following: a family that spends 60 liters of gasoline per week, at the end of one year paid almost 5000 €, of which 3100 € are taxed. This same family today is spending about 1000 € more per year on what it paid in 2015. This is particularly serious from the point of view of social justice, because fuel tax is a blind tax, which affects everyone equally, regardless of their economic, social or geographical condition. Poor and wealthy families, middle class or remedyed, all pay the tax equally, having no proportionality, which aggravates the injustice among taxpayers. This is also why the CDS has always denounced this tax, which is why the CDS has always been against this overtax and, if the Portuguese are paying more today when they are going to supply a gas pump, this is due to a wrong option of the PS and those who have accompanied it in the lead to our proposals for eliminating this increase. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the fifth time the CDS brings to the vote an initiative like this. this time, if the parties are consistent with everything they have said in Parliament, we know that this initiative will happen. The reduction of fuel tax is possible, is viable and can start today. That is what is in each of us when we are called to vote on these projects today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u8	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has two entries for requests for clarification: one from the PS Parliamentary Group by Mr Carlos Pereira and another from The Greens by Mr José Luís Ferreira. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u9	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u10	All right. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to begin by saying clearly that, despite his enthusiastic intervention — too enthusiastic — from our point of view, taking into account the matter at stake — the CDS is leading, at the moment, an elective front which has only one objective on the table, that of hunting for votes. It is regrettable that you have provided for this service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] I give two very clear reasons for this. First of all, I am sure that you agree with me when I say that this debate, although it is important and useful — and we do not run away from this debate — comes out of time. You know we're right! This is a debate to be held in the budgetary framework, in the budgetary debate, at the end of all revenue and expenditure,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u12	... because this is how you work in favor of Portugal, in favor of the Portuguese people and in dignified and concrete measures for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The second reason is more complex, and it is even surprising that he has brought the CDS proposal in these terms. It is that this proposal violates the Budget Framework Act. This proposal violates the norm-work, as you know! This, despite the fact that, during this week, you have justified, with thousands of arguments, all of them very fragile, that does not, after all, violate the labour law. In fact, let me say that it seems to me that the honourable Member is embroiled in a forecasting spirit above the average, it must be a sort of witch to know what will happen by the end of the year, to make it clear that, if approved, this measure is not a change in budgetary revenue matters. It is regrettable that the CDS has been willing to play this role and to bring such a proposal to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u14	We are now talking about commitments, Mr President. The honourable Member has returned for the fifth time, as I said, and very well! — referring to commitments made by the PS Government that have not been fulfilled. Now, Mr, we will explain to you that the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have fulfilled the commitments of fiscal neutrality with which it committed itself in 2016. For this reason, from the rostrum, he did not comment on any government member of 2017 or 2018. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u15	The honourable Member only referred to comments from 2016, because it was precisely that year that the Socialist Party Government took on the commitment of fiscal neutrality rather than in 2017 or 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have avoided this confrontation so as not to say that we are going beyond what we should be doing as a government, but if you have any doubts about this, this confrontation must be made today to unmasking once and for all that you have been saying. I have here — and I will ask that they be distributed, especially to Mr. Member — the portals since 2016 : there are three 2016 portals that speak in fiscal neutrality, which was a government commitment that was finally made in 2016, there is a 2017 portal that does not speak in fiscal neutrality, because this was not a government commitment, and there is a 2018 portal that does not speak in fiscal neutrality, because this was not a government commitment. Therefore, for the fifth time, the honourable Member has missed the truth and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot at this time allow that lack of truth, which is not well for you and for the CDS Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, in fact, prepared to do this debate — it has already said so many times and through various entities of the Socialist Party — but it is willing to do so in the right place, which is the debate on the budget. You have to say now, here in this House, what you want to do in the budgetary framework on this matter. Mr President, I repeat, you want to make no mention of hundreds of millions of euros, but what is the alternative? in the absence of hundreds of millions of euros, what do you want to do? Do you want to reduce investment support in hospitals? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Do you want to reduce support for public school? Do you want to reduce investment support in housing? What do you want to do? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u16	In this House, you should say what is the alternative you have in this matter, because you are shielding yourself from a commitment that has been made by this government and does not clearly tell the people of Portugal what you want to do with this proposal, which is demagogic, which is populist and does not fit in with what the CDS has been doing in recent times. That is why, Mr President, once and for all, how much this measure costs, where you want to cut if this measure is approved and what expenditure you want to cut following the adoption of this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u17	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the price of fuels has reached unsustainable levels and is, in fact, causing very negative effects both on citizens and on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a problem that gets worse if we take into account that citizens often have no other mobility solution than the use of the private car, simply because they do not have public transport as a real alternative to the use of individual transport, with all the consequences that arise there, not only from the economic point of view but also from the environmental point of view, from the point of view of combating climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, as a prior note, and in anticipation of our position on the subject under discussion, I would like to say that the Greens also consider that the Government must respond to the commitment it has made to stop applying the additional to the ISP, thus ensuring the fiscal neutrality promised at this level by the Government when in 2016 it introduced it, even more so than the assumptions that justified it today have ceased to be present. If the assumptions do not occur, the additional to the ISP is no longer supported and should therefore simply cease to be applied. But, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, when we talk about the excessive price of fuels, we cannot only reduce the problem to the additional ISP, as the CDS-PP does, because this is an element, only an element or part, still small in view of the size of the fuel price problem, which Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u19	Before I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u20	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u21	There are several factors that competed for fuel prices to reach current values. It should be recalled, for example, that the privatisation of Galp — whose paternity also belongs to the CDS-PP, because it was part of the government that gave 'green light' to this privatization — is also contributing, and much, to achieve today's values when we talk about the prices of fuels. And, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the same applies to the liberalisation of fuel prices — which, as you know, has been led by a government that the CDS has incorporated, because it was a PSD/CDS government that proceeded to liberalise — which has also contributed greatly to the increase in prices in this area. Therefore, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, if we think it is correct that the CDS is concerned about what the State brings with this tax, it would also seem correct that the CDS was at least a little concerned about the millions and millions that oil companies continue to accumulate in profits, not only because of the privatisation of Galp but also because of the liberalisation of fuel prices, two issues in which, as I said, the CDS-PP has particular responsibilities. Mr President, the idea remains, perhaps correct, that the CDS is very concerned about what taxpayers pay to the State in terms of fuel, but is not concerned about what taxpayers pay to the oil industry. That is, if it's for oil, it's okay for the CDS, if it's for the state it can't be — for the state it can't be! Therefore, Mr President, I would like you to speak on these matters. In conclusion, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, I read with great attention the statement of reasons from the draft law that the CDS has devoted to today's debate, I listened to his initial intervention with all the attention of the world and I ended up not realizing how the CDS intends to unlock the problem of law-work and how that problem is solved. I would like you to explain this to us, because, Mr President, if there is no solution, then we must even conclude that this schedule of the CDS-PP was simply a fun maneuver. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u22	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u23	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would allow me, I would begin with the thoughtful intervention by Mr Carlos Pereira — in fact, I would say, by the serene Member of the Socialist Party Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u24	He's not nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u25	Mr. Deputies, let's start with the question of the Socialist Party's commitments. I read the project of the Left Block, and the Left Block, which is your partner in this government solution, never saw that this commitment, which you say was temporary, was temporary at the time. The Left Block clearly states that the PS is failing to fulfil this same commitment — the same thing with regard to the Communist Party, the same thing with regard to the Greens Ecological Party, the same thing with regard to the PSD and the same thing with regard to the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u26	They didn't call the door. It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u27	Therefore, this logic that commitment was temporary was something that, as the Brazilians said, « only counted for you», because they did not count anyone else in this same plenary, but I realize that, for Mr Carlos Pereira, which is probably used to it, the PS's commitments are very, very short and non-permanent. Now, we hoped that the commitments of a party like the Socialist Party would be serious, that the word given would be honest, but, by the way, that did not happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, I am going to tell you what you are elective. The electorate is, before the elections, promising tax cuts, promising to lower the tax burden and we are faced with the greatest tax burden of all time;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u28	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u29	... electorate, Mr Member, is to increase the ISP by saying that it was to fill the VAT drop, and, when it begins to rise and if it starts to recover, even in VAT, you come to say that, after all, this is now to pay the hospitals—maybe the Madeira hospital—is to pay the schools, it is to pay everything and something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u30	Don't you want to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u31	On the second question, on the labour law — and also replying to the honourable Member of the Greens Ecological Party — Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to remind him of what was the Socialist Party's argument. I am very sorry that I am not here — at least I did not see it — Mr Rocha Andrade, who, at the time he was Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and was sitting on the bench of the Government, said very clearly that whenever petrol went up 4 cents, we could lower 1 cent of the ISP. Now, right now, the ISP has risen 27 cents. Quoting another socialist: do the math! Keeping an eye on him, he realizes how much he can get down. But if you want to talk about this State Budget, Mr. Member, let's talk about it. I have here the State Budget Report: for this year, 2018, the government expects the oil barrel to be at 54 dollars. right now, do you know how much you're doing? It's 73 bucks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u32	And it's the government's fault? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u33	See the difference between what the State is receiving more in VAT — much more! — what are you recovering in ISP? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u34	Maybe, you don't understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u35	Do you understand how a tax sack of €900 million is made? That's exactly the way it is, sir! That is why, as far as compromises are concerned, everyone assumes their own. Our commitment is to the Portuguese, who are paying more in ISP every day what you are taking away from them, and that is what we can start correcting today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u36	With no further requests for clarification, you have the floor to present the legislative initiative of your Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One month has passed since, at the initiative of the PSD, there was a constructive debate on the subject we are discussing today, another month in which the Portuguese have come to face a painful reality — the calvary of the price of fuels. Nothing fundamental has changed: the tax bill on fuels continues to beat all the records. The Portuguese continue to pay more than 13 cents per litre in petrol and 9 cents in petrol compared with the first months of this government's work, when the higher taxes on fuels never recorded in Portugal, and they continue to pay among the most expensive fuels in Europe - we are at 5. the place in gasoline and in 10. or gas oil. The government, that continues to be glutonous, insatiable to threaten taxes and to ignore the sacrifice of the Portuguese, doing everything and nothing to oppose this situation, which calls into question the families and the overwhelming majority of companies. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the assumptions of a month have not changed. It is appropriate to say: another month has passed and nothing has changed, the millet of "uncle centeno" continues to accumulate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of fuels raises the worst of governance: original sin, wordlessness, deception. The government broke a contract of trust that it had with the Portuguese in an unfair handling exercise: it ensured that, if the price rises, the tax goes down; now, the price has risen and the government has lied. In 2016, the government was saying that it was raising fuel taxes by more than 7 cents per litre because prices were low and therefore it lost VAT, reducing tax revenue. There were several — Minister Eduardo Cabrite, Secretary of State Rocha Andrade — who promptly comforted the Portuguese and assured them that they would make quarterly reviews of the value of the ISP, estimating until, for every 4 cents of price increase, the ISP would be reduced by 1. They said that the Portuguese would have nothing to fear and even got a nice name: they called it the principle of fiscal neutrality. Things started to run badly soon in 2016. Fuels rose 19 cents in gasoline and 16 in gasoline and the government reduced only 2 in gasoline and 1 in gasoline. The remaining 3 remained prosperous in the state's safe houses, in a deviation that UTAO (the Technical Unit for Budget Support) estimated at EUR 250 million. In 2017, the staging was even less subtle. The government, committed to disengagement, found a new formula, with which it said it was a new model, which it had no longer fulfilled: professional gas oil. The Prime Minister has yet to say here that — and I quote — « in 2017, the Budget (... ) does not provide for the quarterly review, because it provides for the maintenance of professional gas oil. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, it is not enough to account for turning 1000 companies into 10 million citizens. However, the ISP increased by 2 cents in gas oil, reducing them in gasoline, knowingly that 80 % of vehicles consume gas, an operation with which it generated further tax aggravation and collected more than a few million euros. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the more the price rises, the more the state rises. In three years, the lack of a word takes away from the Portuguese pocket and renders the State more than EUR 1000 million above fiscal neutrality. Everything is gone: the word, the honor, the quarterly reviews, the reduction of the ISP. It sustained, solitary, the spectacular increase in taxes. The economic miracle died, the political addrabice lived! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate here is, however, new: the opinion of the Competition Authority on the fuel market was made public last week. This document concludes that tax policy is the largest responsible for the price of fuels, tax policy which has worsened with successive increases, the responsibility of this government. This conclusion makes the the thesis, which we have heard say, fall to the ground that the change in the price that has been recorded is not explained in tax matters. They were, therefore, unfounded statements in support of decisions and responsibilities that some wanted to distance themselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 10 % of family income is channelled to transport and fuel. The government's policy therefore leads to significant losses for families, businesses, the economy, the country. No one escapes when the fuels rise — neither rich nor poor, large nor small — they all suffer, suffering more who is more fragile. There is therefore no social justice! For this reason, the PSD project aims to ensure that the Government is beginning to fulfil its commitments to the country: to meet fiscal neutrality, which immediately lowers the tax on petroleum products, as the excess VAT revenue collection has occurred in 2018 with successive price revisions, without budgetary impacts, reaching the end of the year with the revenue that the government itself has designed, but also that it then undertakes quarterly revisions so that no more than one year has occurred, an unjustified invoice of EUR 1000 million to satisfy the government's tax bias. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue can no longer be ignored. The reality knocks on the door and the Portuguese demand that we take action, require answers. So who can stand aside from a government that has abandoned the Portuguese, deceived them and put them in the hope that the confrontation with reality will never take place? Don't the Portuguese have the right to a reduction in the ISP? Don't you have the government's duty? Isn't the government receiving what I said doesn't need and that the commitment you signed is not due to it? Today is the day to honor the word, the day to lower taxes on fuels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u38	No Member has signed up to ask for clarification, so we're going... [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Fernando Anastácio signed up to request clarification from Mr Cristovão Norte. We call for the inclusions to be made clear during the interventions. You have the floor, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u39	Madam President, Mr Cristovão Norte, I would like to ask you three or four questions on the issues you have addressed in your speech. The first is on the subject of commitments and on the subject of the word. Mr Deputy, in his speech, made it clear that there was a commitment in the 2016 Budget, but he also made it clear—and I think it became clear in this Chamber that this commitment was not reflected in the 2017 and 2018 Budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u41	Therefore, these are your words that justify it and I do not think it is necessary to say more. Mr. Member, I certainly agree that no Portuguese likes, no Portuguese feels good to pay more taxes, but now it will answer me - also what are the worst cents: the 5 cents in your government's ISP in 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u43	... or the 4 cents in the ISP of the Socialist Party Government now? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] If the honourable Member says « ours have some divine gift and are for the Portuguese; yours are such a socialist tax hell», we can understand, but on the matter of tax increase, dear Mr Cristovan North, there is nothing to teach anyone. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] With regard to the PSD proposal, at least it has good sense—and I have no sympathy to say it—to present itself as a draft resolution and not to enter into clearly unsustainable mechanisms from the point of view of legality, as is the case with the CDS proposal, and it allows to put this issue on a plane. It has a defect: it does not appear at the right time of the discussion, because this discussion, as has already been said here today, is for the state budget. It's because we're not here discussing exclusively the ISP, we're discussing fiscal policy, we're discussing tax revenues, we're also discussing where we're going to have revenue and where we're going to have no expense. I would like to ask you the following question: admiting from now on that it is available to download the ISP, also as a responsible party, you will certainly have an obligation to tell us what taxes you want to raise or what expenses you want to cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u45	The challenge I leave you with is that, in the answer you will give me, tell me what the PSD outlook for the discussion in the State budget on taxes you will want to raise to compensate for the ISP or what expenses you want to cut. On the importance of the ISP in the price of fuels, let us, by all means, demystify this issue. It is not the 4 cents that have determined the current price of fuels, it cannot say in any way that the increase that the Portuguese are suffering in 2018 results from the 4 cents, because that is not it. The significant special factor that determines this increase is obviously the cost of the raw material — or the honourable Member does not know this or does not want the Portuguese to understand that. Let's talk the truth, let's be clear. We will take the measures we have, but in your speech you do not hide behind the price of raw materials, which you do not want to bring to this debate. So I leave these questions to you and, if you want to have a serious and clear debate, tell us clearly where you want to cut and what you want to increase or then tell us that the PSD, this PSD, has abandoned the principle of the balance of public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u46	To reply, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Anastácio, the first thing I wanted to make clear is that the Socialist Party is now in the State Budget, but I remember that in 2016, by door, these 6 cents were increased and that at the time, as was very convenient for the Socialist Party, the procedure of the State Budget was opened. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u48	Therefore, this is done according to its conveniences, circumstances, to obtain more revenue and violating commitments, undermining the confidence that citizens have placed in the government. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It is clear that the Government has violated a compromise and is not, as you said, just 4 cents; on the contrary, it is in taxes, 13 cents in gasoline and 9 cents in gasoline. You well know that it is not just the ports, but it is also an induced effect on VAT, and the higher the price increases the revenue of the State. That is the undeniable reason why you have not complied with the principle of fiscal neutrality. The principle of fiscal neutrality was of interest to you only if the price went down to maintain the revenue; the price rose, but the Portuguese had to pay more. So when he arrived in 2017 and looked at the price quote of oil and they saw that he was suddenly rising, the Mr. Members and the Government in particular have decided to reconsider the matter by saying: "Now we have the professional gas oil" for you. A thousand companies, in exchange for 10 million citizens! Won't the Portuguese understand what you've done? Of course you understand! You were left with more than EUR 1000 million. EUR 1 billion that should be in the Portuguese stock market but are unfoundedly in the Government's stock market, which has violated its commitments in this regard. [[PSD applause.]] I would like to point out one thing: I think that, in a timid way, you have acknowledged that the proposal presented by the PSD to the evaluation of the Chamber does not violate the labour law, nor does the Budget Framework Act. Why? Because the PSD sets a very clear standard: eliminates what the State has achieved in excess of VAT by reducing the ISP. That is why it is possible for the government to meet religiously what is in the State Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u50	...refunding to the Portuguese what is taking them away, and the Portuguese can thus pay less in taxes and have better quality of life, which you, unjustly, are taking them out. Keep your word! [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u51	To present the legislative initiatives to your Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP reaffirms what it has been stressing over the years — it is necessary and steps can be taken to reduce the price of fuels from now on and to that end we present the legislative initiatives necessary for their implementation. In view of the evolution of the price of oil in the international market and the consequent collection of more tax revenue via VAT, it is necessary to demand compliance by the Government with the commitment made by the Government when introducing the additional to the ISP in 2016. We therefore propose the immediate reduction of the tax on oil and energy products, adapting it to the estimate of the additional VAT revenue resulting from the rise in the price of the oil barrel, as well as the weighting of the measures necessary for its adequacy in view of the prospects for the evolution of the fuel market. We also present a bill to reduce the incorporation of biofuels, thus withdrawing an additional pressure on prices, through an instrument which is, in fact, contradictory to the environment and the economy. The percentage of 5, 5 % for the incorporation of biofuels is that in force in Spain. Therefore, the CFP is resubmitting the proposal to resume this mandatory percentage rather than the 7, 5 % that remained in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u54	This measure will translate into a direct reduction of about 2 cents per litre of road gas oil, as we have already proposed in the budget office, but which has been rejected for not having the support of the PS, PSD, or the CDS. With this proposal, we point out a solution that objectively contributes to the reduction of the selling price to the public, particularly in gas oil, which is a fundamental factor, of course, for the costs of companies, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The most important thing for us at this stage is to respond to people's specific problems — and that is why we will be able to make the various proposals in this debate feasible — but we must not fail to note that, in particular, the proposal of the CDS cannot, as it is, remain in law and should have been drawn up with other respect for the Constitution and the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate on the price of fuels, the CFP has not now begun to address the issue of taxes in this Parliament. over the years, successive PSD, PS and CDS governments have increased taxes on consumption and labour income, while reducing them to great capital, deepening injustices and inequalities in Portuguese society. The tax burden on energy products is very revealing this route. Let us remind ourselves of the rise of VAT on electricity and natural gas to the maximum rate of 23 % promoted by the last PSD/CDS government ; let us remember that the increase of ISP through the carbon rate by the same PSD/CDS Government ; and let us remind us that VAT on petrol or gasoline, because of the responsibility of PS, PSD and CDS, also affects other taxes, which in practice is a double tax. We have always called attention to these problems, while others who are now scandalizing were at the time decreeing and imposing these same decisions. Now, once again, the concrete proposals of the CFP with immediate measures, including at the fiscal level, to deal with this part of the problem, it is necessary to say with all the letters: the manoeuvres that PSD and CDS promote around this issue are an exercise of political opportunism, whitewash their responsibilities and protect the profits of oil. Don't count on the PCP for that stage! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about profits. When we talk about the superlucres or the excessive incomes of the companies of the electroproducer system, it is important that we also look at the oil superlucres. Galp's profits in 2017 amounted to EUR 602 million in continuity, of which EUR 423 million will be delivered in the form of dividends to its shareholders—more 10, 4 % than in the previous year. Galp's profits do not forget the profits of Repsol, BP or other large multinationals. But the truth is, if it hadn't been privatized, Galp would be a key piece in reducing fuel turnover in our country, if it were the Portuguese state to stop its control. The margins of these companies, in view of the management of the oil price, have been rising in recent years, rising prices whenever the price of the barrel rises and holds back the declines, even when the price of the barrel goes down. It is thus clear that there are fundamental reasons for paying the highest prices for European Union fuels in Portugal: the privatization of Galp by PS governments, PSD and CDS ; the liberalisation of fuel prices by a PSD/CDS government, with the support of the PS ; the carteling of oil prices, ensuring their desired profits; the absence of a policy free from the interests of monopolies aimed at ensuring the sovereignty and energy security of the country. As we have come to stress, availability, security of supply and the price of energy, in this case of fuels, are strategic variables that are incontrovertible to the country. Since the privatisation of Galp and the liberalisation of prices, Portugal has been deprived of important instruments for economic intervention and for the defence of national sovereignty. For the CFP, the price situation of fuels is worrying and requires immediate measures, but it also calls for other strategic options that guarantee the structural decrease in prices and dependence of the country in the face of sudden or even uncontrollable changes at the international level. It is necessary to deepen a policy of support for the productive sectors — agriculture, fisheries, passenger transport and goods — by deepening the progress achieved by the CFP proposal in the recent State budgets, even if it is less than necessary in support of agricultural gas oil and gas oil. The country needs urgent measures to respond to a problem that can even worsen further. This perspective requires the definition of a strategy, based on a national energy plan, which reduces energy consumption and deficit with rational energy use programmes and increases in energy efficiency in transport, in buildings, with a priority for the public, and in industry, with the reduction of energy intensity, and the diversification of energy sources as a result of the decline in fossil fuel availability. These are proposals which are not separate from the exploitation of workers' rights and remuneration. We want to greet the workers of Petrogal and all those who guarantee the work of their units, who fight for rights, wages, collective bargaining, fair distribution of wealth. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country needs another policy, a patriotic and left-wing policy that aims to recover the public control of this sector, starting with Galp, as a central issue not only of the prices but of the country's own sovereignty and energy security. It is in this sense that the CFP will continue to intervene. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u57	Mr Bruno Dias, the Bureau has registered to request clarification from Mr Antonio Ventura of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u58	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, today we are watching from the CFP, which seems to be a meaculpa, a regret, which remains to know whether it is partial or total. The CFP has already noted that its Government is harming businesses, micro-enterprises, farmers, fishermen and withdrawing competitiveness from these companies. at the beginning of the government mandate and the agreement you made with your party, everything was easy, feasible and fast to implement. at this moment, and after two and a half years of governance, the truth is another. Everything waits, everything analyzes and everything throws forward in an attempt to make time and win taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u60	The truth is that the government has deceived the Portuguese with the microphone in hand and a lot of hope for money in the other hand. And the reality is in sight: measures that were to be temporary became final. But it is important to remember that the CFP, on its own initiative, supported this tax increase so far, because it voted against the proposals that sought to eliminate the ISP in the various State budgets. [[PCP protests.]] Therefore, the government is as responsible for the huge increase in taxes. This even looks like the Robin of the Forests to the contrary, that is, until now it was the government that was withdrawing the people to keep this great management working. The Portuguese are surrounded by taxes. After two years of governance, it is time to compare your governance with your governance. Any attempt to analyze out of this comparison is to create a fun maneuver and is to compare what is not comparable. The truth is that the Portuguese begin to have a great discouragement over the present and a great fear of the future and what may happen. The policy of this government is being unmasked and looks like a snow doll: the sun has appeared and it has melted. In other words, we already realize that austerity, which should have already ended, continues and is perfectly unmasked. There's no problem, you get it. Your snow doll has melted, austerity exists, it is alive and well alive. I have two simple political issues, because it's about policy, to put the CFP. First: does the PCP feel wrong by the PS? Yes or no? Second: will the PCP continue to fall into the PS ambushes? Yes or no? Mr President, there is no need for great circumstances or for making major statements to be answered either 'yes' or 'no'. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u61	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u62	Madam President, with your permission, I reply to Mr António Ventura saying that what you want me to know. Mr President, when you talk about the CFP's position on fuel prices, or you don't know what you're talking about, which is serious, or you know what you're saying, what's even more serious. in the previous government, you imposed the increase in taxes across the line, including in the ISP, and now they make the film they are making. [[PSD protests.]] However, what is certain is that there is still no word or breath but about the scandalous profits of the oil that are threatening at the cost of the sacrifice of others. The CFP proposals are in sight, are under discussion, are in the vote. We count on your vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u63	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The price of selling fossil fuels to the public, such as petrol and diesel, has increased significantly, reaching successive peaks since 2014. This increase has been enhanced by the fall of the euro against the dollar and pointed in part as a result of the oil race after the breakup of the nuclear agreement with Iran by the United States of America. The price of oil has seen strong increases with West Texas and Brent markets exceeding $70 and $77 per barrel, respectively. As a result, the price of selling fuels to the public in Portugal should continue to worsen, like the trend observed in the first two quarters of 2018. And that is a first problem that the government cannot ignore. According to the data published in May 2018, the liter of petrol 95 increased to the value of 1, 56 € and the liter of gas oil to 1, 35 €. Although the increases may relate to the above-mentioned international context, according to the European Commission, more than half of the selling price for fuels in Portugal results from the application of taxes and taxes, which places Portugal in the tenth place with the most expensive gas oil in the European Union and in the fifth place with regard to petrol. of the taxes and rates applied, the highest amount of the value paid by end-users corresponds to the value of the ISP, weighing 38, 6 % in the reference price of the gas and 45, 9 % in the case of petrol 95, according to the National Fuel Market Entity. It is recalled that on 11 February 2016, the ISP rate increased to a total of 6 cents per litre in order to correct the loss of tax revenue resulting from the historical and transitional decrease in the international oil quote. at that time, the government committed itself to reviewing quarterly the value of the tax rate according to the change in the basic price of oil, leading to small reductions in the ISP rate due to successive increases in the international price of the barrel. However, as from 1 January 2017, by Portaria No 345 - C / 2016, the Government ended with the quarterly review of the value of the ISP rate, which was required to compensate for the increase in VAT paid by consumers per litre of fuel, in turn reflecting the successive increases in the price of oil. Subsequently, with Portaria No. 385 - I / 2017, of 29 December, the Government extended this additional ISP to the year 2018. The end of this review involved the loss of fiscal neutrality, leaving the ISP to be flexible in relation to the conduct of oil on the international market, which adds 23 % VAT on all components competing for the final price per litre of fuel. In fact, considering the accumulated variations from the ISP supplement until 1 January 2018, based on the initial values of the ISP per litre of fuel most used in road environment and confirming this loss of fiscal neutrality, the estimate that this Parliamentary Group apure points to the following unit variations in the price between 2016 and 2018 : in lead-free gasoline, plus 7 cents per litre and, in road gas oil, plus 9 cents per litre. In view of the above, it is clear that the ports introduced by the Government are no longer in line with the current context. With successive increases in the price of the barrel, it is urgent to eliminate the additional rate of the ISP now included in the normal rate of the ISP in order to compensate for the concomitant increases in VAT and thus restore fiscal neutrality. In addition, in view of the historically volatile market for petroleum products, it is our proposal that the ISP rate be adjusted to market fluctuations, so it is argued that these rates, in the context of high volatility in prices, are reviewed in this increase. To this end, the monthly statistics of the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, which follow the daily and monthly variations of fuels on the international market, should be used and are an expression of the taxes affecting them. Thus, it will contribute immediately to the protection of families and companies from excessive increases in sales prices to the public of fuels. Portugal records a high percentage of individual transport trips, which derives from a very poor offer from public transport networks and, in particular, from the metropolitan areas. Indeed, this problem is particularly acute in the interior regions, where the increase in the price of fuels, due to the absence of viable alternatives to individual transport, has aggravated the mobility of the population and the consequent regional development. Although policies are required to ensure a reduction in the adverse dependence on fossil fuels, taking into account their environmental impacts, in particular the strengthening and extension of public public transport services throughout the national territory, we see a reduction in the price charged by fuels, ending the application of the additional ISP rates which, due to the impact of 23 % of VAT on them, amplifies the effect of special taxes on road fuels. contrary to the draft law of the CDS, we prefer to assign to the government the responsibility to define in particular the value of these changes in the ISP. According to the estimates made public on the increase in tax revenue through the VAT ISP, the amount raised so far gives sufficient budgetary time to be able to accommodate the elimination of the additional ISP in the specific values that the Government has already reached. We therefore argue that it must be the government to assume this responsibility through the publication of a specific portal on this subject 30 days after the final approval of the diploma we propose. Finally, it is noted that my Parliamentary Group has the perfect notion that with this bill we are only intervening on a small, marginal part of the issues related to the definition of the fuel price regime in Portugal since the so-called price liberalisation. In the short term, it will be necessary to reflect again on the model for setting fuel prices in Portugal, on a subject which is so relevant to the mobility of citizens and businesses, the State is unable to combat the signs of cartelization in the formation of prices on the market for fuels and thus jeopardise the effectiveness of sustainable mobility policies for the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u65	Mr. Heitor de Sousa, two Members, one from the PSD and the other from the PS, were registered to request clarifications. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u66	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u67	All right. You then have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u68	Mr President, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Mr Heitor de Sousa, there is only one explanation for the sudden change in the position of the Left Block in relation to the tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) : hypocrisy, cynicism, opportunism, in a sad attempt to deceive the people and the Portuguese on this brutal increase in taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block felt the need to come in handy now to pretend to be opposed to the government and to propose the elimination of the ISP when it approved, with its partner of government, this tax increase solution in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, BE has already had other opportunities here, in this House, to contribute to the elimination of this tax, but has always opted to support the government and lead to its elimination. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, two weeks ago, the Left Block defended the discussion of this matter in the State budget; it has now, of course, changed its opinion. And the Portuguese ask: Why did the Left Block change its opinion? What is the reason for the apparent change in position of the Left Block? Why did the Left Block decide today to oppose the government when it was still a partner yesterday? Even yesterday, Mrs Catarina Martins met with the Government at the first negotiating meeting of the next State budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will the elimination of this unjust tax be discussed only today, here, in a mere theatrical scene that has already been used to the Left Block? Or has it also been made up of the statement made yesterday by Mrs Catarina Martins to the Government? Yes or no? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, will the Left Block vote in favour of the PSD diploma and all the proposals to eliminate the ISP? Yes or no? And now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also worth noting how much the contradiction or lack of contradiction of the positions of the Left Block is going to be, and asking: how will the Left Block, in Madeira, vote on the proposed amending budget which was presented by the regional government, which provides for a further reduction in the fuel rate in Madeira and which also provides for the defrosting of teachers' career? It is also good to see whether the Left Block in Madeira — and now also the PS — will vote in favour of what the Government of the Republic cannot do here at continental level. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that this permanent contradiction and this permanent pretense is the well-known political opportunism of a party which, as we have said several times here, has two sides: in an hour, it is opposition and, in another hour, it is government. It is the known method of socialism to say yes when it is not and to say no when it is. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not say here that the blame, as they do in the explanatory statement of your initiative, is for liberalisation, for the fall of the euro against the dollar, for the agreement between Iran and the United States... The blame for the increase in taxes is exclusively from the Government, but also from the Left Block. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than half of the price of fuel results from the rates and taxes approved by the Bloc and the path chosen by this government. This is not the path that the PSD has chosen, this is not the path that the PSD defends, and this is another example that this government does not fulfill what it promises. In fact, we could also talk about other issues, such as, for example, the full time count of teachers, TAP, but this contradiction is insanable and it is another sad episode of the Marxist cartel or, better said, of the trotsky cartilage of the Left Block. We know very well how socialism ends; socialism always lasts as long as there is money from others. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u69	Mr Hugo Costa also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u70	Mr President, Mr Heitor de Sousa, this is one of those debates rich in populism and easy electoralism. Ironically, this debate, for which the Left Block tries to contribute somehow, appears to be required by the same parties that have made a huge increase in taxes, the same parties that have increased VAT on fuels and that have increased the ISP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all have already forgotten the pride that the PSD and the CDS — yes, the government that Mr Pedro Mota Soares was part of — had to say that what was important was to go beyond the troika and put more taxes on the Portuguese. Does he not find it strange that this debate is required by the same parties, namely the CDS, but also by the PSD, which also in the area of energy have left 800 000 families out of the social rate of electricity because they do not want to make an order? The Left Block doesn't think this is weird? Who has benefited from the fact that 800 000 families do not have a social electricity tariff? With regard to the fuel market, of course, climate change requires us to look at the future, but that is not what we are talking about today. The Socialist Party is on the side of consumers seeking measures to mitigate the impacts of fuel prices on families, increasing their quality of life. Do you not think that this was a debate that should have been held on the State budget? In fact, three weeks or a month ago the Left Block, by the voice of the honourable Member, said here in this House that this debate should be held at the heart of the State budget for the coming year. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u71	We miss your proposal and miss the proposal of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in 2009, a study entitled "Enfounded Analysis of the Liquid Fuel and Gas Sectors" was carried out by the Competition Authority in Portugal, where, among other topics, the average sales prices were analyzed to the public before taxes and the way in which the decreases in international markets were not impacted. The Left Block, by placing only the fiscal sphere in this debate, do you not think that the debate is incomplete? Wouldn't it be time for us to have a concrete debate on the margins of business? If this is just a tax issue, how can the margins, according to the last study of the Competition Authority, have risen in the last three years? One last important question: why does the right only place the debate on the tax side? Does the Block agree that the debate is only on the tax side? It is that, unlike other parties presenting draft resolutions, the Left Block presents a bill focused only on tax matters. Is it just tax matters? It is important to note that the burden of taxation on fuels is below the average of the euro area, contrary to what has been borne by many people, and that Brent's price has risen almost 300 % in the last year. The Portuguese need answers: they need answers about what has happened, about what has changed, and about why the Left Block presents a bill to us when, three weeks ago, it said that this was just a matter of budget and that would be discussed in the next State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u72	To reply, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u73	Madam President, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, I thank you for the questions you have raised because it gives me the opportunity to ask which will be the PSD's vote on the bill of the Left Block. If the honourable Member argues in line with what we propose in the bill, it might not be a bad idea for the honourable Member to take the opportunity to clarify the PSD's position of vote on our bill. On the issues of opportunism and hypocrisy, Mrs Deputy, a set of parties, such as the PSD and the CDS, who in the election campaign of June 2011 promised a series of blessings to the Portuguese people and who have hardly reached the government, in addition to a huge increase in taxes, imposed cuts on everything that was wages, pensions, increased public transport prices in an absolutely exorbitant way, have the can, let us say, to come here in hypocrisy and political opportunism? This could be said, Madam Member, if the Left Block had not been hit, and it would continue to beat — here in this House of the Republic, so that energy prices, particularly those that relate most to all Portuguese, which are the prices of electricity, will be reviewed so that the millionaire incomes that exist by electricity operators in Portugal will end. And on this subject I have never seen the PSD express agreement with the proposals of the Left Block. to the Socialist Party Member Hugo Costa I want to say that this is not a matter of whether or not it is, whether or not to postpone the resolution of the problem to the next State budget. at this time, what we need to know by the Government is whether the budget estimate is going to be, and I will already ask the Secretary of State this question - which, from the point of view of taxation, affects fuels is quite above, or is a little above, or is below what is included in the budget. It is that if you are above there is a perfect margin to reduce the additional ISP and to eliminate this additional ISP with immediate effects without prejudice to the State budget law on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u74	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today is discussing a number of initiatives related to the concern about the increase in the sale to the public of fossil fuels, in particular gas and gasoline. The Government intervenes in this debate to highlight its opposition as to how this topic is intended to be discussed, detaching it from the context of the sustainability of public accounts and, above all, detaching it from the context of the country's environmental sustainability and also from the planet. But let's go, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has taken a decision for the 2016 budget year to increase the unit rates of the ISP of petrol and diesel by 6 cents. We made this decision in a context where there had been no review of the unit rates eight years ago. We made this decision in a context of adjustment of the ISP to the reduction of VAT charged by litre of fuel. We took this decision in a context that took into account — and I quote what we had at the time written on the portal — « the additional negative impacts on the environment and on the volume of national imports caused by increased consumption ». Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The assumptions of the decision we have taken are clear, they are written and speak for themselves. The periodic reviews were made throughout 2016, as we said and wrote that we would do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to remind you today that we followed this decision in 2016 with the introduction of a measure of greater importance in support of our economy and, consequently, of Portuguese families. We have introduced the so-called professional gas oil for the road transport of goods, a demand for years, which is returning today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for each liter of gas oil supplied, about 14 cents per litre to transport companies. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to detail the effects, which are too obvious, that this measure has in the final invoice of the goods that are traded in the economy and which thereby benefits Portuguese families and the competitiveness of our exporting companies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is an honest word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u76	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u77	The assumptions of decisions are clear and their realisation is verifiable. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, in the framework of the State budget, we made it clear - and again I quote again, this time the State budget report for 2017 - « a reduction in the tax on gasoline as a counterpart in an equal amount of the tax on gas oil ». We have done so - in the framework of the approximation of the ISP in Portugal to the practice on average of the Western countries of the European Union. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the approximation of the unit rates of the gas oil ISP to the unit rates of the petrol ISP, seeking to follow the European trend, was justified in addition to the underlying environmental reasons, with the introduction of the professional gas oil, which I have already mentioned, and which, from the Government's point of view, as we have said and have written, reduces the justification for the difference in taxation between gas oil and gasoline, and is indicated in the preamble of the portal approving the rates of ISP for 2017 — and I quote again — that "this correction should be gradual, because over the years in Portugal, as in other European countries, an incentive to the use of individual gas-driven vehicles, possibly more polluting than those operating gas, with the inevitable environmental consequences". Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's position has always been clear. It is not worth trying interpretations that just want to serve a debate that has no use for the Portuguese. The government has fulfilled and always keeps its word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives currently under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic cannot, as I have already said, be debated outside the context of the sustainability of public accounts and, in particular, outside the context of the country's environmental sustainability. The initiatives presented are, in our view, far-reaching measures which have been taken out of the context of any public policy, whether budgetary or environmental policy. These are, moreover, initiatives that result in the immediate loss of revenue without any guarantee of a direct reduction in the price of selling fuel to the public. I repeat : the decrease in unit rates of the ISP, in the context of the liberalised fuel market, does not guarantee its full impact on the price of selling fuel to the public. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the loss of tax revenue, associated with the initiatives under discussion, poses a problem for the sustainability of our public accounts. We are talking about a considerable loss of revenue that it is important for all of us to bear in mind, because we are all very aware of the efforts we have made in recent years and have allowed us to avoid the sanctions of the European Union, to leave the procedure due to excessive deficits, to reduce the financing costs of the Republic and, consequently, to have a path of reintroduction of income, reduction of direct taxes and replacement of rights. It is this sustainable path that we want to maintain and is this sustainable path of reinstatement of income and rights that we should all bear in mind in discussing these initiatives. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important not to disconnect this discussion from the discussion of environmental sustainability. Public policies cannot give contradictory signs. We cannot be committed to the targets of decarbonisation and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and, at the same time, have a policy that favours the use of fossil fuels, in particular of the most polluting. The transition from individual transport to public transport and other soft modes of mobility is a plan of all, and fiscal policy is an important support. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tax policy, if misused, can also be a signal in the opposite direction. Let me say this: the initiatives here under discussion are a sign of fiscal policy contrary to the objectives of having more sustainable mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is proposed today is to lose tax revenue without any counterpart, even for the final consumer. It is to abdicate from revenue to the detriment of the use for the implementation of public policies of mobility and of the environment that we intend to promote. on the Government's side, there is full availability to discuss the taxation of fuels associated with mobility policies in the State budget for 2019. We want an integrated discussion rather than a back-up discussion, a discussion that will ensure the sustainability of public accounts and, even more importantly, the sustainability of our mobility system and consequently of the environment. That's what we think, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese are waiting for us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u78	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records four entries of Members to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u79	Madam President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u80	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, would like to highlight the fact that the Government is present in this debate. The Government is not obliged to be in the debate, nor is it customary for it to be in the ruling agendas of opposition parties. But I think that your presence here clearly shows what we can do today differently and, above all, what we can do much better for the Portuguese. I wanted to ask you three questions. Firstly, contrary to what has been said today, the average price of petrol and gas in Portugal is not below the European average. After this increase that the Government has made, the truth is that in gas oil we are four positions above the euro area and in gasoline we are six positions above the European Union. This is when, at the end of 2015, before this same increase in gas oil, we were nine positions below the European Union average and in gasoline, three positions below. Therefore, indeed, this increase that you have decided to make has put into great difficulties families who do not even have the average income that other peoples of the European Union have. Secondly, the Secretary of State spoke of the door which launched this same increase, but I would like to remind you that, at that door, the Government said that the reference price — which it thought was the ideal — of taxation on petrol, adding VAT and ISP, was 88 cents per litre and on gas oil of 61 cents. It happens that even today, even after a fall that happened this week — unfortunately, a new climb is already planned — the government is withdrawing 93 cents per litre in gasoline and 70 cents per litre in gasoline. Therefore, as the Secretary of State realizes, the argument of neutrality that the government had promised fell to the ground and, at the moment, there is a great margin for us to come down to taxes. Third question, very focused, Mr Secretary of State, eyes in the eyes: how does someone of the Socialist Party today assume, in a very clear way, that he prefers to lower IRS (tax on income of natural people) which is a proportional tax, in which he receives the most paid tax and who receives less pay, to replace a tax that is tax-blind and in which the poorest families and the richest families pay equally? Is this social justice for the Socialist Party? Is this really, from the point of view of social equity, in the head of the Socialist Party? If it is, we're talking! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u82	Mr Heitor de Sousa also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u83	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like, in essence, to repeat one of the questions I have raised recently in response to the Socialist Party, in order to ask the Government to submit to the Assembly of the Republic the estimates it has for the year 2018 regarding the revenue it is raising and the one it estimates to collect by the end of the year in respect of ISP and VAT, either from the point of view of the singular expression of each tax, or from the accounting for the effect of double taxation affecting fuel. Without this, Mr Secretary of State, all the speeches on whether this has or does not have huge repercussions on the Budget are a bit of a threat of the genre « hold on me, because if I don't hold them I will kill them»! Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we are going to discuss things in concrete terms, whether or not there is an over- effort from a fiscal point of view in the case of fuels and in the case of the ISP, which can be accommodated by the end of the year, if there is a reduction, which the Government must of course define as a port of call, from the additional to the ISP. The second question concerns part of what Mr. Secretary of State said in his speech and which has to do with the need to discuss taxation on fuels and energy here in the Assembly of the Republic. The debate on energy prices is a debate we also want to have here in the Assembly of the Republic. And admitting that the labour law will be invoked and used to stop this reduction in the ISP, I ask the Government if it is willing to promote a complete review of the model of price fixing of fuels and energy in Portugal, cutting the selling price to the public either of the energy or of the fuels in this process of full reflection on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u84	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without any political significance, let me start by answering this last question put by Mr Heitor de Sousa, telling him clearly that the Government is available to debate energy taxation within the framework of the State budget. That is why my intervention pointed to this and I would like to reiterate our willingness here today. By continuing to answer your questions, Mr President, I would like to say the following: we can have a debate here with a great deal of numbers — and, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this respect, and depending on my position, I certainly have a lot more figures than you do. Ladies and gentlemen, what I think is most important here is to set a few points. First of all, how is the budget implementation of the ISP revenue? The latest data I have point to an increase of 2, 2 %, i.e. in line with what is the growth of the economy. Therefore, this growth in tax revenue of 2, 2 %, which makes it about EUR 29 million in these first five months of the year – that is what we are talking about, in view of what was in the Budget. Next, it is also important to underline here, with regard to VAT, that VAT, according to the Directive, affects all components of the formation of the price of fuels. So this is where we have to look at VAT. And that is why sometimes some discussion I hear about eliminating double VAT taxation has this additional issue. But the essential point here is to know why you want to reduce this tax revenue. What is the objective of reducing this tax revenue? It is that the reduction of this tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has no direct impact on what is the price of selling fuel to the public. So the question I ask is this: why do we want to lose revenue in advance without receiving anything in return? Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the honourable Member uses the average selling price to the public. And the average selling price to the public is very different in Europe, because our VAT rate is also much higher than that of the generality of the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u86	I was down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u87	And what we've been talking about, what the Portaria says and what I've been trying to convey in my speech has nothing to do with sales prices to the public, it has to do with the ISP rate. And that is where within the ISP rate we say that we are at odds with what the European trend is. Now, it might even be good to be at odds with the European trend — and, Mr President, when this government took office, although it was at odds with the European trend —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u88	You assumed that ISP was to compensate for VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u89	... but in this particular case, you must always think as follows: if you look at your left (with due respect), you have a Member who is state-of-the-art in Lisbon, and therefore you have to think - and surely Mrs Cristas is also sensitive to this matter - whether or not Portugal should make an effort to transfer individual transport to collective passenger transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u90	And Mr. Secretary of State, if you look forward to it, see here the representatives of the Portuguese, who are telling you that the value is very high!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u91	And Mr Deputy, wanting to lose tax revenue, without even being able to lower the price of fuels, may even, for example, make the extension of professional diesel impossible to public passenger transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] We have been and are clear on what our commitments are. And what we have seen here is that it is important to have a debate on the policy of setting fuel prices, but this debate must be contextualized not only in the context of the sustainability of public accounts but also in the context of environmental sustainability, in which I think, all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen can accompany us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u92	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u93	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, as regards the additional to the ISP and the updates that have ceased to be made, our position is clear. It is only necessary for the Government to clarify more clearly this option that it has taken, to make final what was not initially presented as such. In fact, all this concern about sustainable mobility, the environment, etc. , it must not have appeared and disappeared, every three months, depending on the price of the barrel of Brent at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u94	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u95	But with regard to this debate, it is also important to recall the resolution adopted in this House, on a proposal from the CFP, which is the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 240 / 2016, which, among other measures, pointed to a global and independent audit of the fuel market, including, as regards the formation of prices and profits of oil, the dissemination of the use of alternative fuels with the installation of a national compressed natural gas network, etc. , the establishment of differentiated prices, including — see well, just mentioned! — the professional gas oil for the taxi sector — a measure approved by the Assembly and not implemented by the Government — the creation of a regulated fuel price system, establishing a maximum price mechanism, with reference to average prices before taxes in the euro area. All of this was approved in the Assembly of the Republic, in 2016, on a proposal from the CFP. These measures should have already been implemented and would have largely saved the populations and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country at a price climb that has occurred in recent months.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u97	It is therefore also important to address these measures which the Government has not been putting into practice. What is the Government's explanation of this, Mr Secretary of State? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u98	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u99	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, the Government has led this whole issue of taxation on fuels, missing its word, failing clear commitments —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u101	... and, now, repeated, as recently as Mr Secretary of State, unintentionally recognized —, registered in the State Budget for 2017. When the tax was passed, the ISP, from gasoline to gas oil, said: « We are continuing the commitment of fiscal neutrality ». Now, we know that it was not neutral, because four fifths of Portuguese motorists pay gas oil and, therefore, have been paying more. But at that time you continued to affirm neutrality. It is only today — and this surprises me, Mr Secretary of State — that you have re-joined a few people without actually sitting here. And there are three things Mr. Secretary of State said that they can't go unanswered. The first is that there is no guarantee that if you lower the ISP, the price for taxpayers is lower. Mr Secretary of State, when you raised it, of course you raised the price for taxpayers and at the time you said that if the price of oil were to rise, you would reduce the ISP to reduce the price for taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u102	So, what was it for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u103	Therefore, keep at least what they said two years ago. Then Mr. Secretary of State said: "They will cause a reduction in tax revenue and will call into question the sustainability of public finances." Mr. Secretary of State, I admit that you might want to talk about another proposal, but not about the PSD. And please be serious, have the same seriousness as we did when we presented our proposal. Mr. Secretary of State knows that what we are proposing here is that it be returned to the Portuguese, in ISP, what you in 2018 are charging more in VAT than they have entered in the State Budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u104	Let's remember. When you made the calculations in September and in October 2017 presented a proposal for a State Budget Act, they said: « We will have this level of tax revenue on fuels, because the price of oil is at $55 per barrel ». Now, today, it is 35% higher, it is 75 euros per barrel. And the Secretary of State knows that, when it comes to the price, it goes up to VAT, so you are raising, as Mr Socialist has just mentioned, hundreds of millions more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u106	What we want is not that it reduces the ISP below the estimated tax revenue, we want it to reduce to the exact measure of the tax revenue in ISP and VAT that are charging the most against the forecast, in view of what was in your accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u108	So they meet neutrality, return to the Portuguese what they are paying for more than was expected. Mr. Secretary of State, what you have to do is simply protect the Portuguese from your falsehood and the increase in the price of fuels. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u109	The only way this is not true is if you are missing the truth in another way and are now spending the additional VAT revenue you were not counting on. Mr. Secretary of State, tell me two things: first of all, what is the additional VAT revenue you are receiving in 2018 due to the increase in the price of oil? How much is that in hundreds of millions of euros?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u111	Secondly, if you can't return that is because you're spending on something that you're not authorized? And if so, in what? [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u112	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the charge of 'protecting the Portuguese from our falsehood' and repeating to the exhaustion that the government is not fulfilling what it has promised, I would say the following: it is not because we repeat this idea several times that it becomes true.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u114	No, it's by itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u115	I was careful to read and quote the sources from which the Government, in 2016 and 2017, reported its policy for the ISP, in particular. It was on the 2016 portal, which approved the increase of 6 cents—and Mr. Members refer to it as 'additional', but I would ask them not to speak in 'additional', because otherwise any day we are confusing it with that additional to the ISP which is for the Permanent Forestry Fund ( FFP ), with which I am sure that none of you are. Members want to finish —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u116	Do you want to call it supertax? Call it supertax! We're calling! Or "cost tax", or "cost tax".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u117	...and in which we explained the terms in which this increase was made. I had the opportunity to quote, in my speech, what was the assumption that we were making this increase. And also what we said in 2017 following the introduction of professional gas oil and the comparison of what is not the selling price to the public but the unit rates of ISP that are practised in Portugal and the rest of Europe, taking into account in particular the differentiation that exists and that we have in relation to the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union, which is precisely that we are favouring a more polluting fuel. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not missed our word, we have not missed our word, we will never miss our word. And it is also important for us to be aware of the following: I said here that the ISP is increasing this year, according to the data I have, 2, 2 % compared to what was planned. It is a value of EUR 29 million, I repeat, EUR 29 million in total tax revenue. This is the increase we are having, the deviation from what was budgeted: EUR 29 million. Mr António Leitão Amaro pointed out one point, but I would like to make it clear that the impact of each of the proposals presented today is different. The way the PSD interprets fiscal neutrality is different from the way fiscal neutrality is interpreted in other proposals. So let us look at the imbroglio we would have here with regard to the indeterminate concept of fiscal neutrality so that we can fill it up later.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u118	Oh, do you make those consensus? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u119	The PSD votes against everything, so it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is important is, as Mr Bruno Dias said, we have an integrated policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u121	And go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u122	In other words, we do not look at the increase and decrease of the unit rates of the ISP, turning off either the fiscal consolidation policy, which allows the reinstatement of income and rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u123	We don't accept that connection well between one thing and another!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u124	...or the sustainability of our mobility system, which allows us to use public money and public resources in a strategy that favours, in the major centres — I repeat again — the transfer of individual transport to collective transport, and we will continue to invest in rail.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u125	Yeah, but the conversation two years ago, it was another!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u126	Still this week has been presented and the national investment plan is under public discussion and is this discussion, this good discussion, which is interesting and that we want to have in the Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when I say that lowering unit rates does not have a direct impact on the price of selling gas stations to the public, all Portuguese understand what I mean, because they all say that when oil comes down prices don't go down, but when oil rises prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u127	And VAT too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u128	That is why we need to move in price formation and end the liberalisation of the market!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u129	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to see the margins of the gas stations and, precisely, to get to this point...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u130	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to pay attention to the time available. I know that there is some tolerance in the management of times in these debates, but in any case it is important not to forget that we are in the framework of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u131	I'm done now, Madam President. What we want to do is make this integrated discussion so that fiscal policy does what it has to do, that is, to serve public policies. To do it differently is an avous measure, in which we only lose revenue and gain nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u132	In 2016, that wasn't the conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u133	That is why we must end the liberalisation of the market!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u134	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with another legislative initiative that, after all, seeks to sell pink dreams and forget the past of right-wing governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u136	Pink dreams? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u137	It seems that there is already time for the right to be 'fashing' to the elections, because this is clearly an electoral proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u139	So the right hand now wants to relieve the citizens of the heavy fuel taxes, but when they had the opportunity to do so they moved in a clearly different way. First, one forgets, strategically, why it is there, that this is a matter to be discussed at the heart of the State budget and then propagandises a non-existent reality. I would like to explain this: the right has forgotten to mention that it was by the right-wing government that the liberalized market saw the light of day. However, on the liberalised market, dealers may move on the sale margin of fuels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u140	Here it is! Here you go, how's the market in charge?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u141	... being more or less aggressive according to its position before the market, assuming that they do not control, of course, the international price of oil and tax. However, this proposal for a loss of revenue, as has already been stressed here this afternoon, reveals total disregard for the budgetary balance, indeed, a disregard for the labour law and certainly how good it is to realize, even by the evolution of fuel prices at different times, that it will not be absorbed by the citizens. It should be absorbed, to a large extent, by the profit margin of the concessionaires who, if they so understand, will have an opportunity to « fatten » here. In addition, it is also important to realize that only one company is responsible for around 80 % of the market and therefore, as it is usually said, it is enough to make the accounts. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] This notion has certainly not passed away from those who propose what is being presented here today. But these proposals which are being discussed here forget the challenge that this government has taken and which aims to find energy and environmentally responsible alternatives, thus responding to the new reality of people and businesses. Therefore, the single fuel supply network, whether gas oil or gasoline, has been created, which already represents about 65 % of the market, which means that consumers make this option. Professional gas oil was also introduced, allowing a reduction in tax weight of 38, 7% to around 30 % and increased public transport and investment in shared mobility. Nothing was said about this, or at least they tried to pass through the raindrops. More: they say it's not enough and this is all very heavy! If so, then we must compare. Let's start by comparing a simple thing that, in practice, everyone knows: for those who take the minimum wage, without more, and who will testify to their deposit, today we know that, for this level of income, in gasoline, the combined weight of all the taxes on petroleum products is less than what it was in 2014 and, in diesel, is equivalent. Even with the abrupt escalation of the international price of oil, as has been said, that weight is lower. The fact is that citizens are no longer overburdened. We are not indifferent to the evolution of the international price of oil, but in fact the citizens are no longer overburdened. What we know is that they want more rights and more state and what the PSD and CDS want is precisely the opposite: less state. But the PS, because it believes and wants to review the fiscal strategy, as has already been underlined here by Mr. Secretary of State, is available to do so at home with an environmental logic, because we know that this is the right time to give the right answers. in this debate, it is also important to know what expenditure they intend to cut to assume the so-called fiscal neutrality of this proposal. Do you want to cut wages, recalling your past measures? Oh, my God! Pensions? Oh, my God! Family allowance? Oh, my God! Solidarity complement for the elderly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u142	That's fallacy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u143	Or, despite what they've propagated yet this week, do you want to cut into the National Health Service? Oh, my God! This recipe is important. It is important for budgetary balance but, above all, it is important to serve the citizens and to restore and reinstate the social state which during your governance has so impoverished. Therefore, the PS is not available to align in this your election fire in the name of what you say is the service of the citizens. It is not the service of the citizens, because the citizens have suffered with your proposals and the PS will not throw out the essential just to embark on easy speeches. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u144	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u145	Mrs President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, in fact we could discuss theories about the composition of the price of fuels and their evolution, much discussed here, with reports behind the reports of the Competition Authority on prices rising like an arrow and falling like a pen, we could discuss all this theory, but that is not what is at stake, Mrs Deputie. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] What is at stake here is something very concrete, is that time-consuming nanoparticle when the Socialist Party was serious and said: « We have the low fuel price, we expect a loss of VAT revenue and we will have to create a mechanism to compensate». So far, so good! The problem arose when the price began to rise and the Socialist Party began to fit the tax tax sack into VAT. Then socialism spoke louder! [[PS protests.]] Then socialism spoke louder! That is why, after 2016, on the one hand, we have Mr. Prime Minister to say « we want a fiscal neutrality for taxpayers but also for the state » — this moment of truth », on the other hand, we have Mr. Mário Centeno to say that what has been lost in VAT has to do with the principle of fiscal neutrality and, on the other hand, we have until then the spokesman of the Socialist Party, who said the following: « I shall repeat: the tax has been calibrated so that prices are lower than those existing on 1 January ». That was the moment when the Socialist Party was serious. The problem then arose, when it came to the top of the Socialist Party's practice, which is that of taxing the Portuguese taxpayers. And it came in a completely unfair and blind form. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] It's actually a tax sack! The honourable Member says, well, that the balance of public accounts is needed — as Mr State Secretary said — but you have a tax that attacks everyone: elderly, young people, employed, unemployed, businesses, families, on the coast and on the interior. in the IRS it is still clear, because there are 50% Portuguese who do not pay IRS—and therefore would be compensated—but in the case of the ISP they all pay, Mrs Deputy, even those who do not pay IRS. in the case of the ISP they pay all and that's why this tax is unfair, it's blind, it's socialist and it's immoral. That is why we are here saying that what the State has to do is return what it did not have in its revenue, return what is not from the state but, yes, from the Portuguese. He's been told this for all the benches! And a specific question has been asked to which Mr Secretary of State did not answer: how much are they adding, to VAT, to this increase in fuel? And where is that increase going? For unaccounted revenue or for some 'hole' that you have created and that you do not want to recognise today? That's what's at stake here and there's nothing about it! "Well, we want transport sustainability," said the Secretary of State. So, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Deputies explain to us why the increase in transport was 4 % above inflation, making people, of course, more and more fleeing public transport for individual transport. Where is such sustainability and compensation for CO2 emissions? It is that «the boot does not match the partridge»! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u146	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u147	I'm done now, Madam President. Madam Member, this is not a vote hunt, it is the protection of seriousness in politics. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u148	It is the protection of the given word and the honest word. What we need to know is whether a government that says it has a mechanism to compensate the State for revenue losses does or does not comply with the word, when these losses do not occur but rather an unusual financial cash. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] That is to tell the Portuguese whether they will be relieved of this tax burden, because there will certainly be mechanisms to control whether the price of fuels rises and how it goes up or down and how it goes down. We have tools to control this and to bring justice to the Portuguese. What we are not able to control, and hence the proposals of all parties today, is the protection of seriousness in politics. And I want to know whether the Socialist Party will adhere to the seriousness of the commitments made in politics, with respect to the Portuguese, or will do only and only what socialism is user and worker: to get everything it can in tax terms to give less and less to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u149	Have you seen the INE data on the available income? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u150	We are, yes, having less quality in health, we are having less quality in transport,... [[PS protests.]] ...we're having less quality in education, we're having less quality in public services. We are not having less state, we are having much, but much worse state and yet with the Portuguese paying more and more. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. João Galamba could at least come here also to say why in 2016 he had one position and now he has another. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I already know that he is not the spokesman of the Socialist Party, but he is still a Member and can give that clarification. I'm waiting for answers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u151	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u152	Mr President, I think the answer I can give you is very easy. The Socialist Party is, has been and will be with its honored word among the citizens today, as yesterday, and tomorrow! That is what has been said here today. That is what was said in the last debate on this subject. That is what the Secretary of State has repeated. The honourable Member knows well, and he also knows that the commitment of this additional tax, of that neutrality, had to do with the 2016 Budget. It was only a fiscal year, from 1 January to 31 December, and in this case the Budget was approved after 1 January. Clearly, the Socialist Party is concerned about the effect these margins have and that the price is borne by the citizens. He has always been concerned and therefore said, for a long time now — as the Secretary of State repeated today — that he wants to review fiscal policy in the energy perspective and in an environmental spirit, but not in a pastist spirit, not in a logic to go back. What we say is that we are not going beyond anything, contrary to what happened in their time, in the time of the PSD/CDS government, in which you said they would go beyond the troika. We don't! We continue with the citizens, we continue with the defence of the citizens, and therefore we defend their environment, we defend the social state, we continue to invest in people, we will not cut wages, on the contrary, we rest incomes, we rest the social state and we invest in people. And we will continue to do so, Mr Hélder Amaral, honoring our word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u153	And throw it in the gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u154	For an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate which is now closing has determined two objectives with the proposals that have been presented to the Assembly of the Republic by the various parliamentary groups. On the one hand, populism, making consumers believe that they would be the main beneficiaries of the elimination of tax, when it is shown that this is not so, because price formulation determines the serious increase and loss of consumer capacity. On the other hand, the proposals that have been put before us themselves determine a loss of revenue which calls into question the budgetary balance and affects the public policies that this government has implemented. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I take our willingness to discuss, in a concerted manner, this and other matters at its own headquarters, which is in the discussion of the State budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u156	But parliamentary groups responsible for responsible political parties had the duty not only to have the obligation, when presenting these types of proposals, to automatically present alternatives in revenue collection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, what is demonstrated is that, on the right, there is only one thing: populism and lack of responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u157	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are discussing a set of initiatives that propose the ISP downgrading. However, this debate outside the discussion of the State budget is an irresponsible attitude and actually demonstrates an opening of the hunt to vote. This is called pure populism and pure irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u159	At the end of this debate it is important to put the points to us. In 2016, the Government promised and complied with the mechanism of fiscal neutrality. He didn't promise it for 2017 and didn't promise it for 2018. All that has been said so far, by the CDS and by the PSD, about the promise that the government has not made, is roundly false, and this clarification must be given at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u160	Show a government statement saying it was transient!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u161	But whoever hears PSD and CDS knocking on his chest, as taxpayer's providers, actually has to be shocked. It is that a few years have passed since its governance between 2011 and 2015, and we do not forget the brutal increase in taxes determined by the PSD and CDS. [[PSD protests.]] It was you who brutally increased the IRS, it was the PSD and the CDS that brutally increased the VAT on gas, on water, on electricity, it was the PSD and the CDS that increased the ISP between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And more serious, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they made this brutal increase in taxes at the same time that they cut wages, cut pensions, cut fees, cut incomes and cut more than EUR 1000 million in the National Health Service. They've increased taxes and cut into the state! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members, at that time, PSD and CDS, when they increased taxes, when they cut into the rights, when they cut into income, when they cut into wages, they thought about families, as they say today they think? Oh, my God! It is that PSD and CDS have already become used to us, and have already become used to the Portuguese, to be aware when they are in opposition, but when they are in power they increase taxes and rule against the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the proposals which the PSD and the CDS have brought here today, and which are under discussion, were responsible, they would be quantified. If they were responsible proposals, PSD and CDS said: « Well, in order to compensate for the decline in revenue from the decline in ISP, we propose that the A tax or B tax be increased or cut in social expenditure A or social expenditure B ». But even for that, there was courage on the part of the PSD and the CDS! I repeat, then, the proposals here today are irresponsible proposals! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your proposals and your conduct in this debate have a name: demagogy! In democracy, demagogy is combated and that is what we will do next at the time of the vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then move on to the conclusion of the debate, to which Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are now entering the conclusion phase of today's debate. I remember that this is not the first debate on this issue, because, a short time ago, this matter was brought by the voice of the PSD to this House. This debate is important and urgent, but it is recognised that this debate should never have needed to happen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u164	Let's go to parties: the famous question of additional oil product tax began in 2016. It was created for, and I quote, « to compensate for the loss of VAT on fuels ». It was said and drafted that it was only at issue to ensure that, in view of the lowest price of the oil barrel, the State reached the same volume of taxes, i.e. also the famous fiscal neutrality. We all remember, and are recorded, the statements of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister on the subject. But it is clear today that it was a lie! [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] The nearly 1000 million additional revenue that the government and the PS confess has been raised, since 2016, where did they come from? The answer is simple: they came out of the pockets of the Portuguese, our businesses and the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, who both said they wanted to help. The Portuguese are not stupid and all, all, those who turn daily to fuel stations, taking out those who go to Spain, where prices are notoriously lower, feel the growth, sometimes galloping and weekly, of prices, and have all realized that the government has lied. He lied, when he guaranteed that this measure was merely conjunctural and to respond to the low VAT revenue; he lied, when he promised quarterly revisions of the value of the ISP, depending on the change in the base price of the petroleum products ; he lied, when he assured that there would be « fiscal neutrality for taxpayers and also for the State ». Until a 15-year debate on 23 May last was used to lie, this time by the mouth of Mr. Prime Minister of Portugal, who was allowed to say in this Chamber that « over these two and a half years, the tax burden on gas oil and gasoline has been coming down, has not been increasing», which left the Chamber perplexed but, we agree, not surprised. As if it were not enough, the government still produced two more doors. And two would wear what for? The same purpose: increase tax. But more important and serious than all the lies we have heard are that the government continues to lie, because it does not correct this serious and unjust situation. In short, the government had once met the already sadly known expression 'the word given, the word honored' and we would not have this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is in this debate the way Portuguese expect us, i.e. vigilante, responsible and credible proposals. The PSD proposal we bring to the vote today is serious, coherent and allows us to correct this situation immediately, without harming any law and ensuring true fiscal neutrality. In response to the portals, the Government will have to approve only one other, which reduces the tax on petroleum products, taking into account the real change in VAT that has been considered. Even in the other proposals that are being approved and lowered to the specialty, even in those proposals, the PSD will fight for responsibility, i.e. for the Portuguese to return what they are paying the most in VAT in the context of the ISP recipe. This is what is called true fiscal neutrality. And the Portuguese need to know that today, in the Assembly of the Republic, this serious injustice is only not corrected if the Left Block and the PCP do not want to. It's time to drop the mask and speak truth to the Portuguese. Is the Bloc and the PCP with the government or, after all, I quote, "stabil, credible and consistent solution" that the PS called for to usurp power in 2015 is also a lie? Oh, my God! The Portuguese believed and consumption credit has gone off, housing credit has grown a lot and there is a large part of the country that thinks everything has changed and that everything is okay. But it begins to become particularly visible that the promises of economic miracle did not pass from an outrage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u166	at the end of three years of reversals and captivitys, to the blight of the results of the previous government and the good international moment, reality begins to fall on the government. When the argument is already 'no money' ; when teachers are promised what they were supposed to be unable to comply with, but they are going to have a just solution ; when we have ruptures in hospitals qualified as historians and the health sector is in serious operational difficulties ; when the transport sector is in neglect and even the TAP, in which the State has entered all swelled, brings new risks to the state ; when, after all, the other path, which was said to exist, it is only possible with more and more covert austerity and disguised cuts, captivitys and indirect taxes, it is time to demand the government, and to the parties that support it, truth and clarity! Today, we will be able to have one of these moments of truth and clarity. It wasn't timeless! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u167	To conclude this debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is not a debate about the time of bankruptcy or about the time when, fortunately, we were able to grow again from an economic point of view, because if this debate were about the time of bankruptcy and about who led us to bankruptcy, surely the Socialist Party would not be well in that picture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u170	But this is not what brings us here, this debate is about something completely different, it is about the word given to the Portuguese, it is about the promises and commitments that the political rulers and, in this case, the Socialist Party have taken on with the Portuguese, and then they have failed. The Minister of Finance said that on the day he presented the ISP tax (charge on petroleum products) — I call it over-tax of ISP, Mr Secretary of State, because I realized that he was upset with the additional, if I may call it « charge cost », if I may call him instead of the rate of ISP, « tax of the Socialist Party », IPS ; I have no problem giving him the name that Mr. Secretary of State wants, but Mr. Mário Centeno said, and I quote, «we want to charge exactly what has been lost in VAT. The principle is that of fiscal neutrality." António Costa said: "What we wanted was to have fiscal neutrality for taxpayers, but also for the state", end of quote. The then Secretary of State for Tax Affairs said: « one hundred per 4 cent increase can always be lowered », and even the spokesman of the Socialist Party said that « the tax has been calibrated so that prices are lower than what existed on 1 January 2016 ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party never said that the tax was transient, temporary, ephemeral or even passenger. The word that you have given is the word that we want it to be effectively fulfilled today and that is why we bring this diploma. You promised fiscal neutrality, you missed your word, you broke your promise, you can even say, given word, revenue collected, broken promise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But the government, also above, dies through the mouth like fish, because the government said that the appropriate level of taxation in the case of gasoline was 88 cents per litre and is currently charging 93 cents and, in the case of gas oil, it said it was 61 cents per litre and at the moment it is charging 70 cents per litre. For the same reason, we realize that this tax is today very much weighed in Portuguese pockets, and when we say it is too much, it is about EUR 900 million above the promised fiscal neutrality. But the worst thing, according to the government's calculation, is that when gasoline goes up, the government fits much more into taxes and, when gasoline goes down, instead of giving any strike to the Portuguese, there's the state keeping that margin, keeping that strike, ensuring that the government always wins, and that's always the same thing to win. And those who pay are, unfortunately, the same as ever: the Portuguese! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And this, perhaps, does not contrast with the Socialist Party. It is important to remind those who now speak in hunting the vote that the Socialist Party, before the elections, had as a great promise to lower taxes, lower the tax burden, but when we now consult data from the INE (National Institute of Statistics), what do they tell us? That this is the biggest tax burden ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u172	But that is also what you can begin to change today, and we will then exercise our right to vote freely. It is very important that we also realize that what the Socialist Party is saying today, that it needs this tax, for example, to be able to lower the IRS, is, from a social point of view, the greatest injustice that can be done. [[Protests of PS Members.]] I see some Members of the Socialist Party very much opening their arms, speaking very loudly, because they want to replace, in voice, what they lose in reason, by talking about the poorest and the most disadvantaged. I wanted to tell you very clearly the following : in Portugal, half of the Portuguese do not pay IRS. If the IRS goes down, these people will not be affected by it, but all of them, directly or indirectly, pay the fuel tax. in the interior of the country, a poor family has to have its own car; on the coast, in large urban areas, those who travel public transport are paying more 4 %, above inflation. And this is also due to the blindness of the Socialist Party, it is due to the tax injustice that this tax closes, because it is a tax blind from a fiscal point of view: it pays equally the poor and the rich, the remedied or the middle class. It is also this injustice that we want to start correcting. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by saying only the following: it is the fifth time that the CDS brings this diploma to Parliament ; since the first hour, since February 2016, we have always answered this supertax, this « Costa rate », this « Socialist Party tax », we always answer it in all budgets, here in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. We shall then exercise our right to vote freely. This state of things can begin to change right now. We, with our vote — and this is also an appeal to the Socialist Party — and the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, with your vote, we can help the Socialist Party and the Government to honour the word you have given. Let's see how they behave right away. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on today's agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u174	Mr. President, I call on you. Mr President, what effect is it, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u175	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau because Mr Pedro Mota Soares, for the sixth time, insists on lying on the issue of fiscal neutrality. [[Protests of the CDS-PP, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u176	Mr. Deputies, you have to justify the appeal. What is the purpose of the inquiry?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u177	Mr President, I wanted to ask that the six gates be distributed, as a result of the Budgets, in which only in 2016 is spoken in fiscal neutrality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u178	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u179	Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u181	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u182	Mr President, I would ask that two documents be distributed: the first official office of the Government which clearly said that the tax was 88 cents and is now 93 cents; and the statements of the various leaders of the Socialist Party, in which this tax was never said to be transient, temporary, ephemeral or passenger. Mr. President, allow me alone...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u183	We are not going to get into the background debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u184	... still within the scope of the appeal to the Bureau,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u185	...we are responding to an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u186	... to say the following: the Socialist Party's bench accused me of lying. The actions remain for those who practice them, when the elements are missing, they turn to insult. That's what we don't admit to that bench! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u187	Be registered. We're not going to continue this incident. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. I ask the services that prepare us terminals so that we can electronically sign up for deliberation quorum. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to account for the diplomas that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein.o 927 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prohibits the production and commercial cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( repeal of Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April and Decree-Law No 160 / 2005 of 21 September 2005 ) ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 928 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assigns a temporary residence visa to foreign citizens with a year of social security discounts ( BE ), which goes down to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1724 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary actions with a view to the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( BE ), which is down to 9. the Commission, and 1725 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — improving public hospital health care in the Algarve ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u189	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 209 presences, to which 2 are added — those of the Members. Members of the PSD Margarida Mano and Miguel Morgado — thanking 211 Members, we therefore have quorum to vote. Let's start by voting, in general, bill No. 884 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No. 400 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Reduce the price of road gas through the level of incorporation of biofuels ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 922 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — eliminates the additional tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and approves the monthly revisions of the unit rates of tax applicable to leadless petrol, road gas oil and colored diesel and marked for the continent ( BE) ( title and initial text were replaced at the request of the author ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1653/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from BE.]] This draft resolution is down to 5. the Commission. Finally, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes the immediate reduction of the ISP and its adequacy to the increase in the price of oil ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, the votes against the PS and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u191	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u192	Mr President, to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the initiatives we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-21.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, from 10 a.m. on the following agenda: in point one, by marking the Left Block, there is generally discussion of draft law No 914 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — New Basic Health Law ( BE) ; in point two, without discussion, is resolution No 69 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016 ; in point three, also without discussion, there is motion for a resolution No 70 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Establishment and Operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, signed in Vienna on 1 June 1993 in the wording of its Third Amendment, signed in Rhodes on 25 June 2003 ; in point four, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 45 minutes.]]
