ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. We moved on to the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 154 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the legal regime for arms and their munitions, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 853, and Bills Nos 837 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Opens an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms, 859 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Establishs the realization of a campaign of awareness and a new voluntary delivery period of firearms, with a view to disarming society, 899 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates a awareness campaign for the importance of voluntary delivery of firearms and ammunition, giving a new deadline for voluntary delivery without criminal proceedings, and 931 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the introduction of criminal proceedings accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure. To present the bill and to intervene in the debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Government is presenting a legislative initiative which is part of what is the Portuguese tradition of strict regulation of the use of personal defence, hunting and guard weapons for the purposes of collectionism. This legislative initiative is in line with the guidelines adopted either under the United Nations Protocol on the Use of Firearms and their transposition into European regulations, or within the framework of the European Directive on the Control of the Acquisition and Detention of Weapons, adopted in 2017, and which establishes as the first deadline for transposition at the end of 2018. Simplification mechanisms are introduced in the licensing and registration of weapons, allowing it to be possible at national level to have perfect information on who are the holders of arms, as established mechanisms for registering the use of ammunition. In this way, transitional mechanisms are established that do not allow for questioning the licences already granted and for establishing 5 years' validity deadlines for new licences, a 10-year period of adaptation for current arms holders and a maximum limit of 25 weapons in categories C and D, held by each hunter, which has been discussed with the hunters' associations, with a five-year deadline of adaptation. Also, rules are laid down both on the custody of arms at home and on the relationship with intermediaries, armaments and security forces. Finally, rules are laid down on the type of weapon that can be used by municipal police. The calculations we have point to the existence of a significant security framework that marks Portugal as one of the safest countries in the world, one and a half million arms in the possession of individuals. It is about this framework, aware of international trends and the adoption of common rules in the European framework, which are proposed mechanisms for transparency, simplification, promotion of the delivery of weapons that are not used to security forces, thus contributing to the simplification and clarification of rules, for the discipline in the use of weapons, respecting all traditions, all existing values and contributing to Portugal, also in this area, to continue to be what we rightly pride ourselves, that is, one of the most secure countries in Europe and the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u3	To present the PCP bill and to intervene in the debate, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The CFP participates in this debate through the discussion of the bill that it presented in order to allow anyone holding arms in an illegal situation but who intends to surrender them voluntarily to the State is not subject to any criminal or counter-order national procedure. We know that these are situations that may occur, in particular through inheritances caused by the death of family arms holders, to people who are owned by weapons that do not even intend to use. The fact is that, from the moment someone manifests an illegal weapon, the offence is committed and that person is liable, including, to criminal proceedings. Thus, in a non-armed society as we intend, we advocate that those who want to voluntarily surrender the weapons that stop them from doing so without any fear of any penalty for it. At the time of the arms law of 2006 — in fact, the original version of the law that is proposed today to amend — this possibility was enshrined for a relatively tight period, although it has been useful. Since then, the CFP has already repeatedly brought to this House the proposal to open a new deadline for this possibility, which has not been approved so far. This review of the law of arms is an opportunity for that. We therefore advocate that, following this legislative process, the possibility of voluntary surrender of weapons without penalties can be opened. However, the Government brings forward a proposal for a comprehensive review of the arms law. It's a complex matter. We just need to recall the 2006 discussion to understand the very diverse complex issues that arise. In addition to claims that we may have at least reasonable claims from someone who contests the rigor and the requirement for ownership, possession and possession of weapons, there are issues that are legitimate, which must be addressed and the discussion in the specialty should serve precisely for this. of the opinions already received by this House, there is a very significant set of objections which, we understand, this process should be balanced with all the reasonableness. This is therefore a work which is at the outset in this House and which must be developed in the competent parliamentary committee, equating the reasons of the most diverse entities, of the most diverse interests, including legitimate interests, related to hunters, collectors, with the various sports that use weapons. There is a whole set of diverse, disparate realities, whose objections must be effectively equated, in cases to give them reason and in others, perhaps not to give them reason. In any case, it is good that this legislative process is the least controversial possible and that the reasonable, reasonable reasons put in this legislative process can indeed come to an equal footing. The CFP argues that it must be limited, the possibility of the indiscriminate use, possession and possession of weapons must be restricted. There must be rigour in this matter. It doesn't mean there isn't, we're not from scratch. The 2006 law was criticised by several sectors, in some respects, by their excessive rigour, in other respects, by the discretion open in the assessment of the security forces as to whether or not it was an infringement of the law of arms. We consider it fair that this law should be reviewed, that it should be seen whether in some respects greater rigour is necessary and whether in others it is possible to limit this discretion, which has been one of the reasons for criticism of existing legislation. Of course, this is something that will not fail to be equationd into the specialty process that we are going to have in front of us. We believe that it would be reasonable, in order to prevent there from being a cleavage in this House, for the initiatives to go down to the Commission without a general vote, so that, without any kind of embarrassment, there can be an open discussion on the best regime for the law of arms and that it is as much as possible consensualized. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u5	To present the Green Bill and to intervene in the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Greens today propose to the Assembly of the Republic, through a bill, first of all, the launch of a public awareness campaign, in general, for the importance of not having illegal weapons and for the disarmament of our society and, secondly, precisely with this objective, opening a new period of voluntary delivery of illegal weapons, allowing their surrender to the State without subjecting to criminal procedures. The period of half a year, therefore, six months, manifests, in our perspective, perfectly suitable to achieve this objective. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that the detention, use and carrying of firearms or ammunition is not permitted, as it is known, except under the conditions laid down in Law No 5/2006, which establishes the Legal Regime of Arms and Their Munitions, better known as the law of arms, and which has already undergone several changes over the years. For the most effective control of arms in Portugal and with a view to precisely discouraging the illegal possession of arms, Article 115 ( 1 ) was determined. the law, which, and I quote, "All possessors of unexpressed or registered firearms shall, within 120 days of their entry into force, require their presentation to be examined and manifest, and there shall be no criminal procedure. In other words, so that people were not afraid to declare possession of unregistered weapons or to proceed with their surrender to the State because they could be subject to a criminal procedure, a period of four months was opened, in which it was possible for many people to carry out the delivery of firearms they had at home, many who had already lost track of their acquisition, in particular because they belonged to family members who had already died. The fact is that 12 years have passed and since then no period with the same objective, voluntary delivery of weapons, has been established and opened. Law No 5 / 2006 established that the licence for the possession of arms at home has a validity of 10 years, which led many people, at the end of that period, to surrender their weapons for various reasons, including the requirements necessary for renewal of licences, for example, because of the costs they considered they were not willing to pay. Despite what has been mentioned in the last five years, for example, the security forces have been seized, according to public data, by more than 60 000 illegal weapons. In view of this reality, it is essential — the Greens would like to highlight this aspect — to combat the criminal trade in illegal arms sales, as well as the arrest and use of firearms which often result, as is known, in practices of crimes as serious as murder, and which are undeniably a factor that generates a feeling of insecurity in the citizens. From the perspective of the Greens, it is therefore very important to ensure measures that enable us, as a society, to walk towards disarmament. Both the National Justice and Peace Commission and the Security Information Service as it has become public have been alerting for the importance of disarmament campaigns and the fight against illegal weapons in our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to this end that the Greens propose to the Assembly of the Republic, I repeat, the launch of a awareness campaign for the importance of not having illegal weapons and, on the other hand, to open such a voluntary period of delivery of illegal weapons without subjecting to criminal procedures, for which we propose that it be six months, being, of course, prepared to examine, in the context of the speciality discussion, the most appropriate deadlines for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u8	To present the Bill of the Left Block and to intervene in the debate, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We should not need any more violent murder in the context of domestic violence or any more stupid death of a child for handling weapons at home to think, in essence, of the greatest challenge for the security of our society, which is a robust and demanding regulation of the possession and use of firearms in our country. in a study that I myself coordinated about 10 years ago, an estimate below pointed to an annual average expenditure, for the State, of about 108 million euros in direct costs, such as hospital treatment and loss of productivity, and indirect, such as suffering and loss of quality of life, of accidents caused by firearms. These costs reach the hospital sector, but also come from the impact of these accidents on the justice, police and prison sectors, and are expressed not only in direct monetary values, but also in the loss of productivity of victims and their families. In the name of the prevention of violence with firearms, in the name of the reduction in the number of its victims, direct and indirect, and in the name of the reduction in the costs that Portuguese society has to pay for all this, we generally follow the proposed law that the Government submits. It adopts a certain philosophy: possessing and using firearms is, as a rule, illegal and only exceptionally that possession and use should be admitted. There are two types of criticisms to this proposal: some point to rigour failures in some of the diploma's predictions, accepting, however, its restrictive logic as correct; others challenge the very guiding principle of the proposal, claiming that a possession and use which is exceptional is, after all, a right, calling for minimalist regulation that few limitations impose on that supposed right. The Left Block accepts the first criticisms and joins some of them. In the specialty, we will present proposals that amend some of the rules of the law, with a view to correcting solutions that we do not consider appropriate and thus meet warnings that have been presented to us by various sectors of Portuguese society. In no way do we join the lobbies that have made a campaign of 'bolosonarism' disguised against anything that restricts the possession and use of weapons, which the Left Block totally repudiates. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that illegal weapons continue to be the main problem that requires a certain attitude by a responsible State. All legal instruments to act in reducing the stock of illegal weapons must be mobilized. It is in this sense that the Left Block proposes to open a 180-day period so that those who have firearms not manifested or registered voluntarily deliver them to the GNR or the PSP, and there is no criminal procedure. We also propose that the Government promote a awareness-raising campaign on this issue and on the importance of voluntary arms delivery. We understand that this is how it acts responsibly against cheap populisms and by serious regulation of firearms in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u10	To present the draft law of the NAP and to intervene in the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a NAP initiative which aims to implement a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition, without criminal proceedings, accompanied by an information campaign for cross-border disclosure throughout the national territory, raising awareness among all Portuguese regarding the importance of disarmament. We therefore encourage the delivery of these weapons and, consequently, the destruction of these weapons by the police. The proposed law submitted by the Government is generally positive and also aims to limit the possession of weapons, but the provisions of Article 38. the vote against the NAP. in an effort to encourage kinetic tourism, the Government creates the possibility for hunting zone managers to implement a system of arms transfer to foreign citizens for the practice of the venatoria act. In a country where more than 2 million animals are hunted per year—only in the ordered areas! — where there is no idea of the number of animals of existing kinetic species, because there are no censuses, where various species are at risk of extinction, the Government considers that importing people who travel to Portugal on purpose to have fun hunting and to drag our fauna is a worthy idea of integrating a bill. On the basis of this proposal, there is no need for kinetic control of species but, rather, for giving in to the hunting industry across the line. We already know the false avenue that comes there from the development of the interior, but the exploitation of low density areas is done through policies responsible for the forest, it is done with the promotion of biological agriculture or with programmes to preserve and promote nature and not with the sale of our heritage and natural values to those who have fun practicing its destruction. But does anyone think that who pays to slaughter animals, many avians, does it with the noble mission to preserve biodiversity? Oh, my God! For these people, to whom the government wants to sell the interior, nature has value only if it is exploited and animals have value only if they are used to be hunted and displayed as trophies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u12	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u13	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government submits a bill invoking a European directive, but imposing restrictions which the Directive does not have and which do not exist in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u15	The Government decides, with this proposal, to link sports shooters, collectors, hunters and other legal weapons holders, people who have inherited a weapon, with the potential serious crime, thus reaching a sector with great impact throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u17	The Government decides to disregard the arms sector by triggering a legislative process with a set of rules which, not emanating from the European directive, aim to restrict the rights of all those who legally and under their license own weapons that they have acquired in accordance with the law. What we know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that Portugal was considered the third most peaceful country in the world and we do not really know what the criminal phenomena that have occurred in order to justify the presentation of this bill. What we know is that crime has decreased. What we know again is that the Community directive does not require the proposals that the Government makes. What we know is that the sector presents arguments, technical and legal, which support the enormous subjectivity about what is permitted or what is forbidden and punished, which makes criminal norms vague and for no concrete purpose. Such subjectivity, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will result in difficulties and even in practical absurdities! The abstraction of the definitions in the diploma leads us not to know what is, or not, a firearm and what is legal, even if we are at risk that some citizens are arrested for the crime of prohibited weapon, given the intelligibility of the diploma presented by the Government today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u18	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, this bill really points to solutions which the PSD Parliamentary Group considers highly controversial and without any justification, so it matters a full answer to some questions so that we can continue to discuss this proposal. Mr Minister, what is the Government's intention with the presentation of these profound changes which are at no time contained in the directive in question and which will not be parallel in other countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u21	Mr Minister, it is important to clarify why the amendments to Articles 13 should be amended. o and 14. the Act No. 5 / 2006 of 23 February, which, in practice, will virtually completely extinguish the issue of licences for use and carrying arms of categories B and B1. It is important to clarify why renewable detention permits should be terminated from 10 to 10 years, as well as the termination of life detention permits. It is also important to clarify why the imposition of the limit of 25 weapons of categories C and D, held by each hunter, thereby preventing options necessary for the diversified practice of possible kinetic activities and involving the disposal of surplus, which will cause damage of thousands and even millions of euros to current owners. Mr. Minister, it is appropriate to realize that the weapons legally detained are heritage, are acquired rights and are the expression of the property of constitutional protection,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u22	Ui! The property! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u23	... and that sometimes they close, themselves, an emotional value.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u24	Oh, my God! I like my gun so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u25	Pretend that they are delivered for destruction or ruined by deactivation processes is highly harmful and unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u27	Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to make a difference, this is certainly not the way! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u28	For an intervention, Mr António Gameiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u29	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Faces and Dear Colleagues : The Government's legislative initiative aims to revise the European regime for the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and to strengthen the fight against their misuse and crime, also in response to the recent wave of terrorist attacks in European space. In fact, a substantial part of the diploma we are considering today generally stems not only from the legislative will of the Government, but from obligations of which the Portuguese State and, above all, Parliament cannot resign and which aim to bring more security to Portuguese and to all Europeans. in a time of threats and risks like that in which we live, we cannot devalue and much less ignore that this is a debate and legislative work for which we are called and to which we cannot turn our backs. No circumstantial divergence or particular interest can prevent us from finding consensus that makes this Law more effective in the name of the best interest of the Portuguese people, which is to keep the country more and more secure and that this value, every day, becomes more economic, social and civil value added. We know that this is a discussion that is not, nor can it be, in any way, immune to controversy between those who want more control and those who want less control in the use of weapons and their relationship with crime and security rates. The intervention of the PSD is, in fact, very clear and detailed about this situation: less control of the State over weapons, weapons at home of untitled people to stop and handle them! [[PSD protests.]] Proud of being among the safest countries in the world and based on their humanist and personalist matrix, our country must once again be on the right side: on the side of demand, rigour, security and protection of people's lives. For this reason, the Government has made good use of this opportunity to promote, inter alia: new very specific improvements to the existing arms regime; more restrictive rules in relation to the number of weapons that can be acquired, in accordance with the licence obtained and the conditions required for it; new mechanisms for greater control of weapons for civilians, requiring new markings in weapons, parts and essential components; revision of the rules for the export and import of firearms, complying with their European regulations; a new computer system for armaments, the mandatory registration on that platform of arms purchases and sales among individuals and new rules of procedure for the transmission of weapons; the revocation of the licence of detention in the household with transitional period for the regularization of weapons held, as an alternative to its deactivation; a uniform period of validity for all licences; the stricter criteria for the allocation of arms licence, which complements the need for new life protection and the physical integrity of the weaponry system; the clarification of the defence system to allow the weapons to be implemented. However, we defend a law that increases the feeling of greater security and social serenity, that removes weapons from the possession of those who should not have them, especially the weapons inherited by those who do not have title or legitimacy to do so, and that limits the use of personal defence weapons. We defend this principle, because to inherit a weapon is to inherit a property subject to the registration and public license of the State for personal use and therefore only can and should be in the possession of the citizen legally and authorized. Inheriting a weapon is not inheriting a driving vehicle. We're talking about different concepts. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Comparison with any other inherited property is unlawful and illegal in the light of the constitutional principle of the protection of the fundamental right to national security, internal security, as a fundamental task of the State prescribed in Article 27. that of our Constitution, in Title, notes « Rights, freedoms and guarantees », when suspended with the principle of the individual ownership of the mobile property held for inheritance without due public authorization, as provided for in Article 62. the Constitution, in Title III, « Economic, social and cultural rights and duties ». Therefore, it is a right which cannot be surpassed by a fundamental right. There are options that certainly do not satisfy everyone, but they are proposed, as is due, after a wide hearing process, as shown by the opinions sent by the Government accompanying the initiative. We will be here, as we have already been approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, to deepen and extend this debate in the field of expertise, without dogmas, prejudices or preconceived ideas. We are in favour of the country, we are not in favour of anyone individually considered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u30	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u31	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I will focus on the bill that the government brings to us. With regard to bills, we do not have much to say, we are obviously not against an exceptional deadline and, therefore, there will not be much to say in this regard. Focusing on the proposed arms law that the Government is bringing to us, I would like to say the following: this proposal takes advantage of a purpose and uses a pretext. The pretext is, of course, the European directive on the law of arms, which is used to achieve a completely different purpose from what the Directive itself proposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u33	The law departs from the Directive in numerous matters. Moreover, what is the focus of the Directive? It focuses on the acquisition, detention, licensing, collectionism itself and, in particular, the terrorist threat in Europe, the issue of the movement, trade and use of these weapons. On the pretext of this, the proposal that the government is bringing us away, goes to other ways, often in an unreasonable and disproportionate way. Otherwise, sin, at the same time, by excess and by default. Too bad, because it decides to attack a set of sectors, to begin, obviously, by hunting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u34	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u35	...that he didn't deserve or need this attack. It is a mistake, because the very classification and listing of weapons, contained in the Directive, are not transposed into the proposed law today under discussion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u36	If the Directive focuses, as we have said, on a matter of marking and monitoring, the proposal introduces restrictions which are often unreasonable. Moreover, with the argument, which we have now heard of the Socialist Party, of the risk, of illegal trade, of trafficking, it does not cease to be curious and, Mr Minister, it may be intended to recall that the only cases of effective risk of armament, in some cases, of high caliber and, in other cases, of weapons of war, which have gone around there, which have gone around on the way to terrorist organizations, were not because of legal detainees, were not because of those who pay taxes and have the weapons well kept in safe houses at home,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u39	... it was because the State was not able to guarantee, first, in the PSP with the Glocks and then in Tanks, that the weapons that were on its guard were not to stop the external circulation, were not to stop a possible terrorist threat. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] In this respect, the subject was not, Mr Minister, when you answered me, in committee, that one thing had nothing to do with the other and that the case of the Glocks was not in any way associated with Tanks nor was it the same standard, I tell you today we know it wasn't just the same standard as it was even the same organization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u40	He was the same thief!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u41	...the same thief, which is even more serious! Therefore, this law should attack those who are traffickers, it should attack those who are illegal detainees, it should attack those who use weapons for crime, with that intention. But don't do that! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Who's attacking? It attacks the hunters, who are limited in the number of weapons they can hold, are limited in the possibility of using these weapons in certain circumstances, attacks the sporting shooters, who suffer the same limitation, and attacks a fundamental right that should not be attacked, which is the right of ownership. These weapons are often very valuable, they can be family goods that have an economic value and also estimating value and by preventing arrest permits, by preventing these people from having the same weapons, of course, is an unnecessarily unnecessary and absurd attack.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u43	And, Mr Minister, when speaking in national security, it should be remembered that even the security forces themselves, even the Judicial Police itself ( PJ ) — and we have heard a number of opinions on this matter — are against this model, because the very leaders of the security forces, for example the PJ inspectors, are in the same situation as any ordinary citizen, not to stop the weapon they use in the exercise of functions, but to be able to have the weapon personally or in particular, and the risk to any of our fellow citizens is obviously not the risk that a Councillor, for example, is entitled to the possession of arms and can always use it and in any circumstances. They are not in the same situation and therefore the law should be careful. I would also like to give an example — Mr State Secretary is in doubt: the case of the safety of night guards. Nightguards themselves are limited in the type of weapon they can use and that, obviously, is not a good. As the association of nightguards itself says, it's a bad thing and it's negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u44	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u45	I'm done, Mr. President. In other words, the Government seems to ignore the real problem of the need for arms limitation, its circulation and, above all, — and in this respect, we agree — of the monitoring of weapons, their marking, their identification and their registration to then attack a number of sectors, including a sector of the economic point of view that is very important for our country and important for the interior, which is hunting. Sir, don't say it's a girl or I don't know what. It's true! Inland hunting is a very important economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u46	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u47	I therefore conclude by saying the following: by not solving the security problem, creating a problem that does not exist, this proposal, from our point of view, and it is no exchange, it can only deserve a lead! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u48	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative has clear objectives. We are proud of Portugal to be one of the safest countries in the world, the fourth safest country in the world, and this is done by preventive measures, is made of a global strategy that makes us intervene in areas as different as that of security in schools, support for the elderly or active combat on the causes of domestic violence. Secondly, the European directive which is transcribed here is very clear. It is 2017, and it takes into account the unfortunate recent developments in many European countries, which we need to prevent in Portugal. It's not waking up after they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u51	It is necessary to improve the Directive in a proportionate way in order to combat the misuse of firearms for criminal activities and to take account of recent terrorist acts. The revision of rules and the adoption of a common approach to the deactivation of firearms is necessary in order to prevent their reactivation and use by criminals. It's pure demagogy to come to talk about private property.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u53	It is pure demagogy, against the safety of the Portuguese, to come to speak of a fundamental right to the use of weapons. This is the reference of other unsafe countries, not the model of Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u55	That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who establish a transitional rule, in one case for 5 years and in another for 10 years. That is why rules are laid down for delivery time without any sanction of weapons possessed by the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u56	You've outlived your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u57	We have all the expertise to listen to, to dialogue, to welcome all the proposals aimed at deepening this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u58	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u59	Mr Telmo Correia, 25 weapons in your possession are more than enough for every right to hunt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u60	I've got zero, none!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u61	They're more than enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u62	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is generally assessed by the Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive No 2017 / 2399 ( EU ) on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. You have the floor, to open the debate, Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It has been three years since the entry into force of the European banking recovery and resolution regime. This scheme also included a change in the creditors' hierarchy as regards part of the depositors in case of insolvency. Since then, the status of protection of the remaining deposits has been discussed in relation to debt instruments issued by banks. The bank deposit is always seen as a risk-free application. It is an application that supports a great deal of the financial life of families, businesses and the State. It is an instrument based on the basic trust relationship of the financial system and therefore its protection plays an essential role. in this diploma, the government grants special protection to all deposits in case of insolvency or settlement of a bank. Deposits up to €100,000 are already guaranteed today by the Public Deposit Guarantee Fund which assumes this responsibility and is therefore privileged creditor in case of insolvency. Next, in the creditors' hierarchy, the deposits of households and SMEs (small or medium-sized enterprises) are already above €100,000, giving them a very low risk in case of insolvency or resolution. The other deposits are repaid only after the refund of the deposits I have now mentioned and in competition with other debt instruments, whether they are obligations or others. In order to safeguard the relationship of trust between banks and their customers, the Government believes that all deposits should be privileged from any debt instruments. A deposit is a risk-free asset and on it there can be no doubt. It should therefore enjoy superior protection and there should be a proper perception of the risk of each financial instrument. The Government proposes that from now on all deposits benefit from greater protection than debt instruments, while maintaining the privilege of deposits that are currently protected from the rest, which we now want to protect. The amendment we propose protects deposits of pension funds, such as social security funds, allowing the State Treasury to also deposit funds with banks and provide security for deposits of public undertakings. It also provides security for private companies and encourages them to manage their treasury with the Portuguese banks. This proposal does not increase public guarantee. Only deposits up to €100,000 are covered by the Fund, public, Deposit Guarantee. in this respect, everything remains the same. This proposal aligns the insolvency hierarchy with the current practice in resolution decisions, where all deposits have been protected from other financial products. This proposal brings safer depositors and strengthens confidence between banks and their customers. It also strengthens financial stability. A deposit is a trust agreement between the bank and the customer, whether it is a family, a company or the State. A deposit cannot be seen as a product at risk. Also within the framework of this proposal for a European directive which defines a new type of debt instrument to be issued by the banks, an instrument which, in insolvency or resolution, will be graduated between subordinated liabilities and common liabilities. Thus, the range of instruments available to banks to meet minimum own funds requirements and eligible liability is extended. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this proposal, we give more security to the deposits of families, the state and companies; with this proposal, we introduce new financing instruments that allow banks to meet their prudential requirements at less cost; with this proposal, we continue to strengthen the stability of the financial system. Thank you very much and good parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u64	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: With this bill, the Government intends to grant a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits. The allocation of this credit privilege represents an improvement in the current situation, but it does not mislead us—we cannot be deluded, because the fundamental problem remains, which is the existence of resolution mechanisms to ensure that banking activity can continue in the hands of the private. Indeed, the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism are based on the principle that banking activity takes place in a market like any other, not taking into account that money, credit and savings are a public good and should, as such, be under public control. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u66	It was precisely to maintain the banking business in the hands of the private that the resolution mechanisms were created, which aim, essentially, to ensure that depositors and investors pay for the failure of the private management of the bank. It would be bad enough if this failure were due solely to fluctuations in the financial market, but, as we know from the situation in our country over the years, a significant part of the bank's losses is due to harmful and criminal management, which pays large economic groups and shareholders, while transferring losses to States and depositors. Moreover, the procedures for the settlement and settlement of banks are increasingly away from the intervention and decision of the Portuguese State. In fact, if the Banco de Portugal was already a separate entity, the banking union and its unique supervisory and resolution mechanisms have made it dependent on the bodies of the European Union, meaning that it is in those bodies that decide the resolution processes of the Portuguese banks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP has always disagreed with the possibility of deposits paying the losses resulting from the mismanagement of the bank, since depositors have no responsibility for the mismanagement that is made of their savings. The proposed law submitted by the Government places the credits in a hierarchy above a set of debt instruments, but it does not stop putting the deposit hypothesis to be called to participate in the implementation of the resolution measures. As such, regardless of the position in which deposits enter, we do not agree with the mechanism itself, since depositors will continue to pay bankrupt banks, they will not stay with them and very difficult to recover their losses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is required is to find solutions for the bank to stop being subject to harmful private management, a management that aims at quick profit and does not take account of the national interest. The CFP understands that such a solution necessarily passes through the public control of the bank and that is the way we should be going now. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u67	Mrs Inês Domingos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The trust of families in the resilience of the financial system is crucial for the proper functioning of the economy. During the financial crisis, the European Union developed instruments to strengthen this confidence by forcing the financial sector to strengthen its own capital and create financial instruments capable of absorbing losses, also ensuring greater deposit security to avoid running situations to banks. It seems to us that these have been very positive developments. The Directive proposed by the Government today to clarify some of these rules by ensuring in particular that bank deposits have a credible privilege beyond what is guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Mutual Agricultural Credit Guarantee Fund and by extending the eligible instruments as financial instruments to absorb losses. These measures are positive, but in our view they are still insufficient to deal with a financial emergency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Our concern is, in particular, the guarantee of European deposits. A guarantee of deposits at European level is, in our view, a key piece that is missing to complete banking union and reform economic and monetary union. Without guarantee of common deposits, financial markets will remain fragmented and it is not possible to guarantee all citizens of the European Union the same level of confidence in the financial sector in the event of shocks. This situation, in the PSD's view, is regrettable, even because the remaining parts of the banking union have already been implemented, which means that the resolution decision of some financial institutions may no longer be in the hands of the Member States, in particular Portugal, but the consequences of the resolution will remain in the Member States. Unfortunately, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, despite all the propaganda of the President of the Eurogroup, our Minister for Finance too, the fact is that this fundamental reform has been postponed, has been pushed back with the belly in the last Council. The PSD is therefore in favour of this transposition initiative, but it calls on the Government to be much more active in defending a common deposit guarantee mechanism for the whole of the European Union, which is crucial and indispensable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u69	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Caldeira Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since this is my first speech as a Member in Parliament, I would like to thank all Members and Members, as well as the Government here present, and to say that this opportunity is a great privilege. Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 4. the, submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, is of enormous importance and responds to the loss of confidence that occurred during the crisis, with a financial system that gave rise to too many episodes, not only in Portugal but throughout Europe. The European directives should therefore be adapted to the national legal system insofar as they respond to a concern not only in Portuguese but throughout the European Union. This bill accords greater protection and security to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency or resolution simultaneously, and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 of 12 December on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy, thus seeking to give greater protection to deposits in relation to other claims, such as obligations. The main objective of the Government's proposal is to strengthen the relationship of trust between credit institutions and their depositors, thereby minimizing systemic risk and thus increasing confidence in the system. In the current scheme, in the case of insolvency or settlement of a bank, deposits covered by deposit guarantee funds up to €100,000 and deposits of natural persons and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the part exceeding €100,000 are given priority. This order of priorities for creditors is maintained, but it is proposed that they be followed by other deposits, such as those of other legal persons, state institutions and other companies, in part exceeding EUR 100 000. In the case of debt instruments, the Directive is transposed which enables national credit institutions to comply with MREL (minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities) by issuing cheaper and more interesting debt instruments. I would like to point out that this proposal strengthens the rights of depositors and confidence in banks and thereby strengthens the resilience of the Portuguese financial and banking system, giving citizens and depositors more confidence and thus improving the current situation. This proposal may not respond to all the wishes or wishes we might have, but it does indeed respond at national level to an important concern and improvement that is being implemented at European level. For this reason, it deserves all the support of the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u71	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill has two objectives. On the one hand, it intends to establish a credit privilege for deposits in the face of other claims, including senior debt, i.e. to ensure that deposits are the last to be called, in the event of bankruptcy and bank resolution. On the other hand, it creates a new debt instrument, which is placed between senior debt and subordinate debt, generating an additional layer that can be called in case of resolution, losing its capital and recapitalizing the institution. I leave some notes on this proposal. Firstly, we understand that it is a good principle that deposits are protected, because there is a difference between those who choose a deposit that is virtually unpaid today and those who acquire a debt instrument where higher remuneration is equivalent to the higher risk they are taking. Therefore, it is a good principle for deposits to be protected, it is a principle of stability, and it is a good principle for public institutions to be protected, especially social security, in case of resolution. Secondly, we do not oppose the issue of new debt instruments in principle, but, given the recent past of our country, all care is necessary for people to know that debt product is not protected and will be absorbed in the case of bank resolution. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be mistaken about this proposal and its merit: all these amendments and all these solutions are palliative and have very little effectiveness, if they have any. The fact is that any bankruptcy of banks always has public costs, and this is an inundable contradiction: until bankruptcy, the bank is private, it is managed by bankers, who keep their profits and manage the bank at their bel-plesure, according to their interests; when the bank goes bankrupt, the losses become public. This is an inundable contradiction, except with the public property of the bank. The fact, too, is that no bank has ever been settled without costs for the State, much less in Portugal, where we still pay the account of all banks that have been settled. Moreover, in Portugal, there is the sad case of being the State to pay, but it is the European institutions to decide how the resolution is done and how much the hole will be paid by the State, in that case. Banking union is a fiasco! There will be no mechanism for the mutualisation of debt and no mechanism for securing deposits at European level and those who are waiting for this mechanism and the will of Germany to have this mechanism are protecting the country. It is an irresponsible attitude towards the country in the future. I would just like to remind you that, under the current rules, it is the European institutions that decide how the resolution is done, who pays the resolution, how the resolution is paid, and who always pays the taxpayers. This is a loss of sovereignty that the Left Block cannot accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u73	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is what it is, a simple transposition of a European directive on a micromaterial with regard to the reality of the financial sector and the impact of the resolution on some deposits, in this case. Because of this being a micromaterial it has allowed much more generic interventions on everything that has to do with the financial sector. The CDS has had clear positions on this matter, criticizing the European Union for, at a time when it should do so - not being giving due attention to future situations that may be similar to those we have lived in the last 10 years. What has happened in the financial sector over the past 10 years has been in situations for which States were not prepared. State supervision was not prepared and, at European level, both supervision and banking union did not even have mechanisms and, very timidly, Europe has responded to these problems. This is one of the timid answers, but it is not a wrong answer and therefore we must stick to what is at stake. Does this directive, transposed by this bill, solve the problems of insufficient banking union? It doesn't work out. Can this directive, transposed by this proposal for a law, in itself, guarantee the necessary confidence of citizens in the financial sector? He can't either. This directive, transposed by this bill, does not in any way make any contribution to the reversal of the problem that we have had in the last 10 years, and that we still have, because the State budget, which was approved here by the left, continues to pay for these holes from the private banks, and it is extraordinary that the PCP and the Left Block here come to complain about what they approved less than a month ago. Don't stop being ironic. Therefore, this bill, which transposes a directive, allows a very simple thing: a credit privilege for deposits in insolvency or bank resolution. Is that bad for citizens' confidence in the banking sector? Is that bad for citizens who deposit their savings in a financial institution? from our point of view, it's not bad either. Therefore, not being bad for citizens' confidence in the financial sector and not being bad for ensuring the protection of citizens' savings, of course we must stick to what is at stake and realize that, little by little, it is not indifferent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u75	The Bureau no longer registers for interventions in this debate, and Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor to make the closing statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Manuel Caldeira Cabral on his first speech as a Member. With regard to the issue that brings us here, it is obviously not surprising to say that the way we view the role and management of the banking sector is not the same as the proposal or vision advocated by the Communist Party and the Left Block. We believe that what has been done at European and also at national level in order to strengthen the banking and financial stability sector, and much, so that, in a future crisis, the impact on people and on the state is very different from what has happened in the past. And that is the principle of what the resolution is, namely, that there is a greater participation of bank and private debt holders in the costs that may result from management that is not the most appropriate. At European level, however, we also have much more intrusive supervision, which in future will not allow the mistakes of the past to be made. So, in this perspective, we don't have the same vision. I respect yours, but the one we have is different. at European level, a very significant effort has been made and the Portuguese Government has from the outset defended the European deposit guarantee mechanism and the single resolution fund support mechanism. These mechanisms, in the position that the Government has defended, have a share of liquidity management, but also have a share of mutualisation. But to move forward in this direction there must be a European consensus, because this is how Europe is built, that is, through consensus. And at the level of the deposit guarantee mechanism, this consensus is something that is under construction. We hope, in the first half of next year, that we can come to an understanding of how we can move forward, so that all countries can support it. Portugal's vision is not exactly the overview of other countries, but it is a vision that is common to a very significant set of countries. We need to continue the discussion, we need to find the mechanisms and we need to conclude and define a road map for the implementation of a European deposit guarantee mechanism. The proposal we bring here goes beyond the transposition of the Directive. The transposition of the Directive creates the new asset class, the senior preferred debt, but what we are doing at the deposit level, including and giving greater protection to all deposits, is something that goes beyond the Directive and is an option that the Portuguese Government has decided to take in order to make clear that deposits are a very different product from what other debt products are. It is therefore very important to make it clear that the remuneration of the deposit must be adequate to its level of risk and should, in fact, be different from a debt product, even a senior debt product, for the possibility of being called upon in the event of the need to absorb losses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u77	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u78	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. This is a proposal that strengthens financial stability, which brings greater clarity and ultimately contributes to greater confidence of depositors in the Portuguese banking system. Term, formulating votes for a good 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u79	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The Bureau also made vows to Mr. Secretary of State. The next item is the Proposal for a Law No 124 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1975 and 1980. Having not given time for debate, it will be voted on in due course. We have moved on to the general discussion of the Bill No 161 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system. To begin this debate, I have the floor of Mrs. Secretary of State for Justice, Annabella Pedroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is presenting today the draft diploma that aims to keep the cadastral information system simplified and to generalize its application to the rest of the country. in a brief context, on 28 October, the Government presented to this House what it committed to Law No. 78 / 2017, by delivering the final report on the pilot project of the simplified cadastral information system, implemented in 10 municipalities. I also recall the objective of the pilot project: to increase the knowledge of the territory of its owners and property limits in order to better protect them and contribute to the strengthening of the spatial planning, without loss of security and reliability. The challenge was to do so more quickly and less investment. Thus, the project, which started in November 2017, had as its premises: to base on a declarative basis, encouraging owners to identify and register their properties; to include as an incentive to process freeness; to simplify procedures and use innovative tools for the identification of the property; to reuse all existing information in the most varied databases, the four of them critical – the Tax Authority, the Registry and the Notariado, the Directorate-General of the Territory and the Partner ; to create a collaborative and technical and organizational interoperability model, including more than 14 entities involved in the central and local administration. But for the success of the project it was essential to promote it among the populations, so a awareness-raising work was carried out in the territory, involving all local entities. In technological terms, the whole process was based on interoperability, which allowed the use of data dispersed by sources of information with different characteristics and thus it was possible to develop an algorithm capable of identifying new properties, deducting and estimating locations. No less important was the monitoring of the project with the provision of information which, in real time, allowed to follow what was happening on the ground and respond quickly to any difficulty. Thus, on October 28, 2018, 10 months later, the quantitative objectives of the pilot project were met, with the absolutely enthusiastic involvement—I repeat, with an absolutely enthusiastic involvement—and close to the 10 municipalities and their presidents. We are thus a model in which we have 100 % of the location of the territory of the 768 000 matrices existing in a total area of about 240 000 ha and the georeferenced mapping of 50, 28 % of the territory concerned. The results were, in fact, very positive and in such a way that, with the present proposal for the law, it is intended to: firstly, to maintain in force the regime established by Law No 78 78 / 2017 and to extend to all the national territory the simplified cadatral information system; secondly, to strengthen the universalization of the Single Balance of the Building of the Building (BUPi ) as a national register and register platform for the whole territory, covering, in this case, rustic, urban, urban and mixed, mixed and mixed buildings throughout the national territory; thirdly, to create a special procedure for justifying the rostic and mixed omised buildings; secondly, to strengthen the universalization of the Single Bank of the Predifica (BUPi ) as a national registration and registration platform for the whole territory of the whole territory of the whole territory of the territory of the law; secondly, it is intended to strengthen the universal cooperation agreements by a central coordinating central coordinating unit; secondly, it is intended to implement the arrangements for cooperation agreements with local authorities, to ensure that within the minimum procedure and to ensure that within the minimum procedure, with the minimum speed, provided by 50 50, provided by the date, provided by the date of the date of the date of the date of the date, from four years, from the date, the last four years, the last year, the date, the last year, the date, the last year, the last year, the last year, the date, the date, the last year, the date, the date, the last year, the last year, the date, the last year, the last year, the four years, the date, the last year, the date, the last year, the last year, the date, the date, the last year, the last year, the last year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the date, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the date, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, That is the case, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this pilot project has shown that this is the way, that it is possible to know the territory with speed and that it is possible to know even more about the territory with less investment and, finally, that it is possible to know the territory while maintaining rigor and legal certainty. For this reason, it is an innovative and continuous improvement project and for which we want to meet all the conditions to expand to the other municipalities with rustic property. It is a challenge maintained and moved by the certainty that it is possible to move beyond the known limits. In short, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the content of this proposal is this and therefore the Government calls for a consensus, through its approval, expressing full willingness to welcome the contributions which the various banks consider necessary for this project to be effectively extended to the entire national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u81	I now give the floor to Mr Santinho Pacheco of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I come to talk to you about the end of a myth. For decades, we have all heard doubt the practical possibility of registering rural property in Portugal and the uncomplicated costs that an operation of these would entail. A pilot project, developed in 10 Portuguese municipalities, and which proved to be a successful case, showed that it is possible after all. It was unanimous the assessment of these chambers on the added value of the pilot project and the demonstration of willingness to continue with this absolutely decisive experience so that the vast territories of our country no longer be abandoned spaces and are formed in areas of agricultural and forestry production and ordering. The Government, paying attention to these signs from the municipalities that adhere to the pilot project, now presents a bill that maintains and generalizes the simplified cadastral information system created by Law No. 78 / 2017 of 17 August, also promoting the universalization of the single balcony of the building as a national registration platform and registration of the territory, where all information of cadastral relevance held by the public authorities is harmonized. The bill points to a set of master lines of action, of which we highlight: the georeferenced graphic representation procedure that is applicable to all rustic and mixed buildings in all municipalities that do not have registration of the existing rustic property or building register; the special procedure of registration of the rustic and mixed building omitted throughout the national territory, being created a special justification procedure. The Single Balcony becomes a national registration and registration platform of the territory and harmonises the information of urban, rustic and mixed buildings throughout the country. This whole organisation system develops at two levels: the central, through a technical coordination centre integrated in the Ministry of Justice; and the municipal, through local competence units, a genuine network of public service balconies, identification, treatment and sharing of information concerning the territory, limits and holders. The role of the authorities and the authorities is absolutely crucial for this real revolution in the management of the territory to be the success that citizens have long claimed. We are before a law that is valid for you and, therefore, let us not let small details of the operation and financing of the participation of municipalities in local competence units question the full merit of this legislative initiative. If, to all this, which is a lot, let us add that there is an exceptional system of tax and emoluments free of charge, during which owners, without penalties, and free of charge, can proceed to the collection and communication of simplified cadastral information and that all this procedure is applicable to buckets, it is clear that we are before a law that is friendly to the territory and absolutely decisive to a policy of forest rest which does not leave anyone outside. If we are attentive to the positions of the various parliamentary benches throughout this legislature, we will see that the problem of the lack of registration always addresses the justified causes of the state to which the Portuguese forest arrived. It's in our hands to change this paradigm from time to time. That is what the Portuguese, the rural world and the country demand of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u83	Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents itself in this debate with the usual stance, which is that the national and Portuguese interests must always be first and foremost. in this regard, the PSD maintains the position it had about a year and a half ago, when discussing and voting initiatives relating to the forest package, in particular in the implementation of the current cadastral information system. Our attitude is based on a serious, constructive and available basis to find essential convergences in ordering our territory so essential to a orderly and sustained development of Portugal. Yes, for us, PSD, the forest sector is essential factor of territorial cohesion. The many aspects, economic, social and environmental, make forest the basis of a sector with odd opportunities that we must protect, care and explore through sustainable economic systems. The forest sector has this almost unique feature: our actions today have a long-term impact, so everything must be weighed and taken care of. Unfortunately, the government in this area has been hostage to political commitments that destroy part of the country's productive potential and condemn it to wrong, irrational and demagogic options. It has, in fact, walked contrary to the desirable: increasing the forest area, punishing us in the long and long term. Therefore, the PSD has denounced, since the first hour, these erroneous options of transferring, through a quota system, forest production from the interior to the coast, which will constitute one of the most penalizing measures for territorial asymmetry. It also has doubts about the goals set in future plans on the total forest area. Because with this policy the area will continue to decline and will not increase as desired. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this regard the PSD, together with the CDS, presented a draft law to implement the national simplified cadastral information system, having, in committee, listened to the most relevant players in the area which generally reverted to the proposal we presented and which consisted of the principle that each building, each land, would correspond to a single information incorporating the various systems: register, register and matrix. This was a proposal based on gradualism and progressiveity, moving from systematic registration to simple registration, i.e. a register whose focus is on the building, on the ground. On the other hand, all public administration services would have to place on the computer platform the information they have about a particular building or land. A voluntary register, except in some cases: where the buildings were covered by detailed plans, when they were covered by licensed urban operations, when they were benefited by Community funds, when they were in the situation of expropriation, parceling or fractionation or when they were included in the land bank. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the left rejected these proposals in the first place, without a serious weighting or analysis that they demanded. In fact, they have limited themselves to using that approach which has characterized them so much: to chum everything that is not proposed by the « management ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u86	We are also supported by the Government, which, unfortunately, has already brought us to an end, after the PSD and CDS project, has put forward a proposal which has rightly called the "adastral information system" applicable in 10 municipalities in the country, and which, in Latino sensu, is the one we are discussing today. With this proposal, we have seen the Government announce that it would solve the problem of the lack of registration that still affects part of our territory, unfortunately. It's just that, as we've been getting used to, after all, the registration was no longer a good one. The custom — great announcements, small achievements. As the President of the PSD says very well, they are not lies, they are lies before. After all, it was only a cadastral information system based on the georeference of the property. Registration wasn't because registration isn't this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u87	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite everything and this disagreement about the simplified cadastral information system, which we are discussing today, the PSD naturally accompanies the objective and scope of the initiative, insofar as we have already defended it in our own project also rejected by management. Knowledge of the limits of ownership is undoubtedly essential for the proper implementation of political measures directed towards the territories and their cohesion. The PSD defends, as it is known, the extension of registration to the rest of the country. However, the virtuality of the extension of the cadastral information system to the rest of the territory lies in the same failures of the past: the simplicity of the georeferenced graphical representation of the rustic buildings prevents the obtaining of a true rustic record, based on various geophysical parameters, as, moreover, referred to our proposal. We shall ask ourselves, then, Mr President. PS Members with fun air: if this government proposal is not the best for the country, why did the PSD not vote against it when it was approved a year and a half ago? Very simple: because, for us, although we know that it is not a register, it is not the register that the country needs, it is always what is called « evil, at least». That's not all. It is the choice between nothing and the little one, because when management finally gave way to the project of creating the national simplified registration system, the PSD clearly realized that this government did not want and would not register what Portugal needed. Now, for us, what is always first is the country, why between nothing and the little one guess what we choose: the little one, because it is always the least bad. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the fundamental issues that concern us, others raise many doubts, such as the deadlines laid down in the law. First, the provision in the Single Balcony of the Building of information on the cadastral elements is only foreseen until 31 December 2022, as is the case with the free flow of the emolumentary records. In view of these deadlines, Madam Secretary of State, would you not be advised to extend the fee until the project was finished? Finally, will we continue to have the municipalities saying that they have migales at the expense of this whole regime? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u88	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: A country must be known as an essential condition for solutions to its problems. The serious events of previous years, the devastating forest fires, have brought to light the enormous ignorance of the rural territories, of the forest and, in particular, of our land ownership. Lack of knowledge has always served as a justification for nothing being done about the forest, for the Public Administration to turn its backs on public intervention in the forest for decades, which has led to the disaster. After all, it didn't take hundreds of millions of euros to lift the register; after all, it didn't take immense decades for us to know our territory better. One of the recommendations of the recent report of the Independent Technical Observatory for Forests and Forest Fires refers to the need to find ways to resolve the major constraints associated with private forest property and the abandonment of forests. Any planning exercise will always be difficult to apply if there is no response from landowners. Therefore, any solution to this problem should always go first by the full knowledge of landowners and, while it is recognized that much can be done for the registration of properties, it is considered that the existence of a rigorous and up-to-date register is a tool for managing and supporting the decision that the country has long lacked and that it needs to be implemented. But the registration, which is so important, is not by itself a solution, is an important instrument, without any doubt, but that requires other solutions. Indeed, it is necessary for the Government, the country, to take into account the absolute need for increased forest management units. It is necessary to gain a scale so that planning instruments can be effective. We need aggregate management of small forest property. National and Community financial support must be mobilised to ensure that forest management units gain short-term economic advantage, in particular with the remuneration of services provided to society and the environment as a way to achieve the conversion of eucalyptus monoculture into a model for forest that withstands fire risk and is more adapted to climate change. We want to express four concerns about the proposal that the Government brings here. First of all, small producers, in order to carry out the cadastral lifting, cannot be charged and obliged to bear costs that could only lead to more abandonment of the forest and rural territories; they cannot be pressured to leave their land. Secondly, the concrete support to the authorities, to the forest associations, to all those who operate in the forest, in order to favour the intervention of small agriculture, must be well defined and, from our point of view, are not yet clear. Third, the property without known owner must be managed by the forest management units or a public land bank; it cannot serve the private concentration of the property. Fourthly, it is necessary to strengthen staff in the conservatories of the Institute of Registers and the Notariado. We can't go back to the times when any record took so long. If we move forward with the enlargement of the register to the whole continent without strengthening staff and without renewing the technical framework of the Institute of Registers and the Notary, we are at risk of creating a blockage throughout the process. It is that moving forward with the project to the country, which is important, without human resources, therefore without opening external competitions for the renewal of staff, will be painful for workers, for the Institute and, above all, for citizens, for businesses and for the public service in general, who want to contribute to the knowledge of the territory. We cannot turn a positive measure, which is good, that is, the cadastral lifting, into a new constraint.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u91	From the beginning, the Left Block contributed to this process by making political and technical contributions, without any new constraints or costs to small owners. We want this process to advance without these measures being used for a new process of private concentration of property. These are the fundamental measures to ensure that the cadastral survey proposed by the Government is carried out properly and that it can contribute to the public interest and to a more healthy forest and better adapted to the concrete conditions of climate change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u92	For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today there is no doubt as to the need for a rustic register as a fundamental element for real knowledge of the property and adequate management of the forest in Portugal. If there is no doubt about the importance of the registration, the CFP also has no doubt that many have been the indecisions about its progress. These indecisions are due to the lack of political determination of successive governments and, above all, to the lack of investment. The realization of the rustic register in Portugal is as necessary as possible and will be an important element for stimulating national production. However, what we need is a register that takes place, that leaves the project pilot phase and that becomes a reality throughout the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, in the pilot projects already under way, but still with few known data—in fact, we only know the report that has half a dozen pages, i.e., has 200 pages of methodologies, attachments, photographs, etc. , so we need much more detailed and detailed information - we can find some concerns. The idea was created that the problem of cleaning the forest is due to the fact that lands have no known owner. In this sense, the government threatens to hand over these lands to a forest management company. For PCP, in practice, what you are looking for is an attack on small property. And this report, as well as the bill, do not give an effective answer to this concern. When the government places as a central element in the completion of the register the existence of a declaration by the owners, we cannot accept that, when this declaration is not made, the land is considered to be without ownership. This is, in fact, a concern that we have and that needs to be clarified. As for the buckets, they're not here called. They have their own law that has recently been approved, so you will not now try to alter it. With this proposal, there is another concern that has to do with the same problem that has always been put: where does the money come from for the registration? Why didn't the government in the State Budget caution the money needed to carry out this register? Does the government want the authorities to bear more of this cost to carry out the registration? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP considers that instruments and laws are not lacking. In fact, they have not failed; what is lacking are means. And it is in this sense that the CFP proposes that a serious evaluation of the pilot projects of the cadastral information system being carried out urgently be carried out. We cannot forget that Portugal is only one, but that in Portugal there are many « Portuguese ». We need to find different answers to very different realities. There will really be land without owners. We don't doubt it. Moreover, the little we know and the report that we have already talked about, as we get to know the data, and having by reference what is known of the pilot project carried out in the municipality of Caminha — it was the one that came further and that managed to cover almost 100 % more area — no land was found without owners. It is appropriate to say that « these are more voices than nuts». We need a register that serves the country. in this sense, the PCP assumes that, in the field of specialty, it will intervene with its contributions and, at that time, it will have to be made the balance sheet of pilot projects, listening to the entities that have intervened in this matter. It is very important that the entities involved should be taken into account. To this end, the Government must provide the Assembly of the Republic with the elements, the parish, the register, the difficulties encountered and the results obtained. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government proposes that the simplified cadastral information system be extended, which lasted for one year as a pilot project in only 10 municipalities, throughout the country. It considers it an innovative project not only because it integrates new technologies and relies on the interoperability of information existing in the Public Administration, but also because it has a declarative basis, it is free and simplified, which we cannot fail to note — contrast with the complexity of the evaluation report, which has more than 140 pages. The CDS records the effectiveness of the project and its ability to know more territory in less time and at less cost. We therefore see the whole advantage of extending this simplified cadastral information system, which is not a real registry, to the whole country and we will make this bill as possible the pilot project. The CDS has always said that technological evolution and work already developed, particularly in the agricultural parcel, which has a coverage of almost all the country, represented a significant change in the paradigm of the rustic register in Portugal. The diversity of results achieved in terms of area known in the various municipalities covered by the pilot project has proven what we defend: we should switch to a simple and gradual registration system. But, Madam Secretary of State, this initiative, we consider, is two years late. Much could already be done throughout the country if the bill aimed at the creation of the national cadastral information system, which was presented by the PSD and the CDS in 2016 and which was the target of wide-ranging auscultation of numerous entities, in a serious and complete work in this Parliament, had not been rejected by the united left. The reading of this bill raises, however, some doubts that we would like to have been clarified by the government so that they could then be taken into account in the specialty process. We have doubts about the role of municipalities, which is a principle with which we agree. The bill co-responsibilizes municipalities, providing for local units of competence, but refers the regulation to portaria and is completely omitted from funding. It is planned to transfer this competence to the framework law of decentralization, but the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) refers, in the view that it has been delivered to us, which is not consensualized—i.e., ANMP does not seem to know this sectorial diploma—and that this system requires qualified material and human resources. This issue is particularly relevant because in the pilot project report it is reported that municipalities could not give a faster response precisely because of lack of means. We also have doubts about freedom. At the time of the adoption of this diploma in the Council of Ministers in October this year, the Deputy Minister said that anyone who would use the simplified registration would be exempted from IMI for 10 years. But we don't see that reflected in the proposal. Is it planned for a different degree? As far as funding is concerned, we also have doubts. The evaluation report itself recognises that results can only be achieved with extra, private and public funding, including the Permanent Forestry Fund and the Environmental Fund. If for these 10 municipalities were needed €550 000, how much will it be necessary for the rest of the country, which are 290 municipalities? The report recognises the important role of forest producer organisations—for their knowledge of the land and owners—but also recognises that it was not possible to find a business model to finance access to information. And this needs to be guarded. The CDS also has doubts about the dissemination, particularly in the diaspora, taking into account, of course, the weight that the immigrant community has in the north and center of our country. The report notes how positive the fact that remote access allowed diaspora to start the identification process. But I ask: what has been done to disseminate, in this same diaspora, the existence of this regime? How many processes, buildings or citizens of the diaspora have been effectively identified? Finally, we have doubts about the buildings that have been omitted or have no known owner. What happens to them and at the end of how long? What has been done to ensure as much disclosure as possible so that there will not be people losing their heritage out of ignorance? The law that put the pilot project into effect revoked the law that recognized the situation of rustic building without known owner. However, the proposed law under discussion does not provide for recognition of buildings without known owners, which is provided for a sectoral decree-law. When will this decree be published? In the past, the State had to be proactive in the stock market, which the previous government created and which had therefore not been phased out, had to look for the building and advertise it. Now, the burden lies with the owner, who, if he does not promote the identification of the building within 180 days, is presumed to have no known owner. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this is a government that has as priority the value of the territory: it values the territory by promoting territorial cohesion, but transfers funds from Portugal 2020 from the inland to the coast; it values the territory by environmental sustainability, but does not have a known strategy of adaptation to climate change, in particular for the problem of water and, in this respect, puts the head in the sand like ostrich and defends that we simply use water to be more efficient; it values the territory by agricultural and forestry activity, but has more than 20,000 projects of the RDP (Rural Development Programme) suspended waiting for analysis or money to be approved, many of them also forestes; it values the territory by transforming the interior into areas of development and establishment of populations, but does not have a measure to support birth or adopt a fiscal status for the interior. In short, question: is registration an essential tool? Yes, yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many decades of delay. But it will not be only with the registration that we will achieve a true appreciation of the territory. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Greens have taken the issue of forest and forestry as a priority, not only in this Parliament. We have presented a number of initiatives, various concerns and proposals on this subject and one of the dimensions, for those who are concerned about forestry planning, is exactly the issue of planning. The question you necessarily have to ask is the following: how can you plan a forest without knowing exactly what we have? from there the importance of the forest register. We are — it is important to underline this — facing a global challenge that is being put, with concrete consequences that we all have already realized, which is the subject of climate change. In the process of adapting to this phenomenon, we must have an urgent and serious intervention on the forest, in order to create greater resistance. The Greens have brought here several dimensions of this need to create greater resistance to the forest. We do not, in fact, neglect this component of the register, which is precisely in the sense of knowing what we have in order to be able to plan and intervene on the central objective, which is precisely that of forestry, taking into account these challenges. Therefore, the register allows us to understand how the forest is designed to also understand how we want it to be designed to encourage, for example, parceling, among so many other issues. The question is: if this is so important, why isn't the water load done? If it's not done, it's not because it's impossible to do it, we all recognize that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u99	This is because, in fact, there has been a notorious lack of political will on the part of successive governments for this registration to be effectively realized. It is essential that conditions be created for this registration to be made and that we must, in particular, move on to the proposed law that the Government submits. The Greens believe that this proposal has important principles, but that it also has weaknesses, that must be discussed and that we must try to counteract it in the field of expertise. Just one of the weaknesses that arises is the government's notorious attempt to make this registration at the lowest cost, i.e., in an unrealistic way with regard to its financing and the investment needed to go to the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u101	In order to make a real registration and serve the interests that we want, we must be on the ground knowing what we have. What do the Greens want to say about this? What we need to do with the necessary rigour, because we also need to know what kind of register we want. There is another issue that needs to be taken into account: the forest register is not anything static, it is not something that is done in a year and that is done; it is a completely changeable reality, and at a very fast pace. Therefore, we must ensure that this update is being made permanently. There is therefore a set of dimensions that deserve an intense and serious discussion in the field of expertise. Madam President, this is what we would like to highlight with regard to the bill that the Government brings to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u103	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: I would begin by welcoming the Government first of all for this important legislative initiative. For us, this initiative, which we had already hoped for, is a political and programmatic imperative that has a delay of decades, but which, fortunately, is being reversed with the invaluable contribution of the government and all the entities involved. I would also like to welcome the pilot project of the 10 municipalities, which clearly demonstrated to be a value and good practice. First, we focused all attention on the most wooded municipalities, which needed to have the simplified registration and a project of this nature, and then, prudently, serene, sustained, we moved on to the expansion of the national whole. The truth is that the pilot project allowed 100 % of the territory of the municipality of Caminha and about 96 % of the rustic matrices of Penela. Therefore, it is obviously a success achieved in this regard. In such a way that both the President of the Municipal Chamber of Penela and the President of the Municipal Chamber of Caminha and all the acceding municipalities hinder the results that have been achieved, and that have been very positive. The population also joined in a massive and growing way, through requests for registration in this regard. The President of the City of Caminha says that we must continue to prevent, rather than be content with the fight against fires. If we know our territory better and if we know who its owners are, we will be able to bring together energies and propose extended plans for the empowerment of the territory. In turn, the President of the Municipal Chamber of Palmela even says that it is due to a particular recognition to the Government, since this project has allowed the final preparation of the registration as a priority. There is therefore an involvement of the acceding municipalities and, above all, positive results for the population. The truth is that the simplified cadastral information system is indispensable and pressing for the management of the territory. We know this, as we know that only in a more efficient, simple and timely way for citizens, can we actually achieve what we have been anxious for decades now: characterization and identification of buildings, which is essential if we want to have sustainable public policy management, especially on the ground, in the planning of the territory and in urbanism. We are facing a system that is considered as vital for the sustainable development of public policies in various areas. The government, and quite well, has taken that priority since the first hour. It is not a process that can be done gallopingly, but it was a process that did indeed make a sustained path—first with the pilot project and now with this unthinkable will to extend to the rest of the country. at the same time, the authorities also know this need and have been involved since the first hour. In fact, it is a very old claim of the Portuguese municipalities, which gave a positive opinion on the bill that gave rise to the 2017 law and which has been following this process. The authorities are indispensable for local competence units and service counters. Without these processes and this path could not be made. Citizens, in turn, appreciate the simplification and effective articulation made with the Public Administration. In addition, the single counter and the platform articulated with the Tax Authority and with the Institute of Registers and Notariado is essential. This is how the Public Administration needs to function more and more on the platform, articulating itself to respond more effectively to citizens and their needs. Indeed, administrative modernization, innovation, digital, georeference cannot go beyond this type of process and initiatives. Therefore, the results were very stimulating and they all benefit. All, on the right and on the left, have recognized that this bill is worthy and timely, it is a plus-value, being true that, in the specialty, we will have the opportunity to clean up and debug some weaknesses and some aspects that we can make more robust. In fact, the proposed law contributes to greater and better knowledge of the territory, to security in legal trade, to more information on the limits and properties of the buildings and to greater harmonisation of information at the level of the various entities. For this reason, this is a good bill, a good legislative impetus, because, as I said initially, it fulfils a programmatic objective, it also fulfils the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, which, in its revised version, entered the register and the single counter as priorities, and still complies with the directives and recommendations of the independent committee and the observatory. We are therefore on the right path and on the right path in order to solve the problems of the populations, especially by preventing fires, by making the terrain known, being more effective and, above all, by resolving all the issues that this simplified registration has solved. This process lasted for decades and this government, in about three years, put on the ground a pilot project and is available to extend it to all national, leveraged in an excellent report, with enabling and substantive information, which brought it to the competent committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u104	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u105	With substantive elements and with the pilot project, we have the conditions to make Portugal move forward in this area, a better Portugal with a simplified registration! [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u106	Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Listening to the parties, it is clear that for the PSD — and it has already been said in my first speech — the registration is fundamental. We have some regrets to make. First of all, it is important to say that we are not talking about registration, we are talking about, yes, about cadastral information, that is, georeference of the property. What leads to this situation? To which we again have two countries: the country with registration, which, in this proposal, remains so, and very well, because we fight for the existence of effective registration; and a country that continues without registration. This proposal is intended to continue and to continue. In addition, it brings other concerns to us, including expenditure on registration — aid to small owners, with the costs of this geo-reference, the fact that municipalities are the major players who have been called, in this pilot project at least, to register, or rather, this geo-reference called register. Moreover, at the last meeting of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the municipalities were very clear when they said « the government has given us migalhas », in what Mr. Minister of Agriculture said here in this Parliament : « Yes, we have given something», almost as if it were a favour of the permanent forest package. It is therefore important to say that all the burden falls on the presidents of the chamber, on the municipal chambers, on the municipalities, on the associations of the most depressed territories of this country, because those who do not have register are the most depressed territories, is the most fractionated property of the poorest owners of the country. These are the issues we need to consider! Here we spoke of the exemption from emoluments until 2022. But the exemption from emoluments is very much less than the expenditure with this simplified information — it is only a very small part. The lack of specialized staff for this process to be carried out by 2022 — we will have this deadline as a good one — is a great concern. The services of the means necessary to implement what the government itself puts deadlines are not provided. It's important that this be said! Expectives are created, but conditions are not created. The burden always falls on them; let us say that the government wants the praise and the work is for the others. Despite all these concerns, there is a resistance to hope, which is the fact that we are asking for this diploma to be brought down to committee without a vote. Perhaps this is an opportunity for at least once to see the government and the parties that support it try to make a serious, simplified registration, with the new technological means available, and to take account of the needs of the authorities, associations and owners, so that these territories no longer become a second Portugal and become a first Portugal. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u108	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the registration will be a decisive element that will, of course, contribute to the dramatic issue of fires being combated through the reorganization and planning of our forest. We cannot defuse the record of the importance it has for national production, so that we can, through an incentive to agriculture, tackle our country's pressing needs, in particular what has to do with national sovereignty. Mrs Emília Cerqueira said that this diploma only responds to georeference. I do not know whether the honourable Member has read the whole proposal in particular, but it does not respond solely to georeference, it will walk to what is the geometric register. The concern is that we can actually get a register that defines and delineates all properties so that they are all known and that we can have an effective record. That is what we are very concerned about, given that it requires the State to allocate its own resources and investments. We welcome and praise the issue of the exemption of costs for all owners who, on their own initiative, seek to register their property. This will, of course, be of the greatest importance in the face of the needs that people have, so we cannot fail to mention again the question of expenditure in this process. In fact, what the government has told us and what we know is that 2 million euros have already been invested and spent only 10 municipalities and only 50 % of the work has been done. In fact, what has been known so far from the pilot projects is that only 50 % is known and, 50 %, in 10 municipalities, EUR 2 million has been spent. The question that we have to ask is this: with more than 150 municipalities to work, and to reach 100 %, how much will we need and how will this investment be made? It is that « without eggs there are no omelettes». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u110	You have the floor, for an intervention, in the remaining time, Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u111	Madam President, I want to say that we are actually talking about a simplified cadastral survey. It seems to us that the urgency to intervene in the forest, the urgency of concrete changes in the forest, justifies a simplified procedure, because what matters is the capacity that the State and all those who intervene in the forest can have, in the sense that the forestry planning and planning procedures can be carried out and, in particular, that the regional planning plans for the forest can be poured into municipal management plans, so that they can force public and private entities on these guidelines of the regional forest planning plans. What the right here says again is that, in fact, there can be no measure concerning the forest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u112	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u113	...because we don't have the xpto record that the right always wanted...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u114	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u115	...and that has always prevented us from intervening in the forest!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u116	He's looking bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u117	We need to intervene in the forest, the state must have information and, in this sense, it is necessary to move forward...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u118	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u119	... for quick, simple procedures, so that the identification of the property is done, of our entire property system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u120	In order to conclude the debate, she has the floor again for an intervention by the Secretary of State for Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your contributions. Allow me, in a very synthetic way, to answer the whole question in three points. First of all, after all, what do we have? Is the simplified cadastral information or is it not a register? It is not a direct registration, but it is complementary to the constitution of the registration. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, it is important to say that the simplified cadastral information is complementary to the constitution of the register. What it means is that what we are doing is taking advantage of the opportunity, which already exists today, in the context of the declaration component of the registration, and saying: « Also make the georeference of your territory». With this, we are making time to get to know the territory. This is the essential aspect. Secondly, the honourable Member, with this component, what we are doing is grasping the crumbs and turning them into bread. It is that in practice, in 100 years, nothing has been done. What we're saying is that, following this process, we grab this information and it automatically passes on to the geometric register, whenever the neighboring ones are guaranteed. From this point of view, we are, in a faster and more concrete way, to know the territory. And this is the essential aspect for the prevention and planning of the territory, particularly in forests. Thirdly, from the point of view of financing, funding is the cornerstone of a project of this nature, associated with the position and what the work of the authorities should be. It is therefore guaranteed in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 as a direct source of funding for this purpose. The EUR 2 million has already been spent on complementing all that is necessary in the authorities themselves. There is no camera president of the 10 municipalities who does not appreciate the work that has been done, to which computers have been even made available and the ability to hire more technicians. The reason why we had to do it was that time is short and we need to have more people on the ground in less time. One reason of this nature has also allowed us to have scenarios that now give us the focus on what investment will be in the future. But it is guaranteed that the authorities will not be alone in what has to be done in the context of this project. Therefore, it is a joint project and will therefore be signed a protocol between the entities both central and local. That is why, too, the issue of gratuities is guaranteed. It is guaranteed, during the project — we have four years, at first — and then we will see. The road is walking. In any case, let me say that, in the context of the IMI (municipal property tax), an own diploma is already being prepared, which will be presented in the legislative circuit for this purpose. So what the government has said is being fulfilled, freeness is guaranteed. And it is not so little that we are proposing, in terms of freeness, for the registration area: the related part, all that is connected to heirs, the individual property, all this is planned as free. It is not just that much as the honourable Member said recently. Therefore, in the final note, I would say that what the House decides will be decided on for the future of Portugal. It is that this project is not a project, but rather something absolutely structural for what we want to be and for what we want to see as a national identity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u122	I therefore ask everyone to help this diploma be improved, but, above all, it is approved in its own place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u123	The general discussion of the Proposal for Law No 161 / XIII / 4 is thus concluded. a ( GOV ). Mr. Secretary António Carlos Monteiro now has the floor to report on the file which, in the meantime, has entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u124	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No 22 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — The second amendment to Resolution No 11 - PL / 2015 of 12 November ( List and composition of standing parliamentary committees) and Draft Resolution No 1886 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Respect for and appreciation of private and cooperative education, which falls to 8. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u125	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Petition No 237 / XIII / 2. a ( Ricardo Silva Vicente et al.) — They request the cancellation of oil exploration and production contracts in the Peniche basin and in the Lusitânica basin, together with, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos 1876 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — For the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Centre region, and 1878 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cancellation of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons — Battle and Pombal, and Draft Law No 1036 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Ensures the end of concessions for the exploitation of offshore and onshore hydrocarbons throughout the national territory. Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The petition no. 237 / XIII / 2 is discussed today. the, signed by 5858 petitioners, defending the cancellation of the prospecting contracts, research, development and exploitation of oil in the Peniche basin and in the Lusitânica basin and the triggering of the necessary actions for the suspension of the ongoing work in the Peniche basin and in the Lusitânica basin, in the sea and on land. The Left Block praises the citizen initiative, welcomes the representatives of this petition, present in the galleries, and expresses their agreement with its objectives. In draft resolution No 1876 / XIII / 4. the, which we present on this occasion and which will be voted on today, in general terms, we defend, firstly, the immediate suspension of the exploration, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas, conventional or non-conventional, in national territory; and, secondly, the trigger of the actions necessary for the cancellation of all active contracts relating to the exploitation of hydrocarbons. In 2016 there were 15 contracts for prospecting and producing active oil in national territory, on land and at sea, from Algarve to Porto. Since then, many authorities, associations and environmental movements have challenged the implementation of the oil mining industry, calling in various ways for the environmental and socio-economic responsibility of the Portuguese Environment Agency and the Government to prevent this whole process. The subject has already run several courts and citizenship has gradually come to win the lobby. at this moment, only the areas called « Battle » and « Pombal » have active contracts and work to take place, in a coastal range that extends from the Caldas of the Queen to Soure, in charge of the company Australis Oil & Gas. The company intends to start the first drilling in 2019, in the parish of Bajouca, in Leiria, concerning the area designated « Pombal », and in the parish of Aljubarrota, in Alcobaça, in the area designated « Battle ». The installation of this industry in national territory runs counter to the design of national and international policies to combat climate change. According to the latest report produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to comply with the Paris Agreement and global warming does not exceed 1, 5 C, the world has 12 years to reduce CO2 emissions by 45 %. Time runs out every day. In order to achieve this objective, 80 % of the fossil energy currently known must remain in the basement. The Iberian Peninsula is recognized as one of the European sites where the risk of global warming impacts will be more serious, so the Portuguese Government should be concerned to align itself with the European Low Carbon Road 2050, preventing the oil industry from progressing and promoting the energy transition to clean energy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u127	As is now known, the conclusion of the contracts which the previous PSD/CDS Government made on 30 September 2015 only four days before the date of commencement of this Legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u128	I would like to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u129	...it was a way of trapping our common future, either because a new legislation would follow a few days ago or because it chose to protect the private interests of a multinational against the public collective interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u130	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u131	I shall conclude, Madam President. For us, Block Left, makes the point definitely turn the page of the old energy paradigm, based on the extraction and burning of hydrocarbons, and replaced it by the new paradigm of renewable and environmentally clean energy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u132	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u133	...for today, because tomorrow is too late. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u134	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The change of primary energy sources is absolutely vital, not only for a development paradigm change, but also for not aggravating climate deregulation. As we know, Portugal has already suffered devastating effects of the climate change process, both with the dramas of forest fires and with the occurrence of uncontrolled storms. The regularity and intensity of climate extremes are, moreover, one of the consequences of climate change that is occurring on the planet. Indeed, the responsibility to curb this trend and the commitments made under the Paris Agreement compels us to take measures, local and national, with a view to reducing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and therefore to act to mitigate climate change and its effects at global level. in this framework of change of paradigm and transition to a decarbonized economy, it makes no sense — and it is even contradictory, in our view — to promote and allow the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in our territorial waters or in our subsoil. Still, several research and exploration projects of hydrocarbons in Portuguese territory have been in public discussion, which have been, in fact, the target of great public challenge. It is true that the majority of contracts were, however, denounced, either out of interest on the part of project proponents, or due to the expiry of contracts or irregularity. However, hydrocarbon research projects still remain in force, particularly in the Battle and Pombal. But, like the other projects that have already been abandoned, these projects have been the object of great challenge by the populations, local authorities, economic agents and also by various environmental associations and even parties, including the Greens Ecological Party which has closely followed this process and actively participated in the opposition to it. This is the fact that issues of vital importance are not guaranteed, in particular ensuring that there is no contamination of aquifers that supply the populations, in particular the city of Porto de Mós. But it is also to record the area of great archaeological and speleological sensitivity of the implementation area, as well as the great proximity to protected sites and areas, such as the Air and Fireworks Mountains, questioning the cultural and environmental values of the region. In addition, economic activities such as fisheries, agriculture or even tourism will also be adversely affected. In front of this picture, The Greens, seeking to meet the objectives of the petition that today has been submitted to the Plenary for discussion, present this legislative initiative which, fundamentally, intends to cancel the hydrocarbon research survey contracts which, moreover, give body to the petition we are discussing today and whose petitioners, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage to greet, in particular those who today accompany the work with us. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u136	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to thank the Peniche Free Petroleum movement and about 6000 subscribers for the petition that calls for the cancellation of oil exploration contracts in the Peniche basin and in the Lusitânica basin. This petition could not be more timely. We discuss it the week we know the conclusions of COP 24 (the 24th Conference of the Parties), which strives to consensualize tangible mechanisms to mitigate the effects of climate change. in this COP, the Paris Agreement Rulebook was finalized. However, world leaders have disregarded the new IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) scientific data that point to an increasing and dangerous rise in global temperatures, indicating that the goals and efforts agreed to in the Paris Agreement are currently insufficient. We have, as a civilization, to go further. In Portugal we still have a government narrative which, on the one hand, presents measures and intentions to decarbonise the economy, but on the other, it keeps the door open to the exploration and exploitation of gas and oil. The design, all over the world, is to close oil wells and not the other way around, as the government wants to do in Portugal, with the support of several parties. What we ask for with this law is simple, clear and definitive: it is to close this possibility, ensuring that no more areas are granted for prospecting, research, development and exploitation of fossil fuels and that it is permanently invested in clean and renewable energy alternatives 100 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u138	You now have the floor, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today a petition requesting the cancellation of oil exploration and production contracts, whose petitioners, present here, comply. The PAN, the Left Block and the Greens associated themselves with this petition with initiatives in the same sense. The NAP bill argues that « there have been several attempts to explore fossil fuels, never having been found commercially relevant reserves in the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Left Block is concerned that Portugal is one of the countries most likely to suffer from climate change and that, therefore, it should set an example, not allowing prospecting, exploration or extraction of hydrocarbons. It further argues that the Left Bloc that the economic counterparties for the State, in the contracts that existed, some of which are still in force, are ironic. The Greens also add that the existing contracts have been denounced either by expiry or out of interest. Mrs. Members, you, in the various projects, reveal even some inconsistencies, because the NAP wants prospecting to be only for scientific and never commercial purposes, but the Left Block criticizes the fact that contracts do not ensure sufficient economic interests for the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u140	That's the CDS you're defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u141	However, from the analysis of these two perspectives, I ask what will be better for the State than having private companies to do the prospecting and research without costs for the State. So I'm asking if you guys are. Members believe that it will be the State, that it has no money to finance hospitals, that it will finance prospecting of whatever is for scientific purposes, at the bottom of the sea or onshore. The CDS has always said that the environmental issue needs to be safeguarded and that we are available to improve the instruments for safeguarding and minimizing environmental impacts. In fact, the law was changed, except for error last year, even at the initiative of VV. Ex.. But we have also said that everyone should be involved in a participatory and transparent process, but not populist or alarmist. We have also always said that we do not understand how a country might want to ignore the resources it has. The gentlemen. Members say that we aim to decarbonise to be ‘neutral carbon’ in 2050, but it is not possible to decarbonize everything immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u142	In 2050!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u143	We can't have zero consumption immediately. There's a transitional process. In fact, what we understand is that you also do not ensure and do not safeguard this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u144	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u145	In short, what the CDS believes is that this matter must be considered and cultural, environmental interests should be safeguarded, but, as I said earlier, without populism and without alarming. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u146	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for the use of the word. Can we conclude this discussion? [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias has signed up, however, but ask me to wait a little. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot keep the plenary paralyzed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u147	We don't have yellow vests here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u148	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to offer a first word of greeting to the 5858 citizens who have submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic and, of course, to those who are present in the galleries to follow up this debate. The concerns and warnings of the people and organizations who have been making their voices heard about these interventions in the territory cannot and should not be ignored. In the specific case of surveys of prospecting and research of hydrocarbons by conventional methods in the areas of concession called "Peniche basin" and "Lusitânica basin" there have also been contradictory elements in this controversy that has developed. Some time has passed since this petition entered the Assembly of the Republic, and new elements have come to the public. Often, it is of interest to someone who has contradictory and poorly clarified elements in these processes. There has already been the assertion of alleged tacit deviations and opinions that would allow these interventions to advance to the ground. It's not like that. There must be clarity, transparency and effective participation, in addition to the formality of environmental impact assessment processes. There is no, nor can there be, place here the tacit referrals. That issue must be clarified by now. We cannot accept the idea that «who is silent, consents», but more than that, we cannot even accept that whoever decides, shut up! That can't happen, nor will it happen. It is that silence, that is, the lack of information and clarification, the lack of involvement of local populations, communities and authorities, never yields good results. The implications of each of these actions for the population and for nature cannot be ignored (in particular, in the case of sensitive areas) ; and it cannot be ignored local power, nor derail fishing and fishermen, as happened years ago in this same region with heavy bans, destroyed arts, serious damage that could have been avoided, if it were another respect for those who live and work in the territory. We stress: the formal environmental impact assessment process is a necessary condition, but not enough. This involvement and active participation of local populations and organisations must be ensured. It is known and transparent the position of the PCP on general and absolute prohibitions of all and any work of survey, research and exploration of the geological resources of our country. We have always positioned ourselves and have always spoken in the sense that it is considered the need, of course, to know the resources we have, but also not to abdicate from the sovereign ability to decide whether, when and how we should take advantage of these resources. The problem that has already arisen today is the concrete options that are taken in each process, in each territory, in each intervention. And the concrete experience that the country has had in these processes has already demonstrated and confirmed the reason for these alerts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for unlocking the paralysis in the inscriptions. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor now, which has been inscribed on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I begin by complimenting the more than 5800 petitioners. The decarbonisation of the economy and the so-called 'energy transition' are central objectives with a view to responding to the challenge of climate change. Recently, Eng.António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, said to world leaders: « They will not forgive us if our legacy is an uncontrolled climate change». International agreements, such as the Paris Agreement, lead to the need to reduce the use of so-called hydrocarbons, including oil. It is also important to remember that oil is an exhausting natural resource and that our economy is moving towards an objective of carbon neutrality that can only be achieved by increasing renewable energies instead of fossils. Portugal has a high external energy dependence of 75 % and has unique features to bet on renewable energy. However, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defends, and has always defended, that it must know the resources it has, so the projects that aim to hinder everything throughout the territory are not reasonable. The country may choose to explore natural resources at every moment or not, but knowing them is something that, from the point of view of sovereignty, is crucial. As a historical note, I mean that, over eight decades of studies and research, a discovery has never been made in Portugal with economic viability that would even allow the weighting of the exploitation phase. I would like to stress that exploration, hydrocarbon research activities are high-cost activities, but that allow a greater knowledge of the country's geological infrastructure and its potential resources, with regard to the marine subsoil and land. But we're going to the tape of time and the truth of the facts. Currently, only the areas of concession for oil exploration, research and development and production in the so-called areas of « Battle and Pombal » are in force, signed on 30 September 2015 by the PSD/CDS Government, four days from the legislative elections. The truth is this: it was four days from the legislative elections! I know that the PSD may come today with a different speech, but responsibility is clear. Who signed these contracts four days before the legislative elections? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also recall that the current government has established a moratorium until the end of the mandate for the research and exploration of hydrocarbons on the Portuguese coast, and no licences are allowed for this purpose. It is a reality that contrasts well with the licences given on top of the elections, in the middle of the electoral campaign, without anyone giving for it. But if I may have a small part, it is historic, in the area of energy, this behavior of the PSD and the CDS, when in management they approved the decree-law of the CMECs ( costs for maintaining the contractual balance) in 2004 and subsequently agreed with the largest company in the electric sector the agreements for the transfer of dams and approved them a few days before the legislation in 2005.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u152	Mr. Deputies, you're already slowing down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u153	The current contracts, already cited,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u154	Be true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u155	... are at an initial stage of research and prospection, with a view to defining the scope of the environmental impact study which in its 2017 legal regime has strengthened the obligations of dealers. The State is a good person, who must fulfil its contracts and must enforce the laws, with clear environmental criteria. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, I would like to say that these processes are still at a very early stage, so it is important to ensure the tranquillity of the people and to stress that any economically viable exploitation is still distant and remote, since it requires very clear projects and plans, with regard to environmental standards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u156	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Pimpão, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Since this is my last speech of the year, I wanted to wish all my colleagues a good party and to greet the petitioners here and the about 6000 who followed this petition. I also greet the citizens of the Leiria region and the parish of Bajouca, Leiria, Pombal and Monte Redondo who are also accompanying this theme and, to all of them, I also leave vows for good parties. We are going to discuss this theme starting from global to local, saying that climate change is today recognized as the greatest global challenge. Mr Hugo Costa, Antonio Guterres said at COP 24, even more than that! He said we are not in an emergency situation, but in an emergency situation. from there we also have commitments to the goals of the sustainable development of the United Nations, according to which by 2030 we will have to substantially increase the participation of renewable energy in the global energy matrix. As of Portugal 2020, we aim to reach 20 % of renewable energy production by 2020. But let's go to specific cases. First of all, what we have demanded from the first hour is clarification, information and transparency, since the technical and scientific data that are based on these initiatives must be fully known. This is so that we can have informed political decisions and more informed populations. In fact, a resolution has been adopted, which we defend, to create a green book that assesses and scientifically studies concessions in Portugal. This happened in 2017 and so far the government has done nothing. But more than that, when we make interventions in the territory it is important to respect the positions of the people living and working there and their representatives. Regarding applications for exploration and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Leiria region, in the area granted Battle-Pombal, there are public positions of the municipalities of Batalha, Porto de Mós and, still yesterday, Leiria, arguing that it is essential to carry out comprehensive studies of environmental impacts on biological and archaeological heritage and that these projects may call into question the exploitation of public water captures. The autarchs, as well as the academic and scientific medium, warn that the possibility of resorting to the hydraulic fracture or fracking technique is not irremediably furnished, considered to be a very aggressive method and that may accentuate the risk of pollution in water supply and a possible increase in seismic events. In addition, the municipal assemblies of Pombal and the Great Navy, the parish churches of Bajouca, Leiria region, such as Monte Redondo and Pombal, among others, followed these positions. The fact is that there are many doubts about these matters and the risks of these activities are considerable. Mr Hugo Costa, you have to remember that this government has been in office for almost four years, that it is at the end of the legislature and that it has done zero regarding concessions in our territory. Our duty, therefore, is to ensure that all environmental issues relating to these initiatives are safeguarded in order to promote the sustainable development of the Leiria region and also to safeguard the vital importance of the aquifers that supply that population. Our people's concerns should be addressed in defending and safeguarding the future of new generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u158	Mrs. Members, we turn to the joint assessment of Petition No 439 / XIII / 3. a ( Maria Cristina Pacheco Rodrigues et al.) — Creating legislation to allow food colonies of animals and, in general, of the Bill No 918 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Determines the eligibility of feeding of errant animals. Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vast majority of municipalities in Portugal have not yet implemented CED programs, from capture-sterilization and return of cats to their colonies, as determined by law. However, almost all of them establish, by regulation itself, the prohibition of feeding animals on public roads. If it is true that such regulations contravene the provisions of Law No 27 / 2016, regarding the colonies signalled and intervened by the municipalities, it is also true that it is immoral that animals may starve to death in the streets while awaiting such intervention, as well as it is wrong to pursue, exclude, discriminate or threaten people who, with all altruism, feed them and replace themselves with the role of the State. It is not intended to withdraw this competence from the municipalities, it is only argued that they regulate the way in which the animal feeding act should occur, cautioning the risks to public health and maintaining the health of the places. It is morally indefensible to order a population, which if it wants to be more sensitive and compassionate, to refrain from feeding an animal, putting in question one of the five basic freedoms of animal welfare: not to be hungry or thirsty. To insist on a policy of death by feeding deprivation is to institutionalize cruelty and is not compatible with an ethical and evolved society. But in addition to the ethical issue, this method is not effective, because even in situations of food shortages the tendency of cats, as extremely territorial animals, is to remain in the area where they fixed themselves and created routines. Betting on the prohibition of food will have as a more common consequence, rather than moving away, an increasingly invasive approach of cats to people and their homes, as their despair in search of food increases. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us essential to debate this issue. And we are available to discuss and accept contributions in the field of expertise, so that all interests are guarded and reach a consensual wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block understands that we are faced with a reasonable proposal, because it uniformizes the legislation and framework practices already permitted in some municipalities, but also because it leaves the decision and regulation to each of the municipalities, as it is supposed already with the responsibilities assigned to them by law regarding the care and welfare of animals. Not only does this and also safeguards the need for specifications so that health and health are not involved. In fact, the lack of legal framework does not hinder food, but it deteriorates and degrades the conditions under which this food is made, punishing and not preventing and regulating these practices. There are, of course, examples at national level. Just look at the question of the City Hall of Sintra and the opinion of the municipal veterinarian, which says that, when properly regulated and made, the feeding of animals living on the streets is fundamental to its health, in order to avoid walking in search of food, is an opportunity to comply with the prophylactic measures in force, insofar as regular desparasitations can be scheduled, avoids outbreaks of insanity and, no less important, the social factor, because it avoids coexistence with hungry animals, desperate in search of food. There are also examples at international level that demonstrate that regulation is the best way to guarantee health, health and coexistence between humans and animals. Therefore, it seems to us that this proposal must have the positive opinion of the Assembly of the Republic and be worked on in the specialty, so that we can make changes that further guarantee the health necessary for feeding animals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I comply with the subscribers of this petition in the person of Maria Cristina Pacheco Rodrigues. We also have present and pay attention to the bill presented by the NAP. First of all, I must say that, for the CDS, it is unquestionable that, in the human/animal relationship, it must preside over the duty to defend, protect and care for animal welfare. Secondly, considering the legislation in force, it is up to the municipal chambers to control the populations of errant animals and to correct situations that promote their survival on the public road, with a view to safeguarding health, safety, tranquility, public health and the environment. However, the approved measures for the collection, sterilization and return of feuds to freedom, in order to control their proliferation, create a dilemma: their return is in direct conflict with the prohibition to feed these animals on the street. The act of food and the existing legal impediments necessarily imply that a conciliatory formula must be found which, inter alia, regulates, prescribes and creates rules for the management of possible spaces created or to be created. The determination of the requirements for the eligibility of feeding of errant animals, which prevent careless feeding, which prevent outbreaks of diseases and conflicts, which do not allow access to other animals, which keep the sites clean and free of residues and the accumulation of containers, which define the choice of sites serving the function, finally, that pay attention to a non-number of conditioners that necessarily have to be considered should be primarily the responsibility of the municipal chambers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a time when we advocate, encourage and legislate, bearing in mind the decentralization of competences and the autonomy of each territory. In the CDS, we believe that, as regards the possibility of lawfully feeding errant animals, it will continue to leave to the discretion of the authorities the competent prerogative, which is already committed to them, to adopt administrative regulations establishing rules and rules in accordance with their respective territories. Regulations approved in each municipality, given their proximity to local reality, may and should mirror the specific expectations and needs of their geographical area and meet their socio-cultural characteristics. Therefore, and quoting the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, « it is their expression of self-determination, the ability to govern, under responsibility, the issues of their competence», this statement in which we review ourselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u164	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela Moreira of the CFP has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the subscribers of the petition today in discussion and all those who dedicate themselves to the promotion of animal welfare. The CFP has always raised the issue of animal welfare as a social problem and therefore always intervenes on the subject in a reflected manner. The fact that there is a greater concern about how animals are treated triggered a need to legislate in order to respect animal life, with the CFP making strong contributions in this regard with the approval of the animal slaughter ban law and the extension of the official animal collection centres and sterilization programmes, which originated in a draft law submitted by the CFP. What is needed is the government's political will to strengthen investment and comply with the law. We defend that respect for animal life must go through safeguarding health, safety and public tranquillity, harmonizing the relationship of human beings with the animal. When discussing the feeding of errant animals, it is important to reflect and reflect on all its implications, particularly at the level of public health, urban hygiene and also on the evolution of the number of errant animals and the possibility or not of forming matellas with aggressive behaviour. The NAP brings to the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative which, in addition to not safeguarding these concerns, removes the competence of the authorities, in a clear disrespect and interference in the autonomy of the local authorities, enshrined in the Constitution. Local authorities are the entities that are better able to decide whether or not to allow the feeding of errant animals. We therefore respect the autonomy of the authorities in the adoption of regulations and the establishment of rules and rules that they intend to be the ones most suited to the reality of their territory. Avoiding nuisance is also a way of respecting animals and avoiding the conflict, insecurity and danger they may represent for society. Leaving animal feed to duly authorized entities so that it is possible to treat their diseases and avoid proliferation and that each municipality regulates and sets standards and rules according to the characteristic of the region, the reality and perception of the population is the most appropriate solution. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself and the Order of Veterinary Physicians have raised these concerns. It is for the reasons presented that the CFP does not follow the NAP bill and we reiterate that the full compliance with Law No. 26/2017 and the strengthening of the awareness of the population for the non-abandonment of animals is the solution. The PCP will continue to intervene on animal welfare, but always in a reflective manner and without adulterating the principle of human, animal and nature relationship. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u166	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the petitioners, as well as the author of the legislative initiative. To ensure that there is no doubt, the PSD is a friendly party of animals. The PSD defends and has always defended animal welfare in the countryside and cities. We greatly appreciate the work of men and women who care for animals, provide them with good living conditions, feed them and treat them. However, we cannot fail to express a greater concern with the people in their entirety and with the public health conditions that some behaviors with animals can cause. Despite the alleged good intention of Petition No 439 / XIII / 3. a and draft Law No 918 / XIII / 3. the NAP, here under discussion, does not take into account the autonomy of municipalities and may call into question public health and health. One of the justifications for presenting these initiatives is the existence of Law No 27 / 2016. After two years of the publication of that law, we can see that the conditions for full compliance have not been created by the current Government. It is therefore urgent for the Government and the majority that supports it to create conditions for the applicability of that Law No 27 / 2016. The approval of the NAP bill, as presented, does not solve, rather it would aggravate a problem with which many municipalities currently confront. at a time when both decentralization is spoken, the decision to feed animals in their public spaces is left to the municipalities. Public health and health force all of us to take care of animals, diseases and to think essentially about people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u168	For an intervention by the PS, Mrs Lucia Araújo Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u169	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating all of you. Members and Members of Parliament and also the petitioner Maria Cristina Rodrigues. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, through the adoption of legislation, and the Government, through the implementation of measures, have had policies for the protection and protection of animals. By Law No 27 / 2016 and subsequently by Ordinance No 146 / 2017, it was regulated that municipal chambers can create cat programs in certain public spaces, the so-called CEDs — capture, sterilization and return of animals. Obviously, if a CED programme is authorised by a municipal chamber, there is a duty of the body responsible for its management — whether the municipal chamber or other organisation — to ensure adequate food for the colony. The creation of dog colonies has never been considered, because these animals are potentially more aggressive to people and other animals, and are also worrying about public hygiene and traffic safety. We are concerned that it is intended to open up the possibility of missing dogs being kept and that their diet is authorised, because the principle must be that of collecting, sterilizing and seeking an appropriate caregiver who has it under control. In many situations, these errant dogs organize themselves in tents and attack other animals, compromise the existence of wild fauna, as well as livestock production activities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the petition and the project under discussion today, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is of the opinion that the universe, the specificities and particularities of the 308 Portuguese municipalities are greatly diversified so that there should not be a regulation to authorize the feeding of errant animals, without, locally, by means of the competences of the municipal chambers, being previously guarded many other aspects of the safety of the animals themselves, of other pets and of production, of safety and public health of the populations. And because I still have some time, and with the permission of the President, I would like to wish everyone a holy Christmas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u170	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of the Greens are, of course, to greet the petitioners, who ask the Assembly of the Republic for a reflection and action on the issue of permission to feed colonies of animals. Animal welfare is a matter to which the Greens have devoted particular attention, not only in this Parliament, but also in others which have preceded it, but I would like to stress that the Greens, in this particular legislature, have negotiated with the Government, in particular, the allocation of EUR 2 million for the modernization and construction of official animal collection centres and also, in this last State budget, EUR 500 000 for the sterilization of animals, the implementation of this process and its generalisation, which we consider extremely important, in order to comply with the law. On the matter of food, in particular, many people tend to associate this permission to feed, through caregivers, through the community, with the out of control of the animal population. I would like to give a concrete example, which is happening in Palmela, where a very interesting initiative is being implemented and which demonstrates exactly the opposite: the way to take care and regulate the way to feed animals is also a way to control this animal population. What Palmela did was create shelters where these animals can remain and be fed by caregivers, with foods with specific characteristics, and not with food remains, thus maintaining the order and hygiene of the public space. What was found is that the municipal chamber, through the concentration, so let us say, these animals in these spaces, created better conditions for the implementation of the national CED project. In other words, through the reception of these animals in spaces where they become able to live safely, under the responsibility of one or more caregivers, the chamber created better conditions for sterilization, desparasitation and return of wild cats to the territory of origin. Therefore, it seems to me, in fact, that a concrete project implemented by the Municipal Chamber of Palmela with already quite visible results and that the chamber itself intends to extend throughout its territory, because it considers that its implementation has had quite positive aspects. With regard to the bill under discussion, we believe that it contains some quite obvious weaknesses, but we are available to contribute so that, in the field of specialty, it may, in some matters, be substantially altered and improved. But we consider positive what the petition essentially calls on the Assembly of the Republic, which is precisely the discussion and the possibility of solutions being found. in this particular case, it is about finding solutions, in terms of food, for animal welfare. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u172	The next item is the motion for a resolution No 76 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Consultation between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, which creates the Monteiro Lobato Prize for Literature for Children and Youth, signed in Salvador on 5 May 2017, and the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2017, points to which no discussion times have been allocated, so we immediately passed the legislative period of votes. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 209 presences, to which Mr Pedro Pinto, who has signalled it to the Bureau, making 210 Members, and we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting vote No 696 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS members ) — Despite the death of João Maria Ferreira Teixeira, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 17, John Maria Ferreira Teixeira died at the Assembly of the Republic in the III, IV and V Legislatures, elected by the circle of Vila Real. João Maria Ferreira Teixeira, natural of the parish of Santo António de Monforte, municipality of Chaves, was born on August 27, 1940, studied at the Seminary of Vila Real and continued studies in Angola, having attended the course of law at the University of Coimbra. He performed professional functions at the Fernão High School of Magalhães, in Chaves, and at the Executive Commission of the High Thames and Barroso Tourism Region, in the 1980s and 1990s. She was an active activist of the PPD / PSD of Keys, having played several leadership positions in this concelesed structure as well as in the district. He was President of the Board of Freguesia de Santo António de Monforte and member of the Assembly of Freguesia. He was, during several mandates, a member of the Municipal Assembly of Keys and a councilman of the City Council. He was also a Member of the Assembly of the Republic between 1983 and 1991. Their flexibility, dedication, responsibility and professionalism were placed at the service of their professional activity, politics and personal life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents to the family and friends of João Maria Ferreira Teixeira the most felt condolences and expresses deep sorrow for his death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to Vote No 695 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS and PSD members )........................................................................................................................................................ Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 15, an INEM helicopter was opened in the Valongo area when it returned to a mission of transporting serious patients from Bragança to the port. the accident will regret the death of the four occupants of the helicopter: the Spanish physician Luís Vega, nurse Daniela Silva and pilots João Lima and Luís Rosindo. This is a moment of profound dismay, sadness and sorrow for the families, friends and colleagues of the victims, for INEM and for the Portuguese in general. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, regrets the tragic occurrence and conveys its deepest condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the victims, expressing its deepest regret for the success. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u176	There are several family members, friends and colleagues of the victims in a public gallery. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed to Vote No 687 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and subscribed by a PS Member ) — Rejection for the confinement and isolation of migrants in Denmark. Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Danish Government, currently formed by a coalition between central-right parties and supported in parliament by the Danish People's Party, of far-right, made the decision to send ‘undesirable migrants’ to an island in the Baltic Sea. As from 2021, asylum seekers whose applications have been rejected and foreigners who have registered or who present a alleged danger to public order will be confined to Lindholm Island, located three kilometres from the Danish coast and who currently houses laboratories, stables and crematoriums in a research centre for infectious animal diseases, however closed, but still without works done. The announcement of this measure was made by the Danish Minister for Immigration, Integration and Housing, Inger Stojberg, who said that these migrants ‘are not welcome to Denmark and have to feel’. This is another decision on a preconceived path with migrants. In March 2018, a legislative package, known as a ghetto package, has already been approved, with restrictive measures imposed on migrant concentration areas. By setting up this measure a violation of international law—as in practice it restricts freedom of movement to persons who cannot be expelled under international law—, a vehement response by the humanists and the humanists in the rejection and rejection of such measures is urgent. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, repudiates and condemns the decision of the Danish Government to confine and isolate migrants on the island of Lindholm. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions by 4 PS Members (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Miranda Calha and Vitalino Canas) and 2 CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa and João Piinho de Almeida).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u179	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u180	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u181	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Vitalino Canas, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u183	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that I and Mr António Gameiro will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, is it also for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u185	Yes, yes, Mr. President. I would like to announce that Mr Duarte Marques and I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u186	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, you have the floor, I suppose for the same purpose
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u187	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Rubina Berardo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u189	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1884 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers between 21 December 2018 and 8 January 2019 and extension of the investigation period for more than 60 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Draft of Deliberation No 22 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — The second amendment to Resolution No 11 - PL / 2015 of 12 November ( List and composition of permanent parliamentary committees) is not in agreement with all the banks, so I withdraw it myself at the moment. This Draft Deliberation will be presented after a forthcoming Conference of Leaders. We will vote on draft resolution No 1669 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of the Main Military Hospital and the Belém Military Hospital as back-up hospitals in social and clinical support for military and former military personnel of the Armed Forces. [[Subject to the vote, the PS member José Pedro Aguiar Branco and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u191	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u192	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u193	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u194	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u195	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u196	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Rui Silva, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u197	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u198	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, together and in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 1873 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo in Ovar, and 1871 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By the autonomy, reopening of the emergency service and valuing the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention were adopted.]] These diplomas are down to 9. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 824 / XIII / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Continental Platform. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were approved with votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Os Verdes, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE.]] This diploma falls to 3. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution No. 907 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the enhancement of the Continental Platform Extension. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PAN.]] This diploma falls to 3. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 872 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Preconception protection regime, assisted drug procreation, pregnancy, childbirth, birth and postpartum. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD and CDS-PP.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1034 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The second amendment of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 strengthening the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth is adopted. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD and CDS-PP.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We proceed to vote, in general, on Bill No. 928 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Assigned a temporary residence visa to foreign citizens with a year of social security discounts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1035 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Change the scheme of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory, establishing the allocation of the temporary visa of residence to immigrant citizens with a year of social security discounts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u199	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u200	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u201	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes. We then, in general, voted the Bill No. 942 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establish the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals as the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u202	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u204	Mr President, I know it will be quite exhausting, but Mr President will have to announce my vote, which, in this case, was against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u205	No, Mr President, it will only be necessary to announce when there is a need, because in the framework of a global vote, when I say 'the other Members. Members and parliamentary groups', their vote is included. I then repeat the result of the previous vote on Bill No 942 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The general vote of Bill No 1037 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Strengthening the capacity to produce medicines by the current Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, then the national laboratory for chemicals and pharmaceuticals. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 958 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Visa the strengthening of seismic resistance of buildings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 778 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Revokes the exceptional and temporary regime for the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions, established by Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April 2014 on seismic and other risks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No. 1032 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Seismic building reinforcement, including in rehabilitation works. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u207	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that I will give a statement of vote on the votes of these last three seismic resistance-related diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u209	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote together on requests submitted by the PS, the CFP, the Greens, the EB and the NAP, asking for the resignation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 90 days, respectively, of the Proposal for Law No 154 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the legal regime for arms and their munitions, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 853 of Bill No 837 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Opens an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms from the Bill No 859 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Establishs the realization of a campaign of awareness and a new voluntary delivery period of firearms, with a view to disarming society, of the Bill No 899 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates a awareness campaign for the importance of voluntary delivery of firearms and ammunition, giving a new deadline for voluntary delivery without criminal proceedings, and of the Bill No 931 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the introduction of criminal proceedings accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, without voting for a period of 90 days from the Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 124 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1975 and 1980. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the vote on the request submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 90 days of the Proposal for a Law No 161 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1876 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — For the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Centre region. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1878 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cancellation of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons — Battle and Pombal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN, PS Deputies Antonio Sales, Margarida Marques and Odete João and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS and CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1036 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Ensures the end of concessions for the exploitation of on and offshore hydrocarbons throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u210	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u211	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u212	Mr President, I voted against Bill No 1036 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) and in favour of the other two diplomas previously voted, draft resolution No 1876 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and draft resolution No 1878 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens), and that I will give a statement of vote on these three diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u213	I therefore repeat the result of the previous vote on Bill No 1036 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u214	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u215	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u216	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the vote on the last three diplomas, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Margarida Marques, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u218	Yes, Mr. President. It is to announce that I and the Deputies Antonio Sales and Odete John will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u219	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on the application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 918 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Determines the eligibility of feeding of errant animals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 76 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Consultation between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, which creates the Monteiro Lobato Prize for Literature for Children and Youth, signed in Salvador on 5 May 2017. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2017. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1881 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD and CDS-PP ) — Recommends strengthening European humanitarian aid to Venezuelan refugee citizens in order to find a comprehensive and responsible solution to support their integration into the countries of origin in the European Union ( amended text within the Commission ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u221	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u222	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u223	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, do you intend to use the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u224	Yes, Mr. President. It is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No 852 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Revoking Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( Review of the Urban Rent Legal Regime ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Local Power and Housing on draft Law No 850 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Establishs counter-order national punishment for harassment in lease. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from the taxation of residential income arising from renting or underrendering under the Accessible Rent Programme. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on the request made by BE for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of the proposal for an amendment to Article 2 ( l ). o Law No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from the taxation of residential income arising from renting or underrendering under the Accessible Rent Programme. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Given the approval of this request, the parliamentary groups that want it each have two minutes to intervene on this appeal. [[Pause.]] Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have finally reached the culmination of the process of deepening security in the right to housing. On the side of the Left Block, we were able to approve four initiatives: the punishment of harassment of tenants by counter-ordering; the deepening of the right of preference and the moratorium on evictions, which the Socialist Party accompanied, but limited immensely in scope; the lifting of the limit to municipal indebtedness, proposed in Budget for 2019; and we also deepened the right of preference. We also speak of the greater protection that has been registered, with the end of the very short contracts that are practiced and the protection to some weaker tenants. This is an example of the registration of the moratorium as a permanent law. And it is even very important this protection, because, for example, D. Emília, of the building Santos Lima, which has recently been the victim of harassment, is now decidedly protected in the right to housing in the house where he lives 60 years ago and the landlord can now be penalized by the practices he has pursued to expel it. It is thus of the greatest importance and justice this protection and is a victory against speculation. But the Socialist Party continues without political courage to regulate the market decisively. And in the end, it turned to the right, to the PSD, and agreed to remove all the limitations proposed by the government in relation to the IRS, i.e. when the government proposes to lower the rate of IRS for contracts over 10 years and with income limitations, it withdrew from everything and incorporated the PSD proposals, which proposes the lowering of IRS without any imposition and limitation on the market. Thus, whatever the value of the income charged, any owner will be able to see the IRS of the lowered residential income, only for making a two-year contract. As much as PS and PSD say, this is not a promotion of long-term contracts, it is a promotion of two-year contracts and new contracts and we do not deal with it. We have important advances, yes, and this has been achieved on the left. The rest is the usual business on the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u227	Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola that the PS Parliamentary Group is satisfied with the results achieved during this process we called the housing package. We have always sought balance in the results and options that have been adopted and have improved both the Government's proposals and the proposals for amendments by other parliamentary groups. We sought balance between the interests of landlords and the rights of tenants, between the value of tax incentives and the duration of leases, and also during the discussion process, we sought to recover the protection of tenants. We proposed SIMA (Injunction Service in Rent Material) and improved the scheme for tenants, protecting tenants over 65 years of age or disabled people who have lived for more than 15 or 20 years, depending on the type of contract. We also accompanied the designs in the new generation of housing policies and improved the mechanisms in the dynamization of the lease, especially for medium and long-term leases. We also supported the Accessible Renting Programme, enabling 20% below the average market value and exempting the landlords from taxation, which allowed the appearance of more houses for rent. We have therefore met a demand that there is, on the part of a class of average incomes that is overburdened in housing expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u229	Mr President, you have outlived your time, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u230	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we have always looked for balances that met the reason, whether it was on the left, on the right or at the center. We therefore maintain our position on this issue raised by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u231	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the process, which has been dragged over several months, with regard to the legal regime of the lease, I would like to say that the CDS has contributed greatly so that this debate can be done without ideological extremism, with weighting and, above all, seeking to improve the legal regime that exists and that has provided improvements in the housing and lease regime in our country. All this the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens have fallen, so our participation, having been active, has not been fruitful, now there is a new legal regime, which causes us the greatest doubt, but which is the responsibility of this left-wing majority. As for this appeal, it is a habitual and ill conscience counsel. It is clear that no one disagrees that affordable lease is an important goal in a commitment that must always be made between the right to housing, a constitutional right, and the right to property, an equally constitutional right. But what was achieved between PS and PSD seems somehow a half-way solution, which does not like either one or the other. We'll see what happens. As for this advocacy of the Left Block, it is the custom, it is the Friday theatre: pretend that they are against, that they are opposition, but then approve Budgets. Bad conscience! Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u233	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Changes have been made in the legislation of the rental of a positive sense, with regard to the greater protection of tenants and tenants. These measures, which go so far, deserve the support of the CFP. However, we must not fail to mention the limited nature of these measures, because with the design imposed by the PSD and the CDS, with the amendment of the law of urban lease, in particular the waste disposal counter and the whole process of simplification so that people can, in a faster way, lose their housing where they have been residing for many years. We also believe that there are a number of approved proposals that do not go in a positive direction. We are talking about proposals that reduce taxes to large owners, to real estate funds. Let us see: it is said that it is intended to give more stability and allocate tax incentives for long-term contracts. The long duration is from two years. Two years, three years, this is very long! ... But this was approved by PS and PSD. And the rents can be 1000 €, 2000 €, 3000 €! That is, PS and PSD converged to assign tax bills to those who have speculated with housing and to those who continue to speculate with housing, to the detriment of guaranteeing the right to tenants and residents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u235	There is talk of affordable renting but the implementation of similar mechanisms in other European cities has led to the pushing of families with lower incomes to the outskirts, leaving the city centers only to those who have high incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u236	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that housing policy is not fiscal policy and housing problems are not solved with tax incentives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u238	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u239	What was important and which should have been decided was in fact that the PS, instead of converging with the PSD, had converged with the PCP to repeal this law, which does not protect anyone, does not protect residents, nor does it guarantee the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u240	Mr António Costa Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thought, perhaps naively, that this left block attorney was to apologize to the Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u242	Apologize for their speech on morals related to real estate speculation and acceptance of the practice of some of your elements. He also believed that the Left Block had come to apologize to the 120,000 students displaced in this country, who had been rejected by the PSD proposal that allowed them more accessible income. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u243	The Left Block and the other parties, particularly the PCP and the Socialist Party, should also apologize to the young Portuguese, who will be unable to deduct tax charges on leases up to 750 €. The Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Greens should also apologize to the Portuguese for a number of measures that the PSD has put forward—in particular measures related to urban lease, in which the authorities and the central state could make their contribution through the use of public returned buildings—could not have been implemented. Any Portuguese who is listening to me certainly does not understand this situation and the position taken by these parties. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Nevertheless, the PSD was able to present a set of very important measures, which allowed long-term contracts to be approved and had attractive rates for those who save, invest and believe in the lease market. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] The PSD has also been able to adopt very important social proposals, particularly at the level of the National Rent Balcony (BNA), where there is a social look at the most fragile situations. The PSD has also been able to approve its proposal, according to which the compensation of those who are subject to houselessness is exempt from IRS tax ( Tax on the Income of Single Persons). Thus, the PSD has made a big contribution, and yet the Socialist Party and the CDS-PP have followed the PSD proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u244	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u245	I shall finish, Mr President, with good wishes to all the ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u246	for my part, thank you, Mr. We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the Block on the Left, as set out in Article 2 ( l ). o Law No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at Commission level on the Proposal for a Law No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from the taxation of residential income arising from renting or underrendering under the Accessible Rent Programme. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] We will move on to the overall final vote of Bill No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u247	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u248	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u249	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u250	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final wording and the time limit for the claim against inaccuracies, in respect of the text of the Proposal for Law No 127 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] We shall, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 128 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs differentiated autonomous IRS rates for real estate income in long-term housing leases in Article 8. the draft Law No 847 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing rental ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and the New Urban Rent Scheme ), to Bill No 1041 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons for the exclusion of taxation of the amounts of compensation for complaints of residential lease contracts of taxable persons with low RABC ( corrected annual gross income ), and to the Bill No 1046 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income. [[Subject to the vote, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira voted in favour of the PSDP, against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission on this same replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now turn to the overall final vote on the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira voted in favour of the PSDP, against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We shall vote on the request submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final wording and the deadline for claim against inaccuracies in respect of this replacement text which has just been approved. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] We shall, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Local Power and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 129 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Measures to correct imbalance situations in the position of tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban leases and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation, and to draft Law No 847 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing rental ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, and the New Urban Rent Scheme ), and 1043 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — The sixth amendment is made to the New Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 for the improvement of the National Rent Balcony and the allocation of new social solutions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held at the Commission building on this same replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u251	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u252	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u253	Mr President, I would like to announce, in order to be registered, that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u254	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Local Power and Housing on draft Law No 1042 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August for the redefinition of the terms of operation of the National Housing Commission. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u255	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u256	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u257	Mr President, that is to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u258	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 113 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Specifies the crime of aggression by amending Act No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft legislation Nos 77 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ), 324 / XIII / 2. a ( BE), 518 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 519 / XIII / 2. a (The Greens), which establishes the regime for classical or contemporary dancers' profession. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u259	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u260	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u261	Mr President, it is to be announced that, with regard to the last vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u262	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Hélder Amaral also asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u263	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u264	It is also registered, Mr. We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on the Proposal for a Law No 138 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity and the procedural regime applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-orders the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 97. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u265	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u266	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u267	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u268	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Mesquita, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u269	Mr President, in order to announce that, in relation to the vote on the final text establishing the scheme for the classical or contemporary dancer profession, the CFP will also deliver a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-21.u270	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we proceed to the vote on the application, submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for claim against inaccuracies, in relation to the final text relating to the Proposal for a Law No 138 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on Bills Nos 835 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recognizes that compensation interest is due when undue payment of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards and 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the obligation to pay indemnities when the collection of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards ( 46 ). the amendment to the General Tax Law ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place on Thursday, 3 January. First, we will appreciate the Draft Resolution No. 1885 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the amounts of the Decentralisation Fund in 2019. Secondly, we will discuss in general the Drafts of Law Nos 843 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Housing Bases Act and 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Base Law. Thirdly, we will generally debate draft Law No 895 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recognizes and regulates the profession of criminologist(a). Finally, the general discussion of Bill No. 959 / XIII / 3 will take place. a ( PCP ) — Establishs impediments in the decision on processes of institutionalization of children and young people at risk. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Authorities, I wish everyone a happy Christmas and an excellent year of 2019. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 54 minutes.]]
