ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority will be in favour of determining the opening of the galleries. As I mentioned at the outset, this is the urgent debate requested by the Left Block Parliamentary Group under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on policies for the inclusion of persons with disabilities. To open the debate, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor. [[Pause.]] Physical barriers continue to be a problem, in our case, fortunately, beyond. We are therefore in a position to ask Mr Jorge Falcato to begin his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to begin by complimenting the disabled here, as well as all those who accompany this debate in their homes. After two years of this government solution, we have to think about what has been done by people with disabilities so that we can move forward more and better. When disabled people and their families were released from the right-wing government, they were relieved. It was the opportunity to end the forgetfulness that had been voted upon by successive governments. This hope was strengthened when they heard about changes in political orientation that corresponded to a paradigm change: policies that left behind the model of doctor-assistant and charitable and based on the social model and human rights. Speaking to people with disabilities and their families — and I have done so regularly — we find the feeling of disappointment. Why is this discouragement? Because there are many deferred promises, such as the regulation of employment quotas for disabled workers in private companies that have been awaiting regulation for 14 years and which should have happened in 2017. Because the revision of the legislation on inclusive school marks a step forward. Because the deadline for the law to make all public spaces accessible has ended, and the government's solution is to postpone the problem for another year and make another lifting of the existing barriers. Because we no longer heard about the Inclusive Territories program that would ensure, from December 2017 onwards, the physical and communication accessibilitys in conjunction with the municipalities. We don't need any more lifts. We need communication, transport and accessible cities. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the other hand, there is also a lot of slowness in implementing other promises. In independent life, for example, the Secretary of State announced the opening of candidatures to pilot projects by the end of 2016, but only yesterday opened. We believe that at present there are two key issues that concern disabled people and their families: social benefits for inclusion (PSI) and the allocation of support products. The government had two years to operationalize the PSI, which is a measure that has our support. However, we do not support the rigged form as it is being implemented. Almost six months after its entry into force, many people who have asked for it, and to it are entitled, have not yet received it. But more serious because of the consequences is the social security requirement of the inability of hundreds, if not thousands, of people with disabilities. The news that comes to us is from courts seized from inactivatement processes. This demand for social security demonstrates a social insensitivity we didn't expect. The payment system was changed, knowing that this amendment would interrupt the payment of a necessary amount for many families, given the poverty situation in which they are living. Staying without this money can mean that many families do not have what to eat. The second is the obvious contradiction with the content of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We recall that the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recommended to the Portuguese State in April 2016 the repeal of total and partial protection schemes. This requirement for social security is even more incomprehensible when it has already brought into Parliament a bill that will change the existing regime. The situation of these families must be resolved immediately. This can't go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u4	Another issue that concerns us is the allocation of support products. The situation is serious and requires a quick solution. The analysis and referral of proceedings continues to take considerable time, sometimes more than one year, although the Government has informed the United Nations that the maximum time limit is 60 days. Social security, based on a manual of procedures, requires water receipts, electricity, household income and IRS declarations and introduces a condition of resources, contrary to a decree-law that says that the allocation of these support products is universal and free. The Ministry of Health, through a mere regulatory circular, changed the existing criteria and restricted access to diapers to those with economic insufficiency. It is a new condition of resources, a new burden on the law, of a Ministry that in 2016 spent on support products €2,170 000 when it had 7 million available in the Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize progress in disability policies, important advances, although still shy, in view of the expectation that has been created. Much more needs to be done. The Government undertook to present a disability strategy until April last year, and announced a month before Portugal would develop a new strategy called the Green Paper and Agenda for Inclusion and the timetable for its development. We urgently need this strategy. We need to know what objectives we want to achieve, what actions are needed, what timetable and funding for their implementation, in fact, to have a strategy based on a social model and human rights. Only in this way will it be possible to define consequent policies. Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretarys : This debate has to come out with clear answers. People with disabilities need to know what they count. Will the government prevent the incapacity of thousands of disabled people, informing that this procedure will not be necessary to receive the PSI? Will the Government once and for all clarify that the allocation of support products is universal and free and that it is illegal to amend a law decree by means of a legislative circular or a procedural manual? Is the government going to meet the 60-day deadline? When will the so-called Green Paper be completed and when will the disability strategy be presented that should have been submitted 11 months ago? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will make a small wait for Mr Jorge Falcato to take his place again. [[Pause.]] Taking advantage of the Government's members here today, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Government: Allow me to speak from here. Perhaps it would be more correct to talk about the speaker's Tribune, but technologies make it easier for me to talk about it here. As everyone knows, the XXI Constitutional Government has made the rights of people with disabilities a priority of its governmental action, insofar as we speak of a corollary essential in our society so that this is a truly fairer and more solidarityary society. And this is because we are firmly convinced that only in a society full of diversity will we find and achieve its full wealth and progress. It was with this conviction, and from the very outset in its Programme, that this Government envisaged the need to simplify social benefits in the area of disability, by creating a single benefit, which is a social benefit for inclusion. This provision aimed, in its creation, to improve the social protection of people with disabilities, to compensate for specific costs, in general, of the disability situation, to cover situations of poverty and special economic vulnerability by some citizens with disabilities, and also to make a link between social benefits and the right to full employment and social inclusion of these citizens. in this measure, we created a benefit that takes place in three different components: the first is the basic component, which can be required since last October 2017 ; the second is the supplement that will be available to be required from October 2018 ; and the third, the increase, during the year 2019 will also reach people with disabilities. What can we effectively change with this benefit? Let's go to numbers. For a total of 5087 people so far, we have increased their social protection by 100 %, i.e. we have given them the possibility of monthly having a value of 264, 32 €, when so far they have a zero value to compensate for these same specific costs arising from disability. For a total of 12,470 former beneficiaries of the monthly life support, this benefit brought an increase of 35 % of the monthly value, which is 68, 98 €. This is for former beneficiaries of the monthly life support of less than 70 years of age. For the others, a total of 712, above 70 years of age, this increase was 24 %, a total of €51, 95. We have also migrated the previous beneficiaries of the disability pension to date to a total of 50 371 beneficiaries, who had an increase in their benefits of 0,2 %. If we take into account the value that is being paid so far, according to Portaria No 5 / 2018, valid and which defines the start values of the benefit from October 2017, they will have an increase of 1, 8 % once the new portals are approved that will be updated for 2018. There has been talk here of delays in payments. I will have the opportunity to give numbers and explain exactly where we are, but generally speaking, the situation is summarized as follows: in October 2017 we immediately migrate about 13 000 beneficiaries of the monthly life support. In November we continued with these same beneficiaries, and in December the payment of this new benefit to new applicants was initiated. In January, the former beneficiaries of social disability pension and the beneficiaries of the transitional scheme for agricultural workers migrated. There was a monthly increase in the number of new beneficiaries to receive social benefits for inclusion. Obviously, not all of them. In February, the mechanism is finally ready and, let's say, what in the application allows us to defer all kinds of processes, which is because, according to Decree-Law No 126 / 2017 itself, priority had to be given to situations of greater disability, i.e. 80 % or more of disability, and they are, yes, receiving the benefit from December with retroactive to October, being the other situations, with regard to people with less than 80 % of disability and migrants from the disability pension, to be granted since last February. I think I'm about to finish my time. I have more data to give but unfortunately they will have to stay for the clarifications of the first round. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u7	Mrs. Members, this debate, in accordance with its own format, will continue in two rounds, with the intervention of the parliamentary groups in each of them in a decreasing order of representativeness and intervention by the Government at the end of each round. Therefore, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are once again discussing policies for the inclusion of disabled people, this time the requirement of the Left Block. Just one year ago we were here with the same debate, and yet, because that means that the policies for inclusion of people with disabilities are permanently in the debate and on the political agenda of this Parliament, and the PSD welcomes this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u10	We have repeatedly stated that these matters are, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, supra partisan matters above the « partisan », for which we must make every effort to find the necessary consensus and give effective answers to citizens with disabilities and disabilities. We have to say that the Government and the Secretary of State have not been able to properly exploit this potential to benefit from a broad consensus in this House for the implementation of these policies. We have spent a year on that debate — in fact, the government has been in office for more than two years — and we recognize that there has been an extended set of intentions, good intentions, which unfortunately have not yet passed away, without, however, recognizing that there have been some positive advances in these matters: the social provision of inclusion and the movement of support for independent life are positive contributions that the PSD has already had the opportunity to praise. However, the inclusion policy for people with disabilities is not exhausted here. Moreover, the implementation of the social inclusion benefit, as the Secretary of State said here, has been slow and subject to constraints that the Government has not been aware of in due course and which prevent its beneficiaries from receiving in time. But this is not our question. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the information and scientific studies available indicate that people with disabilities and disabilities are located in the social groups most exposed to the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that employment and employability are fundamental tools in pursuing the policies of inclusion of people with disabilities. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that access to the labour market, professional integration and lifelong learning are the basic principles of public inclusion policies that must constantly guide government action. And this is what we want to leave in this debate today: professional valorisation and inclusion in the labour market as a real engine of inclusion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u11	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will deliver two draft resolutions in order to strengthen the right to work by persons with disabilities, making their employment effective, either in the Public Administration — a mechanism already provided for in the law and already spoken by Mr Jorge Falcato but which has never been fulfilled, a quota of 5 % of disabled workers — or in private enterprises — a quota of 2 % of disabled workers, whose absence of regulation of the law has compromised their applicability. We have heard the Secretary of State say, on the subject of the National Strategy for Deficiency, that goes, in the same strategy, to establish employment quotas for these workers. Mr. Secretary of State, it is much simpler than that. It is not necessary to wait for the Strategy — which, for example, has already been mentioned here, is late, although it has been a commitment from the Government to present it until April — it is easier, it is only to comply with existing laws. That is precisely the meaning of the draft resolutions presented by the PSD today. Furthermore, for two years now, the PSD has warned the Government of this issue without any success, and this is due to the motions for resolutions that we are presenting today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this field of professional rehabilitation of disabled people, the PSD receives no lessons from anyone. [[Protests from BE and The Greens.]] Precisely in the years of major financial constraints, the employment of people with disabilities almost doubled in Portugal. Between 2011 and 2016, the employment of people with disabilities has increased considerably and this is pointed out in a report issued by the Monitoring Centre for Disability and Human Rights. So, Madam Secretary of State, it is only to give you continuity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u12	For an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u13	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government has included in its Programme the protection of persons with disabilities or disabilities as a priority and a national design. As mentioned in the programme text, this is a strategic goal for a more equal society, because only a society that integrates all people can realize their potential. For this reason, not only did the Government propose to reform disability protection measures as it created new measures, in a logic of greater coverage of beneficiaries, more appropriate benefits, greater simplification of procedures and more stringent and transparency in decisions. in this perspective, the government has created a new way of looking at the person with disabilities or disability through the creation of the most accompanying regime, replacing the institutes of prohibition and disability and eliminating the negative social burden associated with disability or disability. It is also important to highlight the Government's initiative to carry out a census of the disabled population and the creation of a new model of study which should already reflect in the forthcoming census the correct lifting of disability and disability in Portugal. It is in this framework that the Government intends to implement a variety of measures with a view to better integration of people with disabilities, with the ultimate objective of eliminating poverty and social exclusion. Social provision for inclusion is a paradigmatic measure of this government because it provides a protection system that adapts to the different needs of the disabled or disabled population throughout their life cycle. The model on which this innovative social benefit for disability is designed is based on three fundamental pillars, as mentioned by the Secretary of State: basic provision, complement and increase. This is a benefit that is paid monthly to beneficiaries in their various components and has a phased application, and by the end of 2017 the base component was fully implemented, covering more than 67 000 beneficiaries. In the fourth quarter of 2018, it is planned to cover the base component and complement more than 50 000 beneficiaries; in 2019 the component of the increase will be developing and the base component will be extended to protect children and young people with disabilities. Overall, the measure plans to support more than 200 000 people. It is a unique benefit, which covers more people because it fits more correctly disability / disability. This is therefore an innovative model, because it has come to bring more justice, because it supports people when they need it most, because it recognizes their autonomy and their right to participation. In the same innovative and effective way, the Government has also created other social protection measures, which should be mentioned. One first is the Model of Support for Independent Life ( MAVI ), whose aim is the provision of personal assistance to the disabled person or disability for the realization of their daily life activities that otherwise as a result of the interaction with the environment in which they are inserted, could not perform. MAVI will be implemented by the Independent Life Support Centres ( CAVI ) in pilot projects, which will run from 2017 to 2020, with funding from Portugal 2020, and will have different modalities of assistance, tailored to the needs of citizens. Other social protection measures are also: the promotion of accessibility, enhancing the competences of the INR, IP ( National Institute for Rehabilitation ) ; the extension of parking lot allocation situations for persons with disabilities or disabilities, extending the beneficiaries they need; The approval of the Braille system used in Portugal by Decree-Law No 126 / 2017 of 4 October repealing old and outdated legislation; Within the framework of special education, the Government approved specific expenditure with cooperation agreements with educational service providers in this area; simplification of the technical aid allocation scheme, making the processes more comprehensive and transparent; the reduction of the tax burden on employment income of persons with disabilities or disabilities; the increase in social benefits for assistance to third parties and disability benefits in family allowances, as well as the increase in the number of beneficiaries covered; Finally, the creation of a network of Inclusion Balkans in the district centres of social security (CDSS) is already in operation, of the 18 district centres, six of them, namely, in the districts of Lisbon, Faro, Porto, Setúbal, Vila Real and Viseu. This government will definitely change the way we view disability, because it will create more equality, more responsibility, more equity, more justice and, above all, Portugal will now be able to count on its entire population. Having said that, we have noted that the PSD does not receive lessons in this matter! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u14	For a new intervention at this stage of the debate, Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is in the policies in the area of disability an "elephant in the middle of the room" that it is not usual to speak. We all know he exists and he's in the room, but a lot of people pretend not to see him. It is the multi-use attestation, an attestation that reflects an outdated model of understanding disability, the medical model, which assesses disabilities and in no way can serve to assess the needs of people with disabilities. While we maintain this assessment and use it as a reference in the development of disability policies we will be introducing a factor of distortion, arbitrariness and possibility of creating situations of injustice that cannot exist. In the PSI (social benefit for inclusion), for example, a frontier was established in 80 % of disability. Now, we all know who has more than 80 % of disability and has less needs than anyone who has 70 %. This is possible because we use an evaluation system that does not serve. Of course, there is also the problem of arbitrariness with which some medical boards make the evaluation, but the joints are not the source of the problem. In the assessment that the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities implemented the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Portugal, in April 2016, it recommended the review of the criteria for the allocation of the degree of disability in accordance with the Convention and the establishment of appropriate rules in its legislation and policies. In March 2017, the Government constituted a working group with the aim of analysing the existing legal regime, that working group, appointed by the Government, in which persons with disabilities were not represented, contrary to what is prescribed in the Convention. For this working group, among others, it established the objective of presenting, within 180 days, an evaluation report of the National Table of Incapacitys for Work Accidents and Occupational Diseases, with proposals to amend it or the implementation of other existing classifications, if that was their understanding. It's been six months. What was the understanding of this working group? What were the conclusions reached? Where can you find the report? Is there any proposal for a new evaluation system that can finally serve a policy based on the social model and human rights that finally leaves the medical model in the past? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u16	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Policies for people with disabilities deserve a priority from the CDS which has been highlighted here, in this legislature, with a set of initiatives that are well-known to all, which, in our view, also represented an important contribution to the one who should be the design of future policies in this area and addressed to these people. We have had a quite open and cooperative attitude in this regard, recognizing what good has been done, congratulating us on this, and hoping, above all, that this legislature, this government mandate, is an opportunity that is not lost and can effectively represent a significant benefit for people, many of whom, and their families, are among the most vulnerable among us. We can therefore not fail to congratulate ourselves on this schedule by the Left Block. And we cannot fail to welcome an opportunity to question and hear from the Government a point of view on various matters. We are not interested here in the dialectic of the confrontation of the past and the present. Each has his or her merits, each has his or her defects. We here want to deal primarily with the future. And, Madam Secretary of State, without prejudice to much of what you have said is certainly important and remarkable, the fact is that we have here today a set of issues of greater importance and very concrete, which we have already brought here and to which we hope that the Secretary of State will still have the opportunity to answer. The issues that have already been brought here are very concrete. As regards social benefits for inclusion, Mrs. Secretary of State, how many people have effectively no longer received the money they are entitled to for bureaucratic reasons, for reasons of great insensitivity to social security? Madam Secretary of State, tell us urgently what you have done or what you are going to do to end this situation. Tell us how many people are and tell us when it will end this. Then, Madam Secretary of State, she well knows that, about a year ago, this House recommended to the Government by means of a resolution that, in support of persons with disabilities, the value for accumulating the disability benefit with work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit for inclusion with the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. Mr. Secretary of State, the diploma that approved this benefit refers to a portal. Tell us, Madam Secretary of State: will you or will you not support and review in the House what this approval is by this House and starred in by the CDS? [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u18	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u19	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally — and in the second round, there will be other questions — let us also tell you, with regard to the allocation of support products, whether the Secretary of State knows what dramatic situation many families are in with the cuts that have been made here, with particular reference to the condition of resources. Will you or will you not change that measure? Will you or will you not review it and move on to assign what is budgeted to the people who deserve and need such support? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u20	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Steps have been taken to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities, but there is still a long way to go to ensure a minimum level of dignity. On the social benefit for inclusion, the Secretary of State, in the second round, we will have concrete questions to ask you. But in this first round, we would like to address more general issues, particularly on employment. Combating poverty, access to employment, inclusive education for all, mobility and adapted sport are fundamental, but they are not yet a reality for all people with disabilities. With regard to employment, in the public and in the private sector, it is essential to create jobs for people with disabilities, because this is a mechanism of economic and social autonomy. In the last eight years, public services have opened competitions for 2577 vacancies for people with disabilities. But for these vacancies, only 46 people were admitted and the overwhelming majority of these admissions were made, particularly in the local authorities, in the municipal chambers and in the parish councils. In 2010, for example, of the 14 admitted, 10 were in local authorities. Therefore, in this regard, the central administration has much to do with ensuring compliance with the law on employment quotas for people with disabilities. And it's not by any chance that this happens. This happens, of course, because not opening competitions prevents these people from having access to them, but also for this other reason: it is that competitions which open, as they have very limited vacancies, do not allow the percentage of the quota to be applied. Therefore, in this regard, the Secretary of State, it is necessary to ensure the fulfilment of permanent needs in all services and also to ensure the access of persons with disabilities and the fulfilment of the public employment quota. But also with regard to the private sector, we have often heard companies « fill their mouths » with the so-called « social responsibility ». Only the so-called "social responsibility" for people with disabilities and the way companies see it is zero. The responsibility of companies in this area is zero with regard to job creation for people with disabilities. That is also why it is important, as has already been said, not only to implement the quota but also to take significant steps in guaranteeing employment with rights for people with disabilities. As for one last question that we wanted to put to you about architectural barriers, almost everything remains to be done. They are health centers, they are financial distributions, they are public transport, train and metro stations, where elevators do not work, in which there are a number of problems. But we wanted to report here a situation, which we still had the opportunity to meet, at a GNR post in Amarante, in which, not only for users but even for a GNR professional who is paraplegic, there is no access to 2. The floor of this post, where the comrades work, because there is no elevator. So in this matter, we still have a lot to do. Compliance with the rights of persons with disabilities and the end of all discrimination is not a favour that the State does to people. It is the obligation of the State to guarantee the rights of persons with disabilities. Therefore, the CFP will continue to engage in this fight because it is a fight for democracy. The fulfilment of all rights of persons with disabilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u22	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the fulfilment of all the rights of people with disabilities is a guarantee that democracy works in our country. And with regard to this matter, as with others, it works, but unfortunately it is with very poor health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u24	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and, in particular, the Secretary of State : In fact, when we speak of an inclusive society and the need to work for an inclusive society, which is a society for all, where everyone is taking place and where equality is promoted, we cannot work in this direction only based on principles and desires, which are certainly legitimate and very important but must be transformed into concrete practical conditions for these conditions to be materialized. In this regard, I would like to ask the Secretary of State a question on the problem of architectural barriers. In fact, there have been commitments for the State since 2006, with concrete deadlines of 10 years, to adapt buildings, facilities, public equipment to create accessibility conditions for all. The truth is, Madam Secretary of State, that the Government needed to launch Decree-Law No 125 / 2017 on the assumption that the 2006 Decree-Law was not actually complied with. So what did the government say? « We continue with the same desire and with the same principle through Decree-Law of 2017 ». And I ask: what practical conditions are being materialized so that this adaptation of public buildings, public equipment, public facilities, public roads is effectively carried out in order to be accessible to all? Mr. Secretary of State, a very specific case has already been mentioned here, that of the position of the GNR of Amarante, but there are many others, there are numerous public buildings that are not yet adapted. We can talk about, for example, the health center Fernão de Magalhães, in Coimbra, we can talk about the court of São Pedro do Sul, we can talk about, at the level of transport, of the Metro de Lisboa, which has constantly damaged elevators. Therefore, the Secretary of State, there is a huge set of public buildings where it is not yet visible the capacity for its adaptation in order to generate accessibility for all. So, what the Greens consider essential is that we work with organisation and for this we need to make public the lifting of public buildings that are not yet adapted. However, more than doing this survey, it is necessary to generate a plan for this adaptation to be carried out, together with an investment perspective, for all Portuguese to be able to understand the dimension of the intervention that still has to be made, of the investment that needs to be made and in what time, in terms of the elimination of architectural barriers, this country actually becomes in a truly inclusive country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u27	Again, the Government has the floor through the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Ana Sofia Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I will start from the point where I stopped recently. Let's talk about numbers and deadlines. As I told you recently, we met the goal of having the social benefit for inclusion available to be requested and paid in October 2017. We have prioritized the payment to people with the highest degree of disability, i.e. 80 % or more of disability, and we have done so with great effort of the services, since we have only recently managed to get the application ready to make the same payment, which is composed of four modules: demand, analysis, referral and processing. So we had the services to make payments manually so that our commitment could be fulfilled. Last February, we had the "deference" module completed and then we could begin to refer to the whole universe of people. We speak in a global universe of 26 000 people, in a total of 15 000 requests that are already examined, deferred or in payment. We asked, as is our obligation, to warn the people whose referrals began to be in greater volume from February that, even though they were receiving their referral notification, they should pay attention because the payment could only be made on the next day on May 10th — and be-CL - it will be for all the pending requirements - that is so that there will be no deceit and that no one thinks that it will receive before it actually goes. Finally, a few days ago we had the complete application, with the "processing" module ready. As for average deadlines for referral, we are talking about deadlines that in November were around 20 days, in December 19 days, in January 30 days, in February 60 days and in March 80 days. This gives an average deferral period of 66 days for each application. I have the clear notion that all new benefits face problems in their initial phase of implementation and I do not believe, but I leave this assessment to your consideration, that this deadline comes out of the expectations for what is the implementation of a completely new provision, which emerges from the paradigms and even provides for a citizenship aspect. The question concerning the alleged problems with legal representations was also raised here and the fact that many families were prevented from receiving benefits. We will call things by their real names: in October last year we passed 13 000 beneficiaries of life-long monthly allowance for the new benefit. Did you at that time realize any kind of complaint or request by the people who were not receiving the benefits? I didn't! And why? Because of these 13 000 beneficiaries, about 10 000 were already registered with social security as they could not receive their benefits directly and therefore necessarily have the support of a recipient. What happened? When we made this migration, automatically, by ending the payment by postal voucher, we began to issue cheque cards on behalf of the receiver or of those who support this task to the disabled person and, therefore, we never had situations of cessation or difficulties in receiving. And note that this direct payment to recipients was cautioned in Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 itself. A different situation has now happened with the social disability pension and with the transition to social benefits for inclusion, in which, indeed, in a universe of 50 000 beneficiaries, there were only 1000 persons identified with social security who had come to us to say: "The person with disabilities of my aggregate has no conditions to receive this benefit and I therefore lend him support in this function". As far as numbers are concerned, we have so far had some 5000 complaints by undue backlogs of postal vouchers transformed into cheque cards, of which payment means have already been re-issued to a total of 4000 recipients and the remaining 1000 claims are being processed. I will return to this issue, but I would now like to give some clarifications on the support products, just saying the following: the level of support products that we are financing is far beyond that which was the initial commitment made in order. Despite the fact that we planned, in particular in the area of social security, the overall amount of EUR 4 800 000 last year we carried out a total of EUR 10 800 000 in social security support products, which allowed us to clean up an endless stream of non-financed pending cases of 2014, 2015 and some 2016. With this, we were able to keep pending processes only of 2017 — anything like 1 / 3 of the 2017 processes. This means an increase of 170 % in relation to the value originally entered for social security support products and which has been recorded, precisely because in previous cases there has been no similar responsibility, in particular with the inclusion of values for support products in previous years of only around 4 million. Mr President, I request permission to speak to my colleague on Health to clarify the issues of support products in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u29	Of course. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Fernando Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues of the Government : First of all, I would like to point out that I agree with Mr Jorge Falcato that at the beginning of 2016 there were strong constraints on patients, the most vulnerable, to have access to support products, both on administrative and economic matters. I remind Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, because I think he no longer remembers the system that was used in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u31	There's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u32	The patient had to go to the doctor for a prescription, he had to get, in general, three budgets for most of the cases, he had to put the money forward — when he could! — and then I had to go back to the health centre to try to get the refund, which took a few weeks and was not 100 %. What was the final result of this? There was a huge limitation on access to support products. What did we do? We radically changed the process: the patient goes to the doctor, has a recipe, then goes to the pharmacy — any pharmacy in the country –, does not need budgets, does not need to forward money and, moreover, we passed the participation rate from 90 to 100 % in order to make support products free of charge. On the other hand, we have increased the number and type of support products. I remember that today there are more than 890 groups of devices included, contrary to what happened in the past. What have we achieved in terms of results, which is what is important and answering the honourable Member's question? Last year, spending on SNS ( National Health Service ), in this specific issue of support products, rose to more than EUR 18 million — I repeat, more than EUR 18 million! — a growth of more than 30 % compared to 2016. 30 percent! This expenditure was probably due to three questions: the shift from 90 to 100 %, the increase in medical applications and the increase in the number of patients included. There were many patients who, for administrative and economic reasons, had been denied access and, in the face of the facilitation of this process, eventually joined. According to a study conducted in the North region, the number of patients increased by 23 % in 2017 compared to 2016, which means that we increase accessibility to these products. Regarding the specific issue of support products used in the body for urine absorption and faeces, the diapers in 2017 spent more than EUR 1 million on these devices, an increase of more than 30 % compared to 2016. This means, above all, more accessibility. In short, in this context of technical aid we have a story to tell: in these two years, we have increased the number of patients covered, we have increased the number of devices covered, we have increased the participation rate, we have simplified the whole process so that we can make this area more fair, more supportive and have a more inclusive SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u33	We are thus entering the second round of this debate in order to allow further requests for clarification, and I ask the services that update the times in the electronic framework. You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u34	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : We have listened more carefully to the government talking about the constraints of social inclusion and I would like to say to you, the Secretary of State, that the obligation of the Government is, of course, to caution and think ahead of all matters that may arise with the application of a new provision, in order to minimize these situations. That, in fact, I don't think it happened. Mr Secretary of State, the social provision of inclusion has, of course, a citizenship component and exists to strengthen rights, but it is to do so in conjunction with the application of the condition of resources in support products. In other words, in conjunction with the condition of resources in support products, it is contradictory because, on the one hand, they receive more income but on the other hand — and this is an exclusion factor — these incomes can be a condition for the allocation of financing of support products. This is contradictory and our question is exactly this: there can be no contradictions in disability policies. Mr. Secretary of State, the importance of the national strategy for disability is very relevant because it has to do with the definition of concrete, concerted and cross-cutting policies that have a unique vision in all ministries in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u36	I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to move forward with the national strategy for disability and I would like to ask you a number of questions because I have heard you publicly talk about unfair measures. For example, the Secretary of State intends to hire gestal-language interpreters in the National Health Service. How many, indeed, have you done, Secretary of State? I also heard her say that she intended to assign more advantageous tax measures to people with disabilities. Mr. Secretary of State, what have we actually done about this? Then I also heard her speak in the revision and regulation of the Labour Code with a view to promoting more justice at work for people with disabilities, but, Madam Secretary of State, we do not know anything about this. The Green Paper has also been discussed here, and therefore the PSD Parliamentary Group urged it to define a strategic orientation, with defined goals and time-bound objectives, for a concerted action by the Government and one in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u37	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u38	Mr President, Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities and others. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the Left Block for the initiative of the agenda of this debate, because, if there were no other reason, the fact that we can hear today, from the left to the right, from the Left Block to the CDS, passing through the Portuguese Communist Party, the PSD and the Green Party, the compliments to those who have been the policies implemented by the Government would already be sufficient reason for the scheduling of this debate. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Therefore, we can say with absolute consensus that all parties present in this House recognise the good work done by the Government in the area of inclusion of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u40	Each one is free to interpret whatever you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u41	But there is a second good reason, taking in the words of Mr Jorge Falcato: this is the time to think about what has been done, and to think about what has been done means, or implies, in addition to what is the social benefit for inclusion, which has already been discussed, in addition to what is the model of support for independent life, which has already been mentioned, that this government has already made the increase of the allowance for assistance from third parties and the increase of the family allowance for people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, this is the time to also make a reminder about the past, although a different stance is highlighted, mainly by the parties to the right, in that the Portuguese were no longer used to having a government that effectively met those who were their commitments. [[All right!]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u42	And this is perhaps a paradigmatic matter at that level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also say Mr Jorge Falcato, and well, that it is time to think about what has been done, but it is also time to move on to what is missing. I would like to point out the transparent way, the clear way in which the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities and the Under-Secretary of State and Health have explained the difficulties that some measures which are still being implemented, precisely due to their initial phase of implementation, but also the clear way in which they have said what measures, which strategies have to continue to move forward in this same way. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that there is a significant conclusion to be drawn from this debate, which is a clear idea: the Socialist Party knows what it has done, the Socialist Party knows where it wants to walk and, above all, all parties want to move forward in this matter, but there is no one who wants to move forward more than the Socialist Party. We all want to move forward — it may be to the same extent, but no more, than the Socialist Party — and therefore the Government is pleased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u43	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u44	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming the disabled again, as well as the caregivers and caregivers who are attending this debate. Today, we look forward to taking an important step down to their committee, to discuss the speciality of the proposal for the creation of a caregiver's status, and we also hope to be able to count on the Government's commitment to implement the status of the informal caregiver. Mrs. Members of the Government, I would like to speak specifically in this debate about the system of allocation of support products, which has already been addressed. It is true that, at the level of social security, there was a recovery of the delays that existed, but the deadlines are still not met—particularly, the 60-day deadline, which was the expected deadline for these proceedings, is largely exceeded. In the area of health, we recognize that there was a deburocratization of the process in relation to what was in the time of the previous government, of the right—the deburocratization, in fact, that was a requirement of the movements of persons with disabilities and a requirement of the Left Block, which supported this measure and facilitated access—but there are still strong problems. One example is that of external catheters, or pediatric ostomy products, the bags for children who are ostomized, who should be being paid, because they are part of the list of support products, but which, after that, did not enter the list of medical devices that are shared. So they are in limbo and, for example, there are families who spend 45 €/ month on these catheters, which are not shared. The second problem, which has already been mentioned, is that of the diapers. The Decree-Law on Support Products is very clear: in its Article 5. , says the allocation is made « free of charge and universal». Now, we know that it was necessary to have either the supplement for dependence or the multi-use attestation in order to be able to receive the refund of what is spent on these support products. At present, it is necessary to have the multi-use attestation and, by a circular, which does not have the same value as a decree-law, it is now demanding the condition of resources, i.e. economic insufficiency. Not only did people who had the supplement for dependency and did not have the multi-use certificate no longer have access to such persons as those who had the multi-use certificate are asked to also have the condition of resources, which also have the condition of economic insufficiency. We understand, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, that it is not possible for a circular to overlap with a decree-law. Decree-Law says the products are universally accessible to those who have those conditions and we cannot have a circular that makes a creative interpretation and limits the scope of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u46	We also do not understand how it is possible that there may be support products which, being on the list of support products — and I spoke about the case of ostomized children — may not then be shared because they are not on the list of medical devices subject to participation. Mrs. Members of the Government, we want these two issues to be resolved and we want there to be a government commitment to solve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u48	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u49	I conclude with this note, Mr President: we are still waiting for the Government to be able to say something about the questions asked by Mr Jorge Falcato regarding the multi-use attestation and regulation of employment quotas for disabled people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u50	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believed it was important to hold this debate for people, particularly for people with disabilities and their families. Well, we heard from the Socialist Party that this debate was worth it because there was praise to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u52	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u53	When we were waiting for this debate to be good to find the answers that people need, the government says that they want to hear themselves and want a praiseworthy attitude. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, on the part of the Ministry of Health we are already used to saying that it is always all right: they say that there are no monkeys in hospitals, that there is no postponement of consultations, that there is no damaged service and also that — imagine! — it is a lie that people feel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u54	It was all right in front of me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u55	The truth is, with the transition to the Ministry of Health from the system of allocation of support products, things have worsened, and that is the perception that people have. And the Secretary of State did not answer a very simple question: whether or not it is true that, on government initiative, this system of allocation of support products has started to implement a resource condition when it is not in law. I would like Mr. Secretary of State to answer a matter as clear as this, rather than be in a laudatory attitude, as if we were just looking at the mirror of the Government, which is the Socialist Party. That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u56	Be serious! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u57	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the theory of the wall, which tells us that when we get to the government and the things that matter, we have a wall. This has always been the experience of the CDS, which, when presented a set of recommendations to the Government two years ago, deserved the opposition of the Socialist Party to almost all. However, a large number of recommendations have been adopted and the fact is that, in response to these recommendations, the Government has not yet implemented anything. On the other hand, I ask the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities whether or not she will change the income limit to accumulate with the social benefit for inclusion, which was also the subject of a recommendation from this House. It is almost 20 recommendations that have been adopted, for which we expect the government more than one wall, not because of the government, not because of the mirror of the Government, which is the Socialist Party, but because of people with disabilities, who expect that response. And we are all committed to ensuring this response, regardless of attitudes and rhetoric of the left or right, of the past or the future. What we are interested in, and I believe everyone is interested in, is to respond to this appeal from people, families and entities who live in this reality every day. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u58	Mr President, thank you very much for the absolutely scrupulous fulfillment of time. You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : We note that the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities has not addressed or even answered the questions put by my comrades Rita Rato and Heloísa Apolónia on employment and barriers issues. These are not minor issues and should be answered by the Government. But, Madam Secretary of State, the intervention we are now making is aimed at addressing the problem of social benefit for inclusion. The CFP argues that social provision for inclusion should be an instrument for deepening the social protection of people with disabilities and cannot mean less social protection. The intervention of the CFP throughout this discussion process, and also at the heart of the State budget, allowed the introduction of changes to the social benefit for inclusion which resulted in significant advances: it is the case that the extension of the provision, in order to cover persons with disabilities already at the age of reform, the establishment of the re-evaluation in 2018 of the limits of the accumulation of the performance of work, the setting of a date for entry into force, even in 2019, of the phase relating to support for children and young people with disabilities. The doors were opened to creating a response for people with disabilities currently excluded from access to benefits, such as those who acquire or develop a disability after 55 years of age. But we also insist on the need to find a solution for people with a disability of less than 60 %, but whose disability is also limited, a proposal which has not been accepted by the government, but of which the CFP will not give up. The Secretary of State has come to the knowledge of the CFP, contrary to what she said, problems and difficulties in access to social benefits for inclusion, with delays in the deferral of requests and in the start of payment of the benefit. In addition, those who automatically transferred to social benefits for inclusion have moved from a reality of payment of benefits to 14 months to a reality of payment of benefits to 12 months, a situation that the CFP signaled in good time. For those who have received supplements paid to 14 months, such as the extraordinary complement of solidarity, this may in some cases result in a decrease in annual income. We have had specific cases of people who, in fact, moved to this new benefit, have received less annually. We have already addressed a question to the Government, but we would like to see this situation clarified today, since we consider it unacceptable. There is another problem: the payment of social benefits for check inclusion has brought great difficulties to many beneficiaries, since it has been required, in situations where the beneficiary cannot sign, a document recognised as notary for the check to be paid, which means more charges and difficulties. In addition, when not paid via a postal voucher, the beneficiary is required to have a bank account. Now, if no one should be required to hold a bank account, this circumstance still raises problems that, in many cases, parents, guardians or curators have to hand over an act of incapacity or prohibition in order to be able to receive the benefit. It is important to clarify these situations and, above all, to find concrete solutions so that this provision does not mean more costs for people with disabilities and their families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u61	Mr President, Mr Luís Soares of the PS, I would like to say that the Greens are not here to praise the government, they are here to solve problems, in this particular case the problems of people with disabilities. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities and Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, given that they both had the opportunity to respond, the Greens regret that a word has not been said on a very relevant issue that we have raised here, which is related to the matter of architectural barriers. If I ask the Government how many public buildings are to be adapted, which is the plan for this adaptation and what the investment required, I very likely cannot answer. But I would like to hear something about the extent of this concern for us, too, that we can translate it into concrete work here and help the government solve what is fundamental to people, because that is what we are concerned about. On the other hand, Mrs. Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities and Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, a resolution was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, resolution No. 2014 / 2017, on the subject of teaching Portuguese gestal language in schools for a greater dimension, including for hearing students, so that communication links between everyone in our society could be strengthened. I would like to know what is being done for the implementation and implementation of this resolution, just as I would like to know what is being done to ensure a set of Portuguese-language interpreters to be able to assist at the level of the National Health Service ( SNS ). It is therefore this practical dimension that the Greens would like to see answered here. Finally, in our view, the subject of work is crucial. When we talk about people with disabilities, we talk about people who in fact — in fact, this is the reality — have a lot more difficulty in integrating them into the labour market, which is why it is essential to establish positive discrimination so that equality is found. This is why, for example, this measure of the 5 % share at the level of public employment has been created. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this quota is not being met!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u62	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. I would therefore like to know what the government considers essential for this quota to be actually met, because otherwise we cannot talk about autonomy or guarantee forms of subsistence for these people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u64	Mrs. Members, the Government has informed the Bureau that it intends to make the final intervention of the second round and the related closure intervention, so I ask the services to make this change within the framework of the times. He then spoke for an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Fernando Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues from the Government : First of all, I would like to begin by replying again to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia on the theoretical and praiseworthy issues. I recall once again that in 2015, for many products, the patients had to get three budgets, they had to forward the money to that end when many did not have them, they had to return to the health centres to try to get the reimbursement of those funds, and many of them ended up paying 10% of the amount they were in question. All this has changed, and it has a direct impact on people. So while you're talking about theoretical issues, I'm talking about practical and real issues. at this time, there was increased accessibility, simplification of the processes, and the economic barriers that prevented this access were removed. In reply to the questions put by Mr José Moura Soeiro, it is worth stressing and recognizing that indeed many of these barriers have been reduced from an administrative point of view, from a bureaucratic point of view and from an economic point of view. This has had a direct impact, which we can see, on the matter of expenditure. Again, I repeat, last year, the government, within the SNS, spent EUR 18 million, an increase of more than 30 % compared to 2016. It means that more people had access and that this was fundamental to bringing equity to the system. A second question which Mr Moura Soeiro raised was that, eventually, some products in the area of pediatrics are not being shared, which Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has already referred to within the framework of the Parliamentary Committee on Health. I only remember that the legal system prevents companies themselves from proposing this inclusion to Infarmed because each of these products must be economically assessed by Infarmed in accordance with the law. We have suggested, stimulated and sensitized companies that have the support products that submit them to Infarmed, as many others have already done, and we are totally open at any time to assess and include — I repeat, include! We do not want, even more within the framework of pediatrics, that there is no barrier, but now the law obliges companies to submit the proceedings to Infarmed. Therefore, all of us can also help raise the awareness of companies to do so. On the last question, on products used in the body for urine absorption and faeces, we have no prejudice or any objective to limit access to these products, and I come back again to say that, only in the case of diapers last year, expenditure was more than one million euros, which represents more than 30 % increase compared to 2016. We are open to this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I take due note of the issues that have been raised here, and I think it is worth re-evaluating the process in this area, because it is fair and clear that it is worth re-considering so that, in the end, we have a system that is more equitable and more inclusive for people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If Mr President will allow, I will turn the floor to my colleague Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u66	Of course, Mr. Secretary of State. In the closing period, Mrs. Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Ana Sofia Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, dear colleagues : I will reply to everything, as long as the time comes for it — I would like to leave this note. On the issue of delays, Mr. Jorge Machado, I do not think you heard what I said. We are clearly assuming that there are situations in which there is still no payment. We can ensure that most of the disability situations of 80 % or more are already paying. We can ensure that many of the situations of 60 % to 80 % of disability are already being released with referral communication and payment communication in May. What we cannot refuse, and we do not refuse, is that there was indeed a period when people with 60 % to 80 % disability required the PSI ( Social Benefit for Inclusion) in October and will receive it in May. We can't answer that, and we've already explained why. Turning to the question of alleged legal representations, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to anticipate what is possible. In fact, we were able to anticipate that there was a difficulty regarding direct payment to the holder or his legal representative in situations where there were formally identified recipients in social security, and for these there were no problems. There were problems with those who never came to identify themselves as recipients of social security, and we cannot foresee that people will, on their own initiative, be putting up postal vouchers. How did we try to get around this situation? First, we have already made new communication, a new internal circular to all social security services, accompanied by FAQs, which seeks to clarify each of the issues that are, as a rule, raised to us on this matter. We have also made a new notification to all the applicants of the PSI, clarifying what measures they have at their disposal to start receiving the new benefit in order to ensure that these situations are taken into account. We invited the people, in transition, so that no one would be able to receive their benefits—and we did this already in January—to come to social security to sign a declaration, under a commitment of honor, on how a person with disabilities is in charge. This is being done since January, from there the 4000 remissions in 5000 requests, making the recipient immediately receive the benefit and there was a remission of all the cheque cards that could not be raised. Finally, as a definitive solution, what did we advise people and said it was possible to do? It would be to exhaust all the options that exist before resorting to the final solution of a legal representation action. First, see the possibility of opening bank accounts on the part of persons with disabilities who can do so. I must say that, two days ago, I met with a representative association of many people with disabilities who are carrying out this process and that together with the government, I am doing a sensitizing work with the banks, in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Trade, and many of these situations are being resolved directly through the opening of bank accounts by the holder, which so far did not exist, or through the opening of accounts in title. We have also created and made available a procura minute so that, in cases where this is possible, when it comes to the formation and externalization of the will of the disabled person, it is the one, through the notary, to designate his or her recipient, the person who supports him in the management of his or her performance and only at the last instance, and when the solution cannot be another, to use the legal representation regime. However, we are advising the people who have already made use of this mechanism and have recourse to the transitional mechanism that, until 30 September, this payment may be made to your recipient with the commitment that the deadline may be extended until the House approves the change to the disability regime and that we have a new regime for re-evaluation of the most flexible disability, more adapted to the individual in particular and that it does not cut the right as regards the current figures of prohibition and disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u69	We understand that this was a way of giving people with disabilities back the power and rights over their own lives, and many were the cases in which disabled people came with us to identify themselves as recipients, which had not happened so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u70	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u71	We also believe that in cases where such payment cannot be made directly to the holder, it is not necessary to fear the future regime of legal representations, which will work in a more accompanied follow-up logic, in the sense that there is someone to accompany and define whether or not the person needs such follow-up. I will then try to answer the other questions that have been raised. Mrs Sandra Pereira, you know that talking about employment numbers of disabled people is not simply looking at the statistics of IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institution) and concluding that things were good or that they were wonderful because certain numbers were pointed out. Indeed, the numbers here are still good, but we must not forget that these numbers are mostly composed of employment contracts and insertion, which are not the solution we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u73	at this time, we have a working group to function, which aims to carry out the review, for greater operationalization of the public employment quotas of Decree-Law No 29/2001. We know that this mechanism has fallen considerably with the reductions in public sector contracts. Contrary to what the honourable Member says, it is not only a matter of applying the law with regard to Article 48. that of the basic inclusion law, because it is said that 5 % of the quotas must be met by persons with disabilities in the private sector is insufficient. This article has to be regulated, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u74	That's what we propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u75	That is what we are doing and which, by chance, has not been done before. But it is not worth just creating in the law and saying that it has to be 5 %; it is necessary to create mechanisms, structures that mediate between the disabled person and the entrepreneur, who often does not even know how he can hire these people and whom he can resort to in terms of aid. These services are therefore being created to make the employability of people with disabilities an increasingly possible reality. On the issue of accessibility, which was put by several Members, I wanted to say that when we adopted Decree-Law No 125 / 2017 we did so for two reasons: because we had very good legislation from the point of view of the technical standards to be applied and because we had inoperative legislation, in so far as it conferred supervisory powers on some entities that refused them altogether. What we did was adjust the powers of law enforcement, not giving in to pressures to increase the period of adaptation of spaces and equipment. at this time, on the one hand, we are setting up committees that accompany the issue of accessibility in different ministries and, on the other hand, we are creating, at the National Institute for Rehabilitation (INR) itself, with more human resources and more financial means, a team that can once and for all carry out this monitoring and the consequent application of fines when it takes place. Finally, I am going back to Mrs Sandra Pereira. Mrs Deputy, I can only conclude that you are distracted on this question of tax benefits. In last year's budget there was an increase in the deductions of families with disabled descendants and ascendants for an amount of €1187, which benefited a total of 22 000 family aggregates and had an impact of €2600 million ; also in last year's budget there was an increase in the amount of deduction to the collection of non-collectible income of persons with disabilities from 10 to 15 %. Can we do more? Obviously we can, but saying that we haven't done anything seems a little too much. I conclude my message today, reiterating the request that the correct message be spread and that there is no further noise around the two main issues that have been discussed here today. First of all, were there any delays? Yes, there were, but at this time, they are mostly overcome, and here we assume the commitment that, until May, all people are receiving their Social Benefit for Inclusion. Secondly, as far as legal representation is concerned, we ask families to go to the social security balconies to collect information, sign statements, receive benefits by September 30 and seek to empower people with disabilities more. It is easy to look at people with disabilities from the point of view that they are not capable. It is challenging to recognize their capacity and recognize that they may have bank accounts, that they may, in many situations, issue claims to appoint their own supporters or caregivers and that only ultimately, if they talk about legal representation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u76	For a final intervention, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There's a noise in the room that's unacceptable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u78	You're right, sir. I'm asking the ladies. Members who help restore the conditions for the speaker to be heard and to avoid partial meetings in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u79	Mr. President, the importance of inclusion policies is also to respect the debate on inclusion policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u80	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for you to feel and expect that, with your diligence, this will take place. You want to use the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u81	Mr President, then continuing the intervention, I wanted to record three points of the conclusion of the Secretary of State : the first on representation ; the second on time for the payment of the PSI ( Social Benefit for Inclusion ) ; the third on a lack of reply, which leaves us some concern. This debate has already been worth knowing, first of all, that until May, all the problems of implementation of the Social Benefit for Inclusion will be solved. But we cannot ignore that there has been an alarm and that this alarm has not yet been duly exceeded in this sector. Why? Because the bureaucracy introduced in this process ended up undermining the impact of a good measure, and that the Left Block supported. This is a lesson we must draw for the future. The second aspect that is on the table has to do with the idea of a strategy and the content of this strategy for the inclusion of people with disabilities. If we look at the public debate, there is information that does not beat each other. Even now the Secretary of State said that only ultimately should the question of the legal representation of persons with disabilities be equalized. This statement is exactly in accordance with what is written in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. However, it is contrary to the information that social security itself transmitted to people at the beginning of the process for the allocation of the Social Benefit for Inclusion and, in particular, when people, through social security or through banking entities, wanted to have access to what was due them, to the right they were recognized in the law. This is an aspect that demonstrates the difficulty in understanding a strategy. And for that, we don't have to invent anything new. I believe that everyone who accompanies this area knows that the strategy is internationally defined. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a strategy and its implementation should be the first national design, and that is why we beat us, that is why the Left Block fights. On the issues of representation, there is a fundamental aspect to be taken into account: that is, officially—it is not in statements by government members, up to this debate—the answer people who address social security or a banking entity to solve this problem, in practice, is always that of representation, and that cannot happen. We understand that the government has already made public statements pointing out solutions — do so right now — but this must be the official response of social security to banking institutions, and that is a fundamental step. As far as supporting products are concerned, we note the availability of the Government here on two fundamental issues: either in paediatric products or even in the revision of existing materials, such as the issue of diapers. However, it is important to speed up this process, because every day that passes, these people are denied rights that are underpinned by the law. And once again, when it comes to the recognition of new products, it cannot be the winning bureaucracy, it must be the people's rights to win this fight. This is a step in which we consider that the government can and should be proactive. from the Left Block, has all support in this regard. Mr President, I cannot help but answer the question raised by the right in this debate, which has to do with employment policies for disabled people and the issue of quotas, both for public and private enterprises. I just wanted to say that there is clearly hypocrisy on the right in this matter. Who condemned unemployment to a considerable part of the country, made it know that it was who was in a fragile situation that was first affected and, in this particular case, people with disabilities were the first affected. The same happened in public employment, because those who established two-way rules for an entry were conditional on access to public law and the rules that such access had determined, such as access for persons with disabilities. For this reason, the right has had an active policy to prevent the emancipation of people with disabilities with regard to access to public employment and private employment. That hypocrisy cannot be made clear. Finally, with a key note from the Left Block for this debate. We know that from a political point of view, things tend to be put in these terms, but this debate is not an ultimatum to the government, this debate is not a blackmail to the government, this debate is a warning, an alert to the middle of the way. Two years have passed since the beginning of the mandate of this government, two years have passed since this political solution was found, and these two years the hope in this sector is immense, until today we have this sector represented in the highest instances through Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Jorge Falcato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u82	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u83	In conclusion, Mr President, it is necessary to take steps to ensure that this hope is realized, so that it is materialised in concrete policies, and for that reason they have all the availability of the Left Block, in cooperation, not in competition. We do not want to miss this hope and we are here to take this path. We wish to do so together with the government and hope to all be successful. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has made an effort not to interrupt the speaker, but I cannot fail to point out that the Chamber is not a place for long back councils to the Bureau or backs to the speaker who uses the word. I therefore ask for the collaboration and understanding of all. At the end of the debate that took place, I say goodbye to the honourable Members. Members of the Government. We will continue our work, which will continue as follows: we have two more points on which grid D will be used, and, according to the deliberations of the Conference of Leaders, the legislative votes will take place at the end, after the discussion of these two points has been completed. We therefore move on to the next point, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1319 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Discontamination of soils and aquifers from the Beach of Victory ( PSD ), 1270 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote total decontamination of the third island ( PS ), 1320 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and repair of environmental damage resulting from foreign military activity on the Third Island ( BE ), 1326 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decontamination and recovery of areas affected by the activity of the United States Air Force at the Lajes Base, on the Third Island ( The Greens ), 1336 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repair of environmental damage caused by U.S. military forces stationed at Lajes Base ( CDS-PP ) and 1417 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The effective identification and rehabilitation of sites contaminated on the third island by the military presence of the United States of America ( PAN ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Six initiatives on soil decontamination and aquifers from Victoria Beach are under discussion today. This means an effective recognition of the problem and this is the second time in this Parliament a set of initiatives is presented for this purpose. This also means that the Government has not complied with the first recommendations. However, in the face of the alarm that PS so much announces—because the PS speaks in alarmism not to speak in decontamination, not to speak in essence— before the urgency of sussing the Portuguese and, in particular, third parties, before speculation of international news that they attack the Third Island, before the urgency of clarifying several doubts associated with contamination, before all this, the Government is lacking in this debate, the government is simply saying that it has nothing to do with this. A scary disinterest! I see, at the time counter, that the government has time to talk, but has chosen to be absent so far. at this moment, the government would have to be here in the House, in front of the Members, saying when the work begins for total decontamination. The government, with this flight attitude, is increasing alarmism and creating more speculation about contamination. There is only one way to end speculative news and alarmism: it is to do what has not been done so far, it is to decontaminate completely. The government cannot continue off. We find that irresponsibility and negligence continue with the Azorians. In addition, and as it decontaminates, an international entity should undertake a new study and follow up the process, as the LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ), in the said confidential report, advises not to decontaminate certain areas until it is known that I use it to give them a position contrary to even the opinions of the Regional Government. But if the government lacks responsibility, it will have to be the PS to say when the work for total decontamination starts, it will have to be the PS to present the plan, the schedule and the amounts, today, and without delay. The PS will talk next, and that's what we expect. In fact, that's what the Regional Government wants to know, that's what the City Hall of Victoria Beach wants to know, that's what the outsiders want to know, and that's what this plenary wants to know. If you do not, you will be directly, in communion with the government, the great responsible for everything negative that happens to the economy of the Third Island and the Azores. There is no need for more words, more advertising or more debates, only action, only decontamination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u86	You now have the floor to present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two days ago, I expressed here, in this House, my concern about the news that had been made public and that caused deep alarm in the population. I expressed my concern at the way this file was being conducted in this House, which has given voice and amplified uncertainties. In addition to this concern, I spoke of facts, facts about radioactivity, facts about the quality of water in the public supply network, facts about the incidence of oncological diseases, technical facts and scientifically proven by entities of recognised suitability. What is certain is that, despite my constant warning of the need for rigour in the treatment of all data on this subject, more news is being said that refer to improper water for human consumption on the Third Island which, in the case, once again, is not referring to water from the network for public supply. I can even give the benefit of the doubt that whoever feeds this news does not do so by political confrontation, but by considering that it is truly helping Third and Azores. In the last few weeks, I have tried to prove that this was not the case and that this was, in fact, a double penalty for the island. Unfortunately, we couldn't pass this message and the news goes on. In a conscious way, I will no longer feed this issue in this House that is seriously damaging the Third Island and the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I am going to do is work to ensure effective action by the Government of the Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is urgent that the Government of the Republic fulfil the commitment it has made to the Third and the Azores ; it calls for the rapid progress and implementation of this decontamination process ; it calls for the Government of the Republic to clear all doubts and present a demanding and feasible timetable. So I am saying again, as I did 2 days ago and as we demand in our draft resolution here today under discussion: the clean-up and decontamination actions must be strengthened. There can be no doubt about places whose pattern of contamination is or is not fully known or not conclusively known. Public safety and health, but also environmental protection and quality, must be based on decontamination actions. The actions of the Government of the Republic must be visible, this must be a transparent and public process which follows a demanding but feasible timetable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, my contribution is to make everything demand that the Government of the Republic achieve, with the greatest speed, what it has committed itself to, on the basis of the health and safety of third parties, the protection and environmental quality of our land. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u88	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block also presents a draft resolution, which recommends to the Government the identification and repair of environmental damage resulting from military activity on the Third Island. It is also a legislative initiative presented in the Assembly of the Republic on a very serious subject which requires an urgent solution by those responsible, along with many other similar initiatives that we have presented in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. No one can ever hide the facts and the evidence anymore. Due to the presence of U.S. troops at the Lajes Base since World War II, there is contamination of soils and aquifers by hydrocarbons and heavy toxic metals that are causing serious damage to the agriculture and health of the Azorians, particularly the inhabitants of the Third Island. Foreign military activity at the service of NATO and the warlords of America and Europe over several decades and even after the end of the Cold War is causing a very heavy price for the Azores and the Country. There are already several scientific studies and reports confirming the evidence. The report from the National Civil Engineering Laboratory to the Government, allegedly confidential, identifies sources of contamination by lead from third floor soils and the strong possibility that, through the basement, the contaminant material will spread to the aquifers, leading to a high risk to public health if it contaminates water catchment points. The contamination by hydrocarbons and heavy metals in Victoria Beach has to do with storage, spills, neglect, intentional leaks and landfills of fuel, lead additives and others in the U.S. military infrastructures at the Lajes Base. In the above-mentioned LNEC report, more precisely on pages 21, 22, 27 to 31 and 101, we have suspected sites of contamination, or already contaminated, such as the locations Cabrito Tank Area, Main Gate Area, South Tank Farm, Fontainhas or the Pico Celeiro, among others. In addition to gasoline and diesel, there is too much concentration of lead, cobalt, copper, barium, mercury and zinc. Also the hydrological study commissioned by the Americans to a German company in 2005 confirms the existence of scattered chemical sludges since the 1980s and which could have contaminated wells located just 600 m away. More recently, another report commissioned by USAFE, the American Air Force in Europe, relates for the first time the contamination of the Lajes Base soils with the risk of cancer six times higher than normal. This is a report hidden for 12 years and which was clearly known to all — regional governments and governments of the Republic. So the PSD/CDS government knew about this and did nothing? Oh, my God! What about the PS government? Oh, my God! Idem, idem, spires, spires? Oh, my God! Unacceptable shame! Yesterday we were aware of another report produced by the U.S. Base authorities to which an information agency had access and which reveals the contamination of water for human consumption on the Third Island, in this case at the Lajes Base. As if this were not enough, we have the possible radioactive contamination of various areas of the Victorian Beach and Heroism Angra, according to several independent studies. The draft resolution of the Left Block recommends that the Government identify environmental damage, including the known and potential contamination of the basal aquifer originating in the fuel tanks and abandoned pipelines; the removal of soil contaminated with lead and the conduct of polling meshes, soil decontamination and inactivation of the water uptake downstream and treatment by nanofiltration and inverse osmosis; the radiological study for the identification of alpha particles, x-rays and gamma to the soil surface and in uninterventioned areas, conditioning the use of soil if parameters are found outside the normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u90	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. It also recommends the study of the environmental impact on public health and the adoption of appropriate health strategies, with individual and collective protection measures to support populations, accompanied by LNEC and Ricardo Jorge Institute and, finally, that the United States of America, as polluters, assume the costs resulting from the impacts on public health and the environment and from the replacement of the previous environmental situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u92	To present the Green draft resolution, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present today to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution aimed at decontamination and recovery of areas affected by the activity of the United States Air Force at Lajes Base, in the Third Island. It is in this sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing four very specific proposals for approval to the other parliamentary committees. The first proposal is to pressure the Government to develop the necessary efforts to identify all sites that are still contaminated as a result of the United States Air Force's military activity on the third island, measuring the degree of contamination, involving national and regional authorities and also empowering and involving the United States Government of America. Secondly, we propose that the Government be pressured to establish an effective plan for decontamination, recovery and regeneration of contaminated areas and aquifers, involving all stakeholders and being costed according to the degree of responsibility of each party involved. A third aspect to pressure the Government is to ensure the implementation of a continuous monitoring plan for soil and aquifer contamination for at least 10 years, ensuring that values will remain below the limits dangerous to human health and the environment or that decontamination mechanisms are immediately activated when values above the permit are detected. Finally, and fourthly, we propose that the Government be pressured to make public both the results of the analyses and identification of contaminated areas, as well as action plans, recovery and progress. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that, as is public knowledge, the activity of the Lajes Base has determined the construction of a set of structures and infrastructures that over the years have been pouring the most diverse substances into the soil and aquifers, accumulating and contaminating, with different degrees of danger, both soils as well as water and water. There are numerous studies conducted, notably by LNEC and the United States Air Force itself, 2009, 2012, 2015, 2016, among so many others that we could focus on, which reveal the contamination of both soils and aquifers, and in particular 35 sites contaminated with hydrocarbons, heavy metals, radioactive substances on the Third Island. In 2012 the United States Air Force will have started work on decontamination of aquifers and land on the Beach of Victory, but that apparently were not exhaustive. A programme to rehabilitate and improve the environmental situation was also implemented, involving water supply holes in the city hall of Praia da Vitoria, mainly with the involvement of the city's own chamber, which took on the extraordinary monitoring of the waters to ensure that they remained their own for human consumption. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is in Victoria Beach an environmental liability with effective impact on public health and that has shown, if I may express, some effective disillusion by successive governments for the resolution of the matter. It is precisely in this sense, in order to push this responsibility in relation to a situation that clearly implies the quality of life of the populations, with environmental parameters and with public health and, therefore, with the security of the territory and populations, which The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic this proposal, which we hope to see approved by the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u94	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents a project for the repair of environmental damage caused by the presence of U.S. military forces on the Third Island. What we want is for the problem to be solved, giving priority to what should be put as a priority: the defense of the third island population, the defence of people, the precautionary principle, environmental recovery. We must leave ourselves to political games or even ideological games of those who think this is not a problem to solve the population of the Third, that this is not a problem to resolve on the island, which is a great pretext or to campaign internally in the autonomous region or to campaign between the regional government and the Government of the Republic, if the Government of the Republic is a different color from the regional government, because if it is the same they are already absent from doing or, more to the left, to resurrect old complexes and come again to talk about the Cold War and all the skeletons that have in the cupboard about it. For us, by the CDS, the question is very simple. The discussion of the American presence in the Third is not at issue here the relationship of the Autonomous Region of the Azores with the United States of America, which is a very important relationship, not only for the Azori communities that reside in the United States of America, but also for the recognition of many years and many occasions when the relationship between Portugal and the United States and, specifically, between the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the United States, was very important at decisive times. That's not what's at stake, what's at stake is whether there's risks, and there's. Pollution is already proven, from the very outset, by the American forces themselves who recognized it in 2005 and by the LNEC, who then verified it. There are operations, however, that have not had enough effect, there is evidence that there are still risks. Therefore, we have not been here to discuss whether we should hide the risks, for example, to the public water network or to the health risks. If there are risks, should we pretend they don't exist? Oh, my God! Should we ignore them? Or should we do what is environmentally correct, which is following the precautionary principle? If there can be risks, if there is data indicating that these risks can be real, we must follow and do this. from our point of view, there is something that is very relevant and that is the centre of our draft resolution. The Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions is clear: it must be the Republic to assume responsibility and, assuming responsibility and making reparation, of course with the support of the CDS, it must require in this case the United States of America due compensation for what is done. Now, what cannot happen is the Government of the Republic to escape its responsibility. If, at the moment, what is needed to repair the situation and to give peace to the population of the Third Island is not done, it is because the Government of the Republic has failed to fulfil its obligation, in accordance with the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions. Therefore, being completely open and approving all other draft resolutions, we believe that the fundamental right now is what is in the CDS project, that the Government of the Republic fulfils its obligation towards the Azores, fulfils its obligation towards the Third Island and fulfils its obligation towards the population of the region and the island in particular. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u96	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The heavy environmental damage caused by American military presence and activity at the Lajes Base is unequivocal. We are talking about decades of soil and aquifer contamination, resulting from storage, spills, intentional or negligent clearances and fuel landfills, which reveal extraordinarily high values of dioxins, acids, hydrocarbons, lead and other toxic, chemical and heavy metals. Some of these pollutants exceed the permitted legal ceilings thousands of times. The high levels of radioactive contamination have also been recorded by several studies and analyses. The City Council of Victoria is currently presenting a regional cancer index of about 20 %, when it represents only 8 % of the Azores population. in these decades, there has never been a firm and urgent action by successive regional and national governments to protect the populations and ecosystems of the third island. By 2005, the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ( LNEC) had identified 35 contaminated sites. There was never an urgent need to speak or even solve public health and safety issues that are also issues of environmental protection and quality. Regardless of this situation and considering the existing danger to public health and the environment, the Portuguese State has the responsibility to act and make every effort to ensure that contaminated sites on the third island are subject to rapid and effective decontamination. The mechanisms to decontaminate all affected areas should therefore be implemented and the financial responsibilities of decontamination actions should be imputed to the pollutant, i.e. the United States of America. When sending the bill to the Americans and demanding that they assume their responsibilities, we expect the Portuguese State to stand firm in defending our interests. This quantitative and qualitative assessment of the impact of the military presence on the Lajes must also be balanced in future negotiations with regard to the transfer of the Lajes Base to the US army.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u98	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing six draft resolutions on a matter which is relevant and which justifies that there is concern on the part of this House. Last week, we asked whether we should contribute to a seventh draft resolution and we found that it would not be justified to do so in view of what was being presented. And it was not because we considered that the issue is not relevant, because it is because it would not have been the subject of so many initiatives presented in this House. Now, what we understand is that an effort by this House is justified so that it can leave here a coherent text on a subject which undoubtedly deserves it. The problem of soil and water contamination on the third island as a result of decades of activity at the Lajes Base is very serious and justifies a concern, but it does not justify, from our point of view, alarms, because nothing should justify alarmisms that can disturb populations beyond what is reasonable and fair. And, in this case, there is reasonableness and fairness in the concern and demand that there is, in fact, a decontamination action that can, as far as possible, reduce the damage caused, prevent public health and prevent greater damage to the health of the population of the Third Island. We believe that a matter such as this deserves the approval of a consistent text by the Assembly of the Republic and that it is indeed effective for the competent authorities to do what they have to do to promote the urgent decontamination of the Third Island. We have two options here. There are six draft resolutions, and we will all vote favourably because we think they are going in the positive direction, in order to actually solve the problem, but we want to think - it is not very prestigious that this House approves and public, signed by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, six projects on the same subject as they would decontaminate or six third or six third or third islands. Since it does not seem to us that this is the best contribution to solving the problem, we understand that it should be found, although it can make a flexible reading of the Rules of Procedure, a way of having a single text which combines the wishes expressed in this House and which commits us all and not six texts, which ultimately do not compromise anyone. Mr President, as a contribution from this debate, we would even like to deliver to the Bureau a text that can help resolve the issue; if the parliamentary groups want to use it, good, if they do not want to use it, we will use another one. It seems to us that it would be useful to have some understanding of this matter beyond a multiplication of overlapping texts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u100	I cannot fail to comment on the words addressed to the Bureau by Mr António Filipe, saying that there is an expectation that, in the light of the parliamentary procedures under consideration, the Conference of Leaders may soon find a more appropriate solution for the deliberative processing of resolutions. at this moment, this is the message that I can refer in particular to the judicious concern expressed by Mr António Filipe. The next item is the floor of Mr António Ventura for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this will indeed be the last intervention, because it was us who started the debate and it is us now that we will close it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate ends without the government and the PS presenting a solution. For two years we discussed in committee, we presented a second set of parliamentary initiatives in this House, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not know the problem, as the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Environment, and we insist, we insist, we insist. In the face of doubts, international news, alarmism and responsibility, we insist that the government or the PS tell us when the work of total decontamination would start. This was the answer that was required in this House today. Once again, the Government and the PS have launched the resolution of the problem forward and, having done so, they are not contributing to the necessary confidence, for the necessary quiet of the populations of the Third Island, for those who visit it and for those who want to invest there. Therefore, if there were any doubts, it would be clear that the responsibility is the PS and the government, which allowed the solution not to be presented today and here, when we all expected the announcement of the start date of the work for total decontamination.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u102	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need no more words, we need to act! It takes action! This is what is required of a responsible government. It is required that you take action and that is what the government is not doing. He's being irresponsible, negligent and criminal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u104	We therefore concluded the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1319, 1270, 1320, 1326, 1336 and 1417 / XIII ( 3. ( a). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the third item on the agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1222 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the capacity of public responses in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism ( PCP ), 1429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specialized and effective public response for intervention in additive and addiction behaviour ( NAP ), 1430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of the conditions for the allocation of financial support by SICAD to entities promoting risk reduction and harm minimisation projects ( NAPs) and 1431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a model of intervention in the area of dependence with more integrated and articulated responses, as well as a serious bet on reducing risks and minimizing damage ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I begin by greeting the professionals present in the galleries. Only the existence of an integrated, comprehensive and coherent strategy of public policies in the area of drug addiction, alcoholism and other dependence and an entity responsible for coordinating and implementing these policies enables the full response in the areas of prevention, deterrence, risk reduction and minimization of damage, treatment and social reintegration. Knowing the need to recover this strategy, as well as the entity destroyed by PSD / CDS, something that the PS government is slowing down to do, the CFP today brings up a proposal aimed at strengthening the capacity of public responses in the area of drug addiction, alcoholism and other addictions. The proposal provides for the establishment, at the level of the Public Administration, of an entity which has the task of coordinating, planning, research and intervention in combating drug addiction, alcoholism and other dependence, and also provides for the recruitment of professionals, support for users in the travel to treatments and retraining of infrastructures where integrated response centres (IRCs) and treatment teams operate. Aware that the creation of this entity does not take place overnight, we propose that, while it is not in full operation, the Government maintain the current status of autonomy of the integrated response centres, the units of unrest and the alcohol units and maintain the teams of health professionals of the structures in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism dedicated exclusively to intervention in this area and strengthen the street teams. These are proposals that combat the fragmentation of the response and reinforce the integrated and comprehensive strategy, as well as the rights of users and professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Six years after the PSD and CDS decision the IDT ( Institute for Drugs and Drug Addiction ) has been extinguished, the consequences of the public response are well-known: fragmentation of the response; reduced teams due to the departure of professionals without their replacement, making it impossible to monitor users appropriately and closely; increased waiting lists. These are the consequences of right-wing policy. It is with that policy that we must break. It is necessary to create the national entity responsible for all aspects of intervention and for planning, research, defining strategic lines and operationalization on the ground. It must be provided with human, technical and financial resources. This is the only way to ensure an effective and coherent public response in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u106	To present your initiatives, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of additive behaviour and dependence needs to be addressed by an efficient and effective structure, equipped with qualified and experienced professionals, which has been achieved with the establishment of the Institute for Drugs and Drug Addiction. In 2012, this Institute was extinct as a result of the creation of the Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ( SICAD ), having generated this new numerous critical model of professionals working in this area, in particular that the process of integration into the five regional health administrations resulted in a fragmentation of the intervention model, today attending regional asymmetries in the provision of care to patients due to the lack of a national and vertical service, having ceased to exist a common, uniform and consistent care standard. Today, there is a situation of ingovernability in this area, waiting for the protection of all attention and intervention. Thus, in order to ensure the existence of a specialized public response, we propose that intervention in additive behaviors be again carried out by a single entity responsible for the development and implementation of an integrated strategy to combat drugs and drug addiction. We would also like to highlight the important role developed in risk reduction and harm minimization projects by the proximity teams, which see their funding secured, only 80 % by SICAD, in a logic of projects that have an annual or multiannual character, so the renewal of their funding depends on the submission of new applications, which compromises the sustainability of projects by verifying the existence of a temporary hiatus between the end of the project and the opening of a new competition, which causes teams to be without funding for indefinite time periods and intervention territories subject to minimum services and, in many cases, ensured by technicians under voluntary arrangements. This is the survival scenario in which many social organizations find themselves today, a scenario of uncertain responses and unfinished projects. In view of the fact that most teams have been taking continuous action for more than 10 years in the same territory, it is essential to prevent this from continuing to happen, and it should still be ensured that 100 % funding is financed, since non-profit entities are concerned which, in place of the State, play an essential role in the communities where they intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u108	You now have the floor to present the draft resolution of BE, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word will naturally go to all the professionals in this area, and many of whom are attending this debate. Thank you for all the work you do! We know that without you it would not be possible to give the answers that exist, especially considering all the vicissitudes they find on the ground. Portugal was, as it is widely recognized today, a pioneer in the new approach to addictions, specifically drug addictions: decriminalization, but not only the design of responses to prevention, deterrence, treatment and reintegration and the reduction of risks instead of persecution and prohibitionism have brought great and frank results, especially from a public health point of view. The reduction of consumption, the reduction of the risks associated with consumption, the reduction of the prevalence of diseases, a more approach in the health perspective and less in the perspective of police intervention were a significant advance. It turns out that the previous Government has decided to disengage and attack these responses and this area of intervention: it has disinvested and cut, as indeed, it has done in everything that were public responses, but, more than that, it has designed a new model that fragmented responses and disarranged the strategy on the ground, and this has had consequences that still feel today. For example, at the end of last year, 13 coordinators in the northern region resigned from their duties. They spoke, as a result of the model imposed by the previous government, in sprayed competences, in fragmented responses, in lack of professionals and the increase of waiting lists for treatment. All of this as a result of this model imposed by the previous Government. The so-called « Aveiro group », which gathers dozens of professionals working in this area, demands a new model for this area. So that's what the Left Block comes here to propose to all of us and to all of us. Members, that is, the Government is promoting a model that integrates the aspects of prevention, deterrence, risk reduction, treatment and reintegration and which articulates the various levels from coordination and planning to responses on the ground, of course, without losing the work that professionals have done in recent years despite all difficulties. This new model is urgent and the current government can no longer draw its decisions. But we propose more than that, in particular, that we invest, in a decisive and decisive way, in the risk reduction policy; that we implement, once and for all, what already exists and which is planned in the legislation, such as assisted consumption rooms; that responses and services, such as drug checking, be implemented to ensure that people who consume know what they are consuming, with quality; that they ensure risk reduction responses, for example, in prisons; that they provide conditions for the development of projects; and that they promote more on the ground with more stability and with better conditions. It is also necessary to update the necessary diagnoses and change the existing portfolio to ensure not only 100 % funding to teams and projects on the ground as a longer duration of these projects. These are the proposals that the Left Block brings today's discussion and we sincerely hope that they will be adopted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u110	Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing four initiatives in the area of dependence today, and the CFP recommends that the Government strengthen the capacity of public responses in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism. Anyone reading the PCP project has the idea that the PCP does not support the current government. In addition to the usual criticisms made by previous governments, it accuses the current government of continuing to destroy public response in the area of dependence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u112	What a rich union we really have here! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u113	And do you complain about the lack of professionals in the CRI? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u114	They look like parrots!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u115	Do you know that more than two years have passed since the de facto union is similar to civil marriage? Oh, my God! Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you are also to blame on this matter! [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u116	But where they are most surprised is when they do profession of faith on the virtues of the private and social sector. So now they recommend contracts with the social and private sectors in a complementary perspective? Oh, my God! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] It is so inconsistency that we will soon see the CFP celebrating the religious wedding here! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u117	Madam Member, if it was for this, it would have been better if I had told you anecdotal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u118	Concerning the draft resolution of the Left Block, few news brings us. In addition to the usual lack of financial and professional resources, the Left Block says that there are no means, but then it supports and approves the policies of this government that invest in the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] Nothing new coming from a party that changed its coherence by means of the power! On the other hand, the NAP presents us with two initiatives: one, in order to create a new entity in the area of additive and dependence behaviors and, a second, in order to strengthen financial support to project promoters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD believes that it is important to ensure that people are treated with quality, efficiency and speed. In the current model, where SICAD is responsible for planning and monitoring the programs and the ARS (Regional Health Administrations ) the operational component, we consider that not all their potentials have yet been explored. The PSD believes that the government must, on the one hand, improve and strengthen the link between the SNS structures, with primary and hospital health care, rather than simply reverse the current model, and on the other hand, it should provide conditions for greater and better involvement of the SNS, better integrating policies, further strengthening programs and deepening the articulation of responses. For us, for the PSD, the fight against dependencies needs everyone. It needs all the National Health Service and the projects that today bring us here do not seem to us to respond to these needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u119	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking today about drug policy, drug addictions and addictions not for good reasons, as we have done in the past. Portugal was a world reference when we showed the world our boldness and proved that humanist vision is the closest to health consumers. We had an integrated intervention model that articulated prevention, treatment, risk reduction, deterrence and reintegration that was lightly dismantled by previous governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This dismantling did not introduce savings, introduced zero health gains, contrary to what they taught and as well as is demonstrated in the reports that SICAD has made on this matter. This dismantling was not supported by any study, did not listen to professionals, nor did the entities working on the ground. The alerts the PS made were many, but no, they didn't hear anyone. Fernando Henriques Cardoso, at the time Chairman of the United Nations Global Drug Policy Commission, said he feared that the changes that had been made could remove the ability to intervene and weaken the effectiveness of national drug policy and the summit and vanguard that Portugal had won by the innovating hostage. That's what happened! Today, professionals in the area have become "tangled" between the SICAD, which defines the policies, and the ARSs on whom they depend to execute them. The answers were fragmented and only, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the quality and responsibility of these professionals, despite a great climate of clear demotivation in the Aveiro declaration, allow them to continue to guarantee, at the cost, the health care that people need. Therefore, I greet those here in the gallery who are listening to this debate for your courage, for they have not given up on drug addicts, nor on the addicts of various types of addictions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what is destroyed, Mrs. Member, in four years it has been a long time to rebuild! The mistake was yours! And that mistake can never, never, ever resign! The Government, and well, has created a working group that is evaluating the alternatives of the three models proposed by this group and irrespective of the model that is adopted, it must always ensure - an integrated intervention strategy, non segmentation of responses, as happened in the past, a strategy adapted to the new types of consumption - and we know that they are there with young people and women - and an articulation and sustainability with the SNS. Therefore, we follow the principles of the projects presented here, but we also want to say that the model should ensure effectiveness and be on-line with the Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies and the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u122	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is only this holistic vision, which is a vision of the future, which allows effective responses to people and communities, as has always been and will continue to be the bell of the Socialist Party in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u123	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us debate today relevant aspects in terms of drug addiction and alcohol policy. In the CDS it is clear that the policies that should be adopted and stimulated in this area should be multisectoral policies articulated, integrated and proximity with a strong component of risk reduction and harm minimization. These are policies that must ensure correct, comprehensive and quality support for the individual and his family, with guaranteed access to treatments for those who truly need them. There is a meritorious work, which has been carried out for years, first in the RTD and then in the SICAD, by dedicated and highly professional teams, teams we today greet, which has not been duly supported and guaranteed, as evidence, in fact, the decline in funds allocated by this government — I repeat, by this government — to SICAD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u125	For us, and recognizing from the outset that there are areas for improvement and investments that this government has to guarantee, this improvement is only to dismantle organisms or start all over again. For us, the solution is to give effective political priority and invest in these structures, in particular in the teams of proximity and minimization of damage that complain today, and not for years, of cuts in funding that compromise their work. In fact, it was aware of this worrying reality that the CDS proposed, at the head of the State budget, still for months, here in this House, a strengthening of money and investment in these teams. And what did we see happen? Our proposal, in this matter, was, here, plunged by the Left Block, by the PCP and by the PS, by mere ideological prejudice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u127	I repeat: by mere ideological prejudice, which is regrettable! It is therefore surprising that today they come to propose what the CDS proposed before and that you did not make it possible, and if you had made it possible today we would have different realities. For these numbers, we did not contribute, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u129	I want to conclude by saying that this is undoubtedly one of the areas affected by the austerity installed in the Ministry of Health, austerity which you want to deny, because on the second, fourth and sixth, they accuse the Government that supports and on the third, on the fifth and on the Saturdays of their actions. Do you want solutions to this problem? They call on the Government to support concrete solutions, which turn from words to acts, which are audacity to invest and provide conditions for these teams that have recently seen their work badly damaged. The CDS knows which side it is on, knows it supports the right policies for drug addiction and alcohol. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u130	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u131	Mr President, trying to be very succinct, I would like to say to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto that no, that we have not come to propose what the CDS proposed. In fact, we've come to do the opposite of what the CDS did. We have come to propose solutions to the problems that CDS and PSD have created. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That is what we have come to propose, we have come to propose solutions to the problems that you have created. Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD says she does not see any news in the Left Block proposals, certainly she does not read them and they are many. The question remains whether or not it agrees with assisted consumption rooms. Does it agree, or not, with the improvement of funding for risk reduction projects?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u133	Do you agree, or not, with drug-checking services? Does it agree, or not, with a new model more integrated and more articulated of responses? If he didn't know or if he didn't answer we didn't know, but his past speaks for himself: he disjointed, disintegrated. Therefore, it does not agree, it is not on the right side in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u134	You have the floor for a new speech, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PSD nothing new. In fact, whenever it intervenes, it is to try to pursue right-wing policy. Moreover, what the PSD has done is to support the Socialist Party in those measures that do not solve the problems. I remind you of the position that the PSD had in the State Budget when the PCP presented a proposal very similar to that one, voted alongside the PS, making the proposal of the PCP impossible. That's the truth. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u136	You're talking bad about the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u137	The CDS also does not realize, it now defends public responses when it is responsible, together with the PSD, to destroy the public response, to destroy an integrated model and strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u138	Understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u139	of the PCP, we have the consistency of always, the defense of an integrated model, an entity responsible for all aspects. from the PS, Mrs. Member, professionals deserve to be recognized because it is thanks to them that the public response is not so degraded, that the results in the area of addiction, alcoholism and other dependencies are not so degraded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u140	There's the wedding going!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u141	But, Mrs. Member, professionals, users...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u142	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, professionals, users are full of promises and beautiful words. What professionals and users want, the PS and the government, is a clear decision-making without tibias, the defense and creation of a responsible entity, the recovery of an integrated model. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u144	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1222 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ), 1429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( PAN ), 1430 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PAN) and 1431 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( BE ). on agenda item 4 is resolution No 63 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe against Human Trafficking, opened for signature in Santiago de Compostela on 22 March 2015 for which no time has been allocated. So, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the voting period, we will check the quorum of deliberations using the electronic system to that end. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register in the system will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 192 presences, to which two PSD Members, Antonio Leitão Amaro and Carla Barros, and two PS Deputies, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and Lara Martinho, making 196 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 497/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Professor João Calvão da Silva, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP Members. I ask the Secretary, Mrs Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u145	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Born in Montalegre in February 1952, Professor João Calvão da Silva graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra in 1975, a university for which he graduated in Civil Law in 1990, when he was hired as Assistant Professor. The illustrious academic was Professor of the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra since March 2003, having marked several generations with its clear and committed teaching of Civil Law, Civil and Commercial Procedure. It leaves a vast scientific legacy that constitutes a reference in the study and practice of law. The university professor was President of the BBS — Institute of Banking Law, Stock Exchange and Insurance, Editorial member and co-owner of the Journal of Legislation and Jurisprudence (RLJ ), member of the Brazilian Academy of Civil Law, Jurisconsultate and Vice-President of the Arbitration Centre of the Lisbon Trade and Industrial Association, with extensive experience in arbitrations. In addition to university professor, he also performed government positions, having served as Minister of Internal Administration in 2015, in the XX Constitutional Government and between 1983 and 1985, Deputy Secretary of State of the Deputy Prime Minister Carlos da Mota Pinto, in the Government chaired by Mário Soares. Between 1985 and 1992, he was Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of TAP Portugal, and between 1992 and 1995 he was a member of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, and he was also a member of the Higher Council of Magistracy until 2009. He was a prominent national and district leader of the Social Democratic Party, President of the PSD National Jurisdiction Council, and was elected a member of the Assembly of the Republic, by the Coimbra circle, between 1995 and 1999. Leave us an example of tenacity in the course of your life, of exemplary dedication in your academic life, and of involvement in politics and in the country’s direction. The Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen, of the politician and illustrious academic and addresses his wife, children and other family, friends and the Democratic Social Party the most sympathetic condolences."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u146	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 497 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau shall address the members of the family here present their condolences and on behalf of the entire Assembly of the Republic we shall keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We now turn to vote No 498/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the Day of the Mediterranean, submitted by the Members of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean ( APM ) and by the Members of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean ( AP-UpM ) and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, to be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « March 21 is the Day of the Mediterranean since 2008. In 2018 this date is dedicated to mass migration and Human Rights. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, points out, ‘ administering migration is one of the deepest challenges of international cooperation. Migration encourages economic growth, reduces inequalities and connects different societies. However, it is also a source of political tensions and human tragedies. Celebrating in 2018 the year 70. the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the signatories, members of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean and Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, welcome the process launched by the UN General Assembly that will lead to the adoption of a comprehensive pact for a secure, regular and orderly migration in September 2018. in this framework, the APM, whose presidency is exercised by the Assembly of the Republic, has carried out a number of activities, namely the 3. the Seminar on Human Rights, in cooperation with the UN Human Rights Council, which will focus on the parliamentary follow-up of national policies relevant to the most vulnerable people, including women, children and the elderly. AP-UpM, which will meet in April in Cairo, will seek consensus on the issue of the human dimension in migration, taking up the spirit of the Lisbon Declaration of the 2015 Presidents Summit of the organization. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 — To reaffirm the commitment to the contribution to the definition of a comprehensive framework for migration governance, which competes for peace, security, democracy and progress in the Mediterranean countries and in the world. 2 — Call on the Parliamentary assemblies to join the representatives of the two Mediterranean shores in order to play an active role in the resolution of issues requiring mass migration and to speak with one voice in support of the promotion and protection of human rights".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u148	We shall vote on vote No 498/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u149	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u150	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u151	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u152	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We now see the convergence that can make an overcrowding « softener ». [[Laughing.]] We turn to vote No 499/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulation by the superhero « Assobator », Moura Waters, awarded as a European tree of the year, presented by the PS and the CDS-PP...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u153	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u154	That's what's on the script, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u155	But it's not just! It is also a parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u156	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u157	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u158	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Greens have also subscribed to this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u159	Mrs. Deputy, it's registered, with all the pleasure. Convergence widens. Thus, to read vote No 499/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulation by the superintendent « Assobator », of Moura Waters, awarded as a European tree of the year, presented by the PS, the CDS-PP and the Greens, and signed by PSD Members, is addressed to the Secretary, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u160	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The European Parliament announced on 21 March the winner of the European Year Tree. This award, which marked the International Day of Trees and Forests, fell to the envelope ‘Assobiador’, planted in 1783, in Moura Waters, Palmela Town Hall, Setúbal District. Classified as a ‘ tree of public interest’, it is recorded in Guinness records as ‘ the world’s largest superhero. ’ At 234 years old, 16, 2 meters high and a trunk perimeter above 4 meters, the ‘Assobator’ has already been cut off more than 20 times and houses at its cup, at the end of the day, hundreds of birds who gather to chill. Under its huge cup are many stories and memories throughout all these years. The Portuguese superintendent competed for the first time against 12 countries and obtained 26 606 votes. Thus, in the applicable regulatory and constitutional terms, the Assembly welcomes all those who have contributed and mobilized for this candidacy and election to be successfully completed and stresses the importance of conservation and preservation of nature and our entire heritage of public interest".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u161	Let us vote vote No 499/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I will not ask any Member to make an attempt to compete, assemble, with the superhero 'Assobiandor'. We all congratulate each other. We now proceed to vote No 500 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings and commemorations of the International Down Syndrome Day, submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSDP and PS Members, to be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u162	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was celebrated last March 21st the International Down Syndrome Day. The first celebration of this day took place in 2006 and was adopted by the United Nations on its official calendar, being celebrated every year in about 193 countries. The date chosen, 21 of month three, refers to the trisomy of chromosome 21, which, as a rule, consists of a pair, but which, in the case of people with this syndrome, has three copies. The goal of Down Syndrome International Day is to give voice to these people, combating misinformation and prejudice. The date is used to state that Down syndrome is not a disease but a genetic condition that cannot prevent social integration. In Portugal, several institutions have been committed to affirming the singularity of the contribution to Humanity of people with Down syndrome. It is estimated that one in every 800 babies is born with trisomy 21. The person with trisomia 21 has rights and is protected by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Portuguese State in September 2009. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 — Within the framework of Down Syndrome International Day, greet Portuguese and Portuguese with Down Syndrome, their families and institutions that are dedicated to their appreciation and integral development. 2 — To reaffirm the commitment to full respect for all the rights of all persons covered by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u163	Let us vote No 500 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1414/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movements by the President of the Republic to France, Egypt and Spain ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] An application submitted by BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the PAN shall be assessed, requesting the Commission for Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without voting for a period of 60 days on the projects of lein. 801 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of the informal caregiver and reinforces the support measures for dependent persons ( makes the third amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2006 of 6 June 2006 and the tenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE) and 804 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen support for informal caregivers and dependent persons ( PCP ) and draft resolutions 1400 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider dementia and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority, that it develop a national plan for intervention for dementias, that it adopt the measures necessary for adequate support for these patients and their families and that it create and implement the status of informal caregivers ( CDS-PP ) and 1488/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to support informal caregivers ( NAPs ). As provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the submission of the application may be made orally, which was requested by the Bureau, and each parliamentary group present, Block Left, PCP and CDS, will have 2 minutes. For that purpose, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The status of the informal caregiver is a priority for the Left Block. Since we understand that Parliament should assume its responsibilities, we have introduced a bill that creates that statute, in fact, we were the only party to do so in those terms. We do not want to waste any more time, but we do not want to waste any chance of consensus in this Parliament. To ensure the strengthening of social support, the reconciliation between the provision of care and the maintenance of employment, the rest of caregivers, the right to reform, accounting for the time of care, training and training of informal caregivers, we are willing and committed to working together with all parties, and also with the Government, to respond to more than 800 000 people whose care they provide today is not recognized. This requirement for the initiatives to be brought down to the committee has two meanings for us, the first being our openness and our commitment to reaching an agreement in this Parliament, and our total willingness to work together, from the basis we have already proposed. The second is that we understand this requirement as the expression of a commitment from the various parliamentary groups to start this work now. Until the summer, the eyes of the informal caregivers and caregivers will be placed on us, on Parliament, and we have a duty not to fail them. This step is very important, to caregivers and caregivers who have made a petition we should. We must complete this process by summer and, on our part, we are committed, 100 %, to doing this work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u165	Mr João Dias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u166	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the PCP bill proposes a set of measures to support informal caregivers and dependent people who meet their needs. The CFP presents measures involving not only the support to be provided by public services, in the areas of health and social security, but also the consideration of other measures that also respond to the situation of all informal caregivers and dependent people. What the PCP brought the discussion is not only limited to one recommendation, it is a bill, because we understand that this set of support for informal caregivers and the person in dependence should be law. The PCP bill could be voted on today. However, the decision we have taken to bring down the committee without a vote is a contribution that we are trying to make, so that we can find a way to build solutions for all people as wide as possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u167	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u168	Mr. President and Mr. Members, we wanted to reiterate here that support for caregivers and the most vulnerable people is a priority, and it has been a priority for the CDS for a long time. Since 2016 we have been the first to draw attention to the need to adopt policies aimed at those who are, for us, heroes of the daily and who care for the most vulnerable. For this reason, we have put forward a number of initiatives here and we should remember that, both in the field of health and in the field of work, some of them have been sadly plunged. Therefore, the proposals we made earlier have not passed and, in order for this risk not to be taken, we actually accept this discharge to the committee, without a vote, today, here, because for us what counts are people. In fact, far from ideological prejudices, consensus must be taken and put into practice, with a faster response for these people, people of all ages, not only those who have dementia. What we want is that, effectively, whether or not in committee, we can do what the government has been in charge of doing since 2016, with recommendations from this House, and has not done. Surely the CDS will not stop around here, because for us this is an area of the highest priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u169	We shall then vote on the application to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for a period of 60 days of the projects of lein.o 801 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), BE, and 804 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the PCP, and draft resolutions 1400 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the CDS-PP, and 1408 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), of the NAP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1396 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study and subsequent opening of a negotiation for a special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the BE, in favour of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of long-term contribution careers and consideration of retirement schemes relating to specific situations, including teaching ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u170	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u171	Mrs. Member, what effect is it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u172	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote under these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u173	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 65 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain by which the closing line of the mouths of the rivers Mininho and Guadiana is established and the international sections of both rivers are delimited, signed in Vila Real, on 20 May 2017. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( ALRAM ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall also, in general, vote on Bill No 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, and amending the Code of Municipal Property Tax, as approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ( ALRAM ). [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens, with votes in favour of BE and with abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1319 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Discontamination of soils and aquifers from the Victorian Beach ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with the votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1270 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote total decontamination of the third island ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1320 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and repair of environmental damage caused by foreign military activity on the Third Island ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1326 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Decontamination and recovery of areas affected by the activity of the United States Air Force at the Lajes Base, on the Third Island ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1336 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repair of environmental damage caused by U.S. military forces stationed at the Lajes Base ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1417/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The effective identification and rehabilitation of sites contaminated on the third island by the military presence of the United States of America ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] As I have just said, the expectation we have is that at the Leaders' Conference we can adjust the criteria for adopting resolutions. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1222 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the capacity of public responses in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism ( PCP ). At the request of the PSD, we shall first vote on paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We then vote paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specialized and effective public response for intervention in additive and dependence behaviours ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of the conditions for the allocation of financial support by SICAD to entities promoting risk reduction and harm minimisation projects ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a model of intervention in the area of dependence with more integrated and articulated responses, as well as a serious bet on reducing risks and minimizing damage ( BE ). The parliamentary groups of the PCP, the PSD and the Left Block asked for a separate vote of several numbers. We shall therefore vote separately. We shall therefore vote on paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on paragraph 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 4. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS, BE and the PAN.]] We shall vote on paragraph 5. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1431 / XIII ( 3 ) was thus concluded. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u175	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u176	Mr President, it is to inform that for the last two votes of draft resolutions 1430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 1431 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) the CFP Parliamentary Group shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u177	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u179	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u180	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote but only in relation to the vote on draft resolution No 1431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u181	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 63 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe against Human Trafficking, open for signature in Santiago de Compostela, on 22 March 2015. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1382/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognition of the eligibility of shrub pastures in mountain regions for the purposes of aid from the CAP ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1280 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the discipline of physical education in secondary education ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 1 Member of the CDS-PP (Telmo Correia), votes against 3 Members of the PS (Luís Graça, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves) and 4 Members of the CDS-PP (Cecilia Meireles, Patrícia Fonseca, Pedro Mota Soares and Teresa Caeiro) and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u183	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u184	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we are now voting on draft resolution No 1324 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the academic burden of the discipline of Physical Education and the valorisation of the school sport ( PCP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 1 Member of the CDS-PP (Telmo Correia), votes against 3 Members of the PS (Luís Graça, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves) and 4 Members of the CDS-PP (Cecilia Meireles, Patrícia Fonseca, Pedro Mota Soares and Teresa Caeiro) and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u187	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u188	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will immediately submit a vote statement on both drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u189	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u190	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u191	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u192	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u193	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u195	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u196	Mr President, it is in order to announce that, also on the vote on this draft resolution, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u199	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u200	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr Luís Graça and I will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, I believe that we can proceed to the next vote on draft resolution No 1425 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Generalization of access to the medicinal product to treat spinal muscle atrophy to patients with type I and type II in all hospitals of the National Health Service (The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1426 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide patients with spinal atrophy with the most appropriate treatments, including pharmacology ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall continue, in general, with the vote on Bill No 649 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the social and labour protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 450 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes a new legal regime for the transport of passengers on decharacterised light motor vehicles ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens, with votes in favour of BE and with abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the proposal for a Law No 50 / XIII ( 2a) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform and draft law No 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform ( TIRPE ) ( PSD ). The indication given to me is that the general vote on these diplomas can take place at the same time as the vote on the speciality and in the overall final vote. Do you lecture?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u204	Mr President, the speciality vote is the ratification of the votes made in the Commission, so what we are going to do is ratify rather than vote in the speciality itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u205	I don't know if that's the confirmation of what I just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u206	Mr President, the CFP will vote against the content of the law, but of course we voted in favour of the ratification of the votes cast in the Commission. There is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u207	It is better, then, to separate the votes. We will therefore vote, firstly, in general, then in the field of expertise and, finally, in the overall final vote, so as not to leave any doubt, the text of substitution previously announced. We shall proceed to the vote as a whole. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now vote on the replacement text in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u208	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u209	To what effect, Mr. Deputies? To help us in the voting process, perhaps.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u210	Mr President, would you like to clarify what we are going to vote on: will we vote for the diploma in the specialty or ratification of the votes in the Commission? It's just that they're two different things and we have different sense of vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u211	We are going to vote on the replacement text in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u213	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u214	Mr President, this is what happens in other legislative processes. In the Commission, the speciality vote was taken, Article 2. If we are now going to vote in the specialty, of course we will have to vote article to article because the vote on the CFP is not the same as all the articles. So what we are going to do now here is ratifying the votes that have been made, in particular, within the Commission. And the ratification, by the votes of each party within the Commission, I believe it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u215	Therefore, we must be more careful in the preparation of the scripts, because that is not what is here. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then, if I understand correctly, vote on the vote by the plenary, in particular in the Commission, so that the votes in the speciality are exactly those which have been translated into the Commission. Mrs. Members, let us therefore vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality, within the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on Bill No 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform, and to draft law No 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform ( TIRPE ) ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u216	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u217	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u218	Mr President, it is to inform you that, on the vote, in general, on the overall specialty and end, of this replacement text, we will deliver a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u222	Mr President, it is in order to ask the Bureau that the CFP may, at the appropriate time, make an oral vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u224	Mr President, it is, in the same way, to request that we make an oral vote on this last vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, are you asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u226	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Adam Silva, is it also for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u228	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary to read out the various opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will then be voted on. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u230	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Central Court of Lisbon, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 30770 / 15.5T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Soares ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the car in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u231	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u232	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by Judge 2 of the Central Criminal Court of Funchal, of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Madeira, Case No 186 / 14.7T9FNC, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the car in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u234	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Viseu, Cases Nos 211 / 16.7BEVIS, 213 / 16.3BEVIS and 259 / 16.1BEVIS, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Marisabel Moutela ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u236	Mr. President and Mr. Members, a final opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to the waiver of the mandate of Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila ( CDS-PP ), a constituency in Lisbon, being replaced by Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, with effect from 24 March, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emília Santos to make the announcement of some initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u238	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 810 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Approves the School Social Action Framework Law in Higher Education and defines specific support for students ( PCP ) and 811 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Financing of public higher education ( CFP ), which falls both to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the oral explanations of vote that have been requested. First of all, to this end, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the law that has just been passed with our vote against, another step has been taken towards the destruction of a national base sector, composed mostly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, such as taxi, and the transfer to the interests of multinationals, as is the case of Uber. What was approved by PS, PSD and CDS aims to legalize the operation of multinationals in the individual passenger transport sector, creating a regime parallel and competitive to that of taxi, but of privilege, molded to the service of a large multinational that intends to dominate this economic sector more, placing as many cars as you want, wherever you want and charging the fare you want. When an intervention was required to defend and modernise the taxi sector, resisting the investment of these multinationals over the country and improving the working conditions and the quality of the service provided by the sector, the PS Government opts to join the PSD and CDS in the definition of a legal regime favourable to the interests of multinationals, with the consequences that result, either in terms of unfair competition with the taxi sector, either in the loss of revenue to the State by tax, or in the testing of new forms of exploitation of labour force with direct impacts in the sector, but which may be extended to other sectors. The CFP has taken a clear position since the beginning of this process, in defense of the taxi sector and against the operation of taxi drivers, to work in the regulated sector or in the various still illegal schemes of multinationals. In line with its position, the CFP did not present any legislative initiative, only the PS Government and the PSD and BE did so, but we did not refrain from intervening in this debate by presenting proposals for amendments to contribute, however, to avoid disastrous decisions that ended up, after all, because they were imposed by PS convergence, PSD and CDS. The defence of the taxi sector and all professionals in the sector is inseparable from defending the right to mobility and the national economy, as well as from combating the exploitation of taxi drivers, either those in the regulated sector, or those who are working directly or indirectly for the electronic platforms of multinationals or in many other activities that today compete illegally in the taxi sector. That is what the CFP will continue to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u241	You have the floor now, too, for a statement of vote, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the individual transport of uncharacterized vehicles works irregularly, already several months ago, in Portugal. We know that it is a new sector of activity imposed by new technologies and we must not ignore or pretend that this phenomenon does not exist. The legislative proposals that were presented for the regulation of this sector of activity differed enormously: on the one hand, those who defended the quota; on the other, those who defended a regulation of this sector in which all their actors were protected and, above all, if they gave full protection to the consumer, to the customer. This is what the Socialist Party has been trying to do from the outset, that is to say, to participate in strict and demanding regulation, which is focused, in particular, on consumer protection. in this sense, there has been a regulation in which the electronic platform is classified as « transport operator », because it provides a digital service on the basis of a transport service—in this case, individual carriage in a decharacterised vehicle—, the customer of the electronic platform will become a company designated as « transport operator », will no longer be an individual citizen to be the customer of the electronic platform, that transport operator being a company can be monitored, monitored and monitored by the State in order to combat tax and tax evasion, and vehicles and drivers will be contracted with the transport operator company. Receipt on vehicles, the transport operator and also on electronic platforms a set of obligations and duties that give absolute assurances that this service and this new activity will always take place in the defence of the consumer. Even with regard to drivers, they must have a contract with the transport operator so that it is possible for the regulator and the supervisor to follow in detail all the service that is provided on the vehicle and by the driver. The fact is that this regulation is the product of the contribution of all parties. Proposals from PS, Left Block, PCP, CDS and PSD were approved. It is the product of the contribution of all parliamentary banks and we are convinced that it has strict, demanding and focused regulation in consumer protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u243	You have the floor, too, for a statement of vote, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, in this matter, has always understood that we were faced with a new business, a new challenge that Parliament had to confront, in a logic of allowing freedom of initiative, innovation and entrepreneurship, which we always defend—we cannot have two speeches here, i.e. wanting innovation and entrepreneurship and then creating barriers to that same innovation—but without jeopardizing consumer protection and compliance with the rules of reliability and security of a service. We never confuse this service with taxi service, we say only and only that it is a new service, a new opportunity that must be given to consumers, of greater choice, of greater freedom of installation, of incorporating innovation, of strengthening job creation capacity and the national economy. We therefore wanted to do so in a simple way and we voted against some more intrusive measures in this business, which have modern, innovative, technological-based characteristics, which was what we wanted to protect, without ever questioning, repeat, the power of regulation and supervision of the State and essentially the protection of the consumer. in this measure, materials such as civil liability, identification of the driver, quality of the vehicles, everything was taken into account. This is not a law, in our view, aimed at a company or a brand, basically, is to allow there to be freedom of initiative, freedom of choice, on the part of the consumer, and the ability to incorporate in the country the innovation and entrepreneurship that we need so much. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u245	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, on the individual paid transport of passengers through decharacterized vehicles, always had a very clear position: firstly, it was essential to comply with legality ; secondly, it was necessary to achieve and agree with what consumers thought to be more favourable and within what was fundamental in the field of modernity. That is exactly how we went to a very demanding legislative proposal in this area. This proposal is the essential basis of the regulation of a new sector, a new economic activity, which will enable many small entrepreneurs to carry out their activities and also to carry out professionally. For others, it will also allow the complementarity of an activity, among others that can develop, through a new business, an opportunity that arises to them. in this sense, the PSD understood something very clear: we cannot hide from reality. The reality is changing. Some understand that no, some understand that reality is immutable, but for us, reality is what it is, we have new ways of business, new ways of understanding society, and we want to be within these new ways of understanding society. However, the PSD also understood that, in changing and creating very demanding rules in this area, it was essential, on the one hand, to ensure the protection of workers — hence the requirement for contracts between the employer, platforms and those which are the new modes, and companies, never individually — to guarantee the safety of people, in particular through a set of training and safety requirements for drivers, and, on the other hand, to end, to ensure, in this new mode of transport, what consumers want, which is the protection of their rights and values. This is how the PSD was in the front line, without any prejudice, with this reform, with this proposal, with this modality, not against anyone, not against any sector, before, favourable to a new business idea. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u247	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. Next week Parliamentary activity will start, in a specific way, on the Greens' parliamentary days, to whom I want everything to run for the best.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-23.u249	I am left to announce the agenda for our Wednesday plenary meeting on 28 March: debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of the fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in mainland Portugal. Nothing else to deal with, very late Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 55 minutes.]]
