ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Mr. Secretary, Mrs. Emilia Santos, has the floor to read an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he has submitted to the Bureau a report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics on the resumption of the mandate in accordance with Article 6 (1) and (2). the Statute of Deputies, by Pedro Filipe Soares ( BE), electoral circle of Lisbon, ending the term of office to Deputy Maria Luísa Cabral, with effect from 5 January 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption and the cessation of the Members concerned are to be admitted, as legal requirements have been found.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the resumption of a mandate with effect from today, we will have to vote before we start the agenda. I therefore put the opinion to the vote. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the Greens and the NAP was recorded.]] From now on, his mandate resumes the parliamentary leader of the Left Block. of the first item on the agenda is the amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, with the general debate of the projects of lein. 694 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Legal System of Parliamentary Investigations ( PSD ) and 721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations ( amends Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ) ( BE ). To present the initiative of your party, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They are essentially two of the powers which the Assembly of the Republic has in our political system: on the one hand, the monitoring of the acts of the Administration and of the Government and on the other hand its legislative powers which, in some matters, are even exclusive. within the scope of supervision, the most powerful instrument that the Assembly of the Republic has and which is constitutionally envisaged is that of setting up parliamentary committees of inquiry. Parliamentary investigations are therefore the most powerful instrument of political supervision of the government and administration that depends on the Assembly of the Republic and that the Assembly of the Republic has over them. It is a particularly powerful and relevant instrument, necessarily, for oppositions. That is why 10 years ago — in fact, more than 10 years ago, in 2006, therefore almost 12 years ago, proposals have been put forward in this House to amend the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations in order to grant the oppositions, parliamentary minorities, an increased competence and capacity to intervene in parliamentary investigations. This law has been in force in the last decade and has been in force without major attacks, but, unfortunately, in this legislature, these attacks have come to the top and what can be a perverse interpretation of the legislation itself in force has come to an end. The truth is that the country witnessed, astonished, two attempts by the Assembly of the Republic to monitor the situation in the General Deposit Box ( CGD ) without being able to strictly investigate anything. That is, everything the country expected the Assembly of the Republic to be able to inquire about the situation in the General Deposit Box was in cod water,... [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u5	... and this, of course, happens only because the law gave a conjunctival majority to act in this way and transform what should be the parliamentary inquiry or an inquiry committee into a real cover-up committee. But, from our point of view, we cannot comply with this situation. It is a situation that goes beyond the parties which, together, are currently in opposition. in a democratic and pluralist society like ours, today are some parties that are in the majority and tomorrow will be others and today are some that are in the minority and tomorrow will be others necessarily. What is needed is to find a legal mechanism that safeguards this fundamental competence of political supervision of the government and of the administration by Parliament, providing Parliament with the necessary and sufficient legal mechanisms to prevent any attempt to hinder it. It is with this in mind that the Social Democratic Party presents this legislative initiative, with the perfect notion of two things: on the one hand, the proposals we present do not cover all the necessary works in the Legal Regime and, on the other hand, a legal regime like this has to get as much consensus as possible, exactly as happened 12 years ago in this House. Moreover, and with this ending, our basic political proposal is that, once I have had this previous debate here in plenary, we can in the Commission adopt a methodology of work identical to that which was done in 2006 and 2007 in order to find a consensus with all parliamentary groups that really improves the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations and that can ensure that this legal instrument of political supervision does not die, as it is, unfortunately, from the beginning of this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u6	You now have the floor to present the legislative initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The review of the legal regime of parliamentary committees of inquiry is justified in view of two essential objectives: firstly, to strengthen the efficiency and capacity of parliamentary committees of inquiry to ascertain all the facts relevant to the matter which is being appreciated and, secondly, to continue, to prolong, the effort that has been made to withdraw parliamentary committees of inquiry from the game of forces between majority and minority, providing them with the autonomy that can prestigious them. in this sense, the Left Block proposes to this House the adoption of three essential measures: first, the inclusion, in the final report, of the plurality of opinions which have been expressed in the task of ascertaining the facts within the framework of the parliamentary committee of inquiry concerned; second, the obligation to debate in plenary what is the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, regardless of whether or not there has been a final report to be approved at the end; and finally, to prevent the abuse of parliamentary committees of inquiry for tactical manoeuvres, in particular by amending its object. That is why we look at some reservation to the bill presented today by the Social Democratic Party, because it seems to us that it does not meet these two objectives clearly enough. First of all, the draft law of the Social Democratic Party allows for the possibility of changing the object of the commission of inquiry, it enshrines it, in fact, as one of the innovative features of its project. This means that the parliamentary committees of inquiry should be piloted in the interests of a certain parliamentary group, and we believe that this should not happen. We therefore consecrate the opposite solution, which is that of the object's permanence. Secondly, the PSD bill seems to be confusing between the power to set up a committee and the right to impose an object on it, even if that object is not lawful, for example the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on future events. Now, there must indeed be a capacity to filter this risk, let us say, whatever the proposed parliamentary group is, as is obvious. Finally, there is a third point that we also deserve reservations, which is the fact that the parliamentary committees of inquiry have their work suspended as a result of appeal to the court, in order to find out what situations have to do with the non-submission of documents. The gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament know that, over the course of time, there have been numerous committees of inquiry where, with several majority and several minorities, this situation has occurred and has unfortunately been a very frequent practice, but, of course, the suspensive effect has not in any way allowed any parliamentary group to use this pretext to stop the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Therefore, we are available to work in this area, as a specialist, to strengthen the autonomy and efficiency of parliamentary committees of inquiry, we are not, as it is clear, available to serve any intention of appropriation of parliamentary committees of inquiry for the purposes of majority or minority, because we do not believe that this is the best sense of our work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u8	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents this draft law with good intentions — indeed, it makes a profuse quote of PCP initiatives on this matter, with which, of course, we welcome and also know that we have readers in the PSD attentive to our legislative initiatives — although the solutions that it then proposes and the reasons it invokes are not in proper conformity with the merit of the purposes of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u10	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u11	Now, when I refer to the merits of the aims of the initiative, I am referring to the protection and, in some ways, to the protection of the power rights of Members of parties not represented in the Government who, in constitutional and legal terms, have the possibility to impose, within certain limits, the constitution of parliamentary committees of inquiry. And we very much appreciate these rights; indeed, in the past we have fought a lot for them and we believe that the last revision of the law of parliamentary investigations on this matter had its merits. What Mr Marques Guedes invokes now in this debate from our point of view is not reasonable. In other words, what happened, in relation to the investigations you cited, was that the PSD wanted to instrumentalise the figure of the parliamentary inquiry for other purposes, from which the existing grounds of complaint do not, in our view, refer to this legislation. It is clear to us that what has come to dignify and shield the power rights has, in fact, our understanding from that point of view that this legislative process can be an opportunity to reflect on some aspects of the functioning of parliamentary investigations which may have a legislative translation in order to dignify this institute. There are certain points which, in fact, deserve careful consideration, which does not mean that the proposals presented by the PSD here are the best in this respect. There are proposals here that, from our point of view, in fact, do not make sense, for example, to question the Supreme Council of Justice (CSM) on the existence of criminal proceedings in a matter which also has to be investigated, when the Supreme Council of Justice does not interfere in specific cases. Therefore, from our point of view, this does not make much sense, nor does it make sense that, after the parliamentary inquiry has been instituted and that it is in operation, the proposers will change the object. That is to say, we have proposed a certain object, but then, as that one does not serve us, we are moving from object to path — this is not a serious foundation. There are also some semantic aspects with which the PSD seeks to bring the law into line with its political discourse, such as changing the rule of consideration that the opposition parties are the parties not represented in the government, to enter into a diffuse of concepts of majority and minorities. And this also makes no sense, because it only tries to give logic to an inconsistent speech that the PSD has maintained throughout this legislature. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that we can take this opportunity to have an interesting and, hopefully, productive reflection on a review of the law of parliamentary investigations, which does not necessarily mean that we will adhere to the proposals that are specifically presented here by the PSD on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u12	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reflection and discussion on the law of parliamentary investigations is useful and relevant, at present, for conjunctural reasons, which have to do with what has happened in the last committees of inquiry, but also because, as already said, more than 10 years have passed over the last revision of that law and even a very positive assessment of this review has been made. So what we should have as first note is that parliamentary investigations are today more effective, they are now equipped with more effective instruments than in the past, and a legislative amendment must serve not to go back but to get us to go even further, because, in a parliamentary democracy, the instrument of parliamentary inquiry is fundamental for the citizens' scrutiny, through their elected representatives, to be done in a dimension greater than what is normally done. We have, of course, fulfilled our supervisory function here daily, but in parliamentary investigations we have means that we do not normally have to be able to go even further in the supervision of governments and administrations — and this is very important. Obviously, there are obstacles, which then arise, to the efficiency of these parliamentary investigations, being one of them of trivialization, and here we have to have the political responsibility of all of us to realize that this is an exceptional instrument, its trivialization competes to stop having the role that effectively has. And this reflection, with regard to recent years, cannot fail to be made, does not fall within the view of the amendment of the law, but falls within the view of the individual responsibility of each party to reflect on how Parliament's investigations are used. But there are two obstacles to the efficiency of parliamentary investigations which have a great deal to do with the law: one is that of the dictatorship of the majority; the other is that of impeding, by external entities, the fulfilment of the responsibilities before the law and the mission of Parliament. With regard to the dictatorship of the majority, there was an amendment arising from this legislation — and here I would run away from the specific question of each committee of inquiry, I would go to the conceptual question. So far, we are fighting the issue of the dictatorship of the majority in a logic of a majority of Members against the minority of Members, and here the last revision was effective, because indeed it has granted minorities some rights that previously did not exist. This Parliament has confronted Parliament with a different reality, which is a majority of parties. for the first time, a majority of Members also corresponded to a majority of parties and a minority of Members corresponded to a minority of parties, and this substantially altered the exercise of what rights are in the committees of inquiry. And the balance that was made in the last review, with regard to the number of Members, must also be made in this regard in relation to the number of parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u15	... so that what is the fundamental objective is not frustrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u16	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u17	On the other hand — and I shall finish, Mr President — we have the issue of external obstruction, and here the PSD project is particularly relevant: Parliament cannot allow the rights it has to be violated, not because the law does not empower it, not because the courts do not give it reason in those rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u18	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u19	... but because the institutions do not respect the rights of Parliament, nor the obligations conferred by law on it, nor even the decisions and jurisprudence of the courts. This is a bad service which Parliament offers to democracy if it does not provide the law with effective mechanisms so that it can be fulfilled itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u20	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by stressing that the constitutional and legal regime of our committees of inquiry, compared with the parliamentary experience of states of democratic law like ours, will hardly find a more generous solution for the minority initiative in the parliamentary framework. This means that our law has gone far—and it has been well! — in order to ensure that, for each legislative session, one fifth of the Members may, positively, ensure the establishment of a committee of inquiry and establish their object. However, Mr José Manuel Pureza said a few years ago — and, in our view, well! — one of the problems that we need to identify in the working experience of the committees of inquiry is that they do not end up being pretexts for conjunctural combat between the majority and parliamentary minorities. It's an essential problem. All of you. Members know that, at the time of the setting up of a committee and its entry into operation, Members who will be part of it must ensure that there is no virtual relationship of interest to the purpose of the investigation. All right! But, I would say, we would need to go further, we would need to ensure, absolutely, that Members appointed for an inquiry committee, from then on, guarantee a total exemption in their investigative attitude, without any disciplinary dependence on the parliamentary groups to which they belong. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we move on this path, we will have ensured one of the most important aspects for the suitability of the committees of inquiry. for our part, we are available to collaborate in the search for such a solution. by saying what I just said, of course, he is aware that we are moving away from several of the concrete solutions presented by the PSD bill, namely this hypothesis, that the purpose of the committee initially set is to be changed successively by the effect of the ruling law of the party, therefore a minority in the functioning of a committee. Now, one thing is to guarantee initiative rights, participation rights, constitutional rights, another thing is to have the object of the investigation in the taste of retaliations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u23	... that often have a purely biased nature in the context of the general political struggle. This affects the suitability of the committees of inquiry. On the other hand—and with this I conclude that I do not have more time—there are various aspects, both in the PSD project and in the project of the Left Block, for which we are available to consider and, in this sense, if there is a constructive climate for a specialized work that can evaluate both what is now proposed and what can be developed in the course of these works, for this purpose, we are fully available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u24	Mrs. Members, as the Bureau no longer records requests for intervention for the projects of lein. 694 and 721 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), concludes the debate. We went on to discuss, together, the projects of lein.o 653 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March) ( BE) and 535 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ( legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ), clarifying that any opposition from the condominium to the exploitation of local housing establishments shall be included in the title constituting horizontal property, the condominium regulation contained in that title or in the regulation of condominium or deliberation of the assembly of condominiums approved without opposition and provided that properly registered ( CDS-PP ) generally of draft resolution No 902 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government protect occasional providers of local housing services from any deterioration in the legal regime of local housing ( CDS-PP ), from the projects of lein. 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August as amended by Decree-Law No 63 / 2015 of 23 April 2015 establishing the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( PCP ), 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August, clarifying the scheme for the authorisation of the operation of local housing establishments ( PS ) and 723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines that for every three buildings under local lease the owner shall ensure that the property is intended for long-term lease ( NAP), generally, and for draft resolution No 1218/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of tourist cargo capacity in certain cities and promote tourism activity in areas with lower population density ( NAP ). To present Bill No. 653 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The capture of house fires for tourist accommodation more than it quadrupled in national territory. The data from the national register of local housing establishments are revealing: in the last three years 42 061 spaces have been registered in Portugal. In 2014 13 326 establishments were licensed and, over three years, this number rose to more than 55 000. The problem is not in the growth of an activity sector or in the increase of tourism and its positive effects on the economy. The real drama is that this growth, without rules, is contributing to making access to housing increasingly difficult for more and more people, virtually impossible in large urban centers, such as Lisbon and Porto, with a decrease in supply and brutal increase in housing price.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u27	Ivan lives seven years ago in the ancient parish of Santa Catarina; four years ago, in the building where he lives and on the other side, there was only one local lodging — Ivan was very comfortable with the situation. Today, there are 13 local accommodation units, which corresponded to so many other tenants' evictions. The noise, the parking, the cleaning of the area changed completely, the quality of life deteriorated and the increase in income and the threat of clearance arose. For Ivan, the solution is to get out of town. Predatoryly about cities, companies were formed around the local housing, where there should be an economy of sharing. Hotel groups buy whole buildings, promote the eviction of residents and turn us into tourist enterprises with the designation of « local accommodation ». They benefit from taxation and from the lower requirement of licensing criteria and services. It is not the legislative instability, which does not exist, but it is the liberalisation of the sector, the lack of clear rules, which calls into question the real local housing, that of the family that temporarily rents the room or the house to visitors or students. We want tourism in the city, but, first of all, we want cities. Therefore, we propose an effective separation between what is local accommodation and what is tourism enterprise. The law already predicts it, it's true. However, the liberalisation of local accommodation deteriorated the practice of this distinction, as it is already evident: local accommodation is temporary and is in its own housing; tourist enterprise is intensive and permanent. On the other hand, the impact of tourism and local housing is differentiated from territory to territory, as is also obvious. And that is why we also propose the approval of municipalities for licensing and the definition of quotas per geographical area. Finally, we propose that there should also be a solution to the situations currently designated as local accommodation, but they are, indeed, a tourist undertaking, and therefore we propose a new typology in the context of tourism entrepreneurship, which is that of accommodation establishments. We propose the regulation of local accommodation, so that this activity remains without questioning the right to housing, life in neighborhoods, older residents and younger people who want to live there. This is just the beginning of a debate, and the Left Block is available for completion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u28	To present Bill No 535 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 902 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a country with Web Summit, with entrepreneurship, which wants to affirm itself the capital of the new economy, which wants to be the example of the most friendly regulation of investment, entrepreneurs and new ideas. This is a country that crosses parties and governments and that is made of people who hang sleeves and legislators who make laws that facilitate it to hang sleeves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u31	But then there is a country that cannot live with innovation, which wants to tax everything that moves, to make everything that works, to ban everything that challenges the old economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u32	And this is also a country that crosses parties and governments and that is made of people who want no competition, no change, and of legislators who seek to hold the wind with their hands, preventing that change. These are the two countries that we have here today in comparison with this discussion on local housing and the amendments left to make to the current regulation of local housing. The regulation we have in Portugal was a pioneer. According to the current Secretary of State for Tourism, socialist, this is an exemplary regulation, and I quote: « (...) we are an example of regulation(...) ». This statement is also supported by the European bodies. We have a national regulation which is being able to bring to the formal economy what has been done in the informal economy for decades and which is enabling the development, in security and with rules, of an activity that is sought by people and which is imposed by the times that run. Does this mean it's a regulation that should be untouched? Obviously not, she can and should be improved. But when we have a regulation that is, in the eyes of the Government, exemplary, we must take some care of the changes we want to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u33	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u34	And we have many doubts about the content of these changes brought by the left, because they do not improve regulation, they do not improve legislation, they seek, in practice and with various excuses, to end, ban, to ban this activity. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this activity does not exist because the law foresees it, there is because the economy brought it, people wanted it and tourists want it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u36	I quote another socialist, João Vasconcelos, and until recently Secretary of State of this Government who, on these left-wing proposals, said: « (...) if approved, the activity of the local accommodation is only for those who buy whole buildings. Is it so difficult to live with a successful economic activity without spoiling it? Is this our fairy? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” These questions of socialist John Vasconcelos are exactly ours: is it so difficult to live with a successful economic activity without spoiling it? Oh, my God! Is this our fairy? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u37	The import of night limits or guests seems good in theory, but it is almost impossible to monitor, as they discover today several cities, by pushing this activity into clandestineness. Importing new authorization processes seems good in theory, but it's going back, it's going back to the Simplex trap, it's getting back to procedures, fees, visas, licenses, everything to delay what is inevitable, everything to make it hard. Import quotas seems good in theory, but what quotas are they? Face what reality? How do they measure? What data and what numbers? And do they apply to local accommodation and not to rent or students in Erasmus? The import of condominium case decisions seems good in theory, but how would such a condominium work? The richest getting and the poorest aren't they? Oh, my God! With permanent blackmails about each other, with the changes of decision to happen at any time? If the condominium wants to regulate this matter - and we believe that it can do so - it should use general and abstract rules for all, in a regulation approved by unanimity and registered, so that no process of buying and selling authorisations, which is where the proposals from the left take us. That is the meaning of our proposal, clarifying what seems to us to be the meaning of our legal order. Does this mean, I repeat, that there's nothing to do? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u38	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u39	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the CDS recommends that the Government make a distinction between local, occasional and professional accommodation, with some limitations it intends to make for the latter. This is the way that matters to travel, separating realities and not treating everything the same, i.e. applying to the whole country a regime designed because of some fregueses from Lisbon and Porto. The essential thing to do is in the traditional lease, and the CDS has presented several proposals, which have been piped, in order to make it more attractive. It is an illusion to think that the owners migrate from the local housing to the traditional lease, when the left holds and threatens to worsen the lease regime. This must be substantially more attractive, so that it can be a real alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u40	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u41	I even finish, Mr President, just saying that, if the proposals on the left go ahead, we will have no more rented houses, we will have more informal economy, going back in time, as the left actually wants. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u42	To present Bill No. 574 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To ensure access to housing, to safeguard what is true and unique in every historic neighborhood of the city and to enable the healthy coexistence with those who visit us are the objectives of the proposal that the CFP brings to debate today. Due to the growth of real estate speculation and unplanned and unplanned growth of tourism activity, there have been a number of consequences which, in our view, are not positive. This is the case of the eviction of residents. It is true that many of the evictions come from the law of the lease imposed by the PSD and CDS — and here the CDS has added responsibilities — and that has led to thousands and thousands of residents being expelled from their homes, and that is this right, the right to housing, which we want and we must protect. Other non-positive consequences are the loss of population and the discharacterization of traditional neighborhoods. People who have lived throughout their lives in a historic neighborhood of the city of Lisbon or Porto are unable to continue to do so, because, on the one hand, there is a reduction in the supply of real estate for their own and permanent housing and, on the other, associated prices are prohibitive and unbeliefable for low-income families. The rental values are currently completely speculative and it is not comportable, for example, to rent a T2 housing in Lisbon when the average price is higher than 1000 €. This reality is leading to the expulsion of the population from the central areas of the cities. Instead of access to housing in the city center being a right of all, it is a privilege of very few. The CFP believes that the right to housing must be guaranteed, as well as the right to place and city must be protected. in a democratic society, living in the center of the city can not be a possibility only for an elite with very high incomes, it has to be for everyone. We therefore accompany the Morar movement in Lisbon, when it states that a city has to be inhabited, pluralized and diversified, a city to be lived by all and not only quickly consumed by some. We therefore believe that it is necessary to intervene in a moderate perspective, to contain the disrupted growth of local housing to mitigate its negative impacts on access to housing and on the discharacterization of traditional neighborhoods. Thus, being local housing an economic activity and non-inhabitation, the CFP proposes, in its draft law, that the same be considered as the following: that the condominium be able to authorize the use of a fraction for local accommodation; that, given the impacts of this activity, in particular when it is carried out in buildings where there are common spaces that are used by all, there is a multi-risk insurance on the part of the local accommodation; and that, given that the impact of local housing is different on our territory, there is the possibility — and not the mandatory, as many try to state — of those who thus understand it, in this case the authorities, can intervene in their territory. And it does not necessarily have to be in the whole territory, it can only be in part, so that local accommodation can be regulated in a certain way. It is important to be clear: for the PCP, tourism activity is important, the continuity of the activity of local accommodation is also important, but it is essential that we find the mechanisms and solutions to compatibility the various uses. This activity should continue to take place, but it must ensure accessibility to housing and safeguard the lives of communities and neighborhoods, which is also what visitors are going to look for, because they want to get in touch with this population. If the population goes away, I want to see what there is to show these visitors! I would also like to say a word about the full availability of the CFP so that we can deepen this debate, taking into account an important aspect, which must, of course, be safeguarded, which is the accessibility to housing, ensuring that the populations, the residents, are not expelled from the neighborhoods where they have always lived. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u44	To present Bill No. 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) Mr Luís Testa has the floor of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u45	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party, when in mid-2017 it presented the current bill, had the surgical goal of conforming to a reality in force with the regulatory framework, which, in good rigor, has admitted contradictory jurisprudence, even though it is becoming less contradictory, in fact, increasingly convergent with the PS proposal. But what happened was not only that, but that was the urgent need to open a deeper and broader debate on the legal framework of the economic reality in which the local housing was truly constituted. It was the year 2008 when the government then sought and achieved a regime that included a large number of beds, particularly in bathing areas, and that remained in absolute informality, to which housing tourism and rural tourism were added. The measure was successful and has a name, called « local accommodation». With the latest and growing tourist demand, which is not limited to the historic centers of the big cities, because it is different, scattered and of a different nature, it has become available, through innovative systems, the offer of accommodation which, not having any reception by any of the legal regimes, flooded electronic platforms to offer this type of service, but once again in an absolute informal framework. It was already with this government that the compulsory registration was implemented, in an absolutely remarkable work, that it brought to the system offer tourism of vital importance, to ensure sustained growth of demand, and that it was shown to correspond to three merits. The first merit is to ensure an extraordinarily high value contribution to the national economy, which is in line with all the growth data of tourism in Portugal. The second merit is to ensure a true increase in Portuguese income, through not only the remuneration to those — and are many families — who devote themselves to this activity but also to the thousands of jobs directly created by the existence of their own activity. The third merit is to allow investments, which are responsible for an absolutely remarkable phenomenon of rehabilitation and urban regeneration, which induces an increase in the attractiveness of historical areas and which is revealed every day as a factor of life for agglomerates long since long forgotten and abandoned. However, the pressure created by this whole movement certainly came to collide with, more than interests, rights of all those who inhabit buildings, neighborhoods and even cities. These rights cannot be neglected, nor can the legislator ignore the absolute imperative of reconciling economic reality, which it is necessary to defend, with the rights of residents, that, in its most basic form and attentive to their nature of personality rights, cannot be called into question. The description made for all terms would not be necessary to understand that in the local housing lies economic activity, which promotes investment, which creates revenue and generates wealth, although, being unable to be confused with hotelry, it cannot be described or treated as housing. For, it was in this understanding and due to the status in civil law that we sought to conform to a reality with the pre-existing law, without the need for a procedure to uniformise case law, which, sooner or later, would happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u46	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u47	But we accept that the issue is much more complex than what we have stated and we believe that the debate we are starting today must be profound and compatible with all interests. It is therefore our understanding that we can hear who we have to hear and build a stable and balanced solution for which we will give our contest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u48	To present Bill No. 723 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1218 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u49	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen a phenomenon of diabolization, with the exclusive allocation of blame for the gentrification of some areas or districts of the main cities to local housing, this diabolization reflected in some initiatives under discussion today. Portuguese families, not apart from the growth of tourism, have resorted to local housing to remove legitimate dividends from their buildings. As such, in 2017, Portugal had around 40 000 active records and generated revenues of EUR 1 billion. contrary to the perceptions created by public opinion that local housing is particularly promoted by large investors, it should be clarified that 81 % of the owners have only one unit, 11 % between two and three units and only 8 % of the owners have four or more units. Note that large entrepreneurs, with a number of accommodations between 51 and 300, are only 25 in our country. In addition, the phenomenon of gentrification is not exclusively caused by local accommodation. There are other far more important causes, such as the establishment of foreign citizens in Portugal, which, by taking advantage of the tax benefits promoted by the State and with very high purchasing power, ultimately acquire real estate in the city centres, greatly inflating prices. That is why it is essential to make a deep reflection on this matter before moving forward with measures that can penalize families who have moved forward with large investments. Thus, the NAP proposes measures which, based on assumptions of adequacy and proportionality, aim to improve the local housing regime. As such, we believe that the owners, for every three accommodations, must ensure a long-term leased house or apartment in the same urban area, incorporating this measure a diversification factor that targets only the owners with several local accommodations. In addition, we advocate the allocation of tax incentives to entities and individuals who develop the local housing activity in regions with lower population density, in order to capture tourists to less known and inhabited regions, benefiting local communities and families. Finally, we propose a study on the ability to carry out tourism in the cities under pressure — Lisbon and Porto — and its impact on the level of noise and environmental pollution, urban waste treatment, housing, transport, climate change, health services, water and their scarcity in times of extreme drought and adequate response to emergency plans. Only in the possession of this data is that the country can objectfully debate this topic. [[Mr Cristovão Norte applauds.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u50	Mr Berta Cabral of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, local housing has brought about thousands of small and micro-enterprises, caused the rehabilitation of hundreds or even thousands of abandoned buildings, created tens of thousands of jobs, paid millions of taxes, and all this without public support, without tax benefits, without State subsidies. [[PSD applause.]] So it is legitimate to question, and here we question what people outside are asking: what is behind these initiatives that we are debating today? What lobbies are moving against the local accommodation? Is the usual aversion from the left to the private initiative so strong that it intends to destroy rather than build? How is it also explained that the Prime Minister and the Government disagree with their parliamentary group on the Socialist Party's proposal? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, small entrepreneurs in the housing sector have reason to be afraid of their future and also of their families' future, because with the proposals of the left, in debate in this Parliament, there is no doubt that they will rule the law of the strongest. With these proposals the hotel units win, the small entrepreneurs lose and the local accommodation will be reserved exclusively for those who have financial opportunities to invest and acquire whole buildings. There are dozens and dozens of emails we have received—and certainly all parliamentary groups have received them—of people who are in this activity, who have found in it the job they have lost, the livelihood of their missing family, the occupation of many young graduates who have not found a job, the motivation to continue fighting for a better life. The PSD is on the side of these fighting people. The PSD is on the side of those who build and not those who destroy. The PSD is also on the side of regulation, supervision, resolution of possible topical problems, but it is not with those who fight private initiative for pure ideological prejudice or for other interests, individual or group. We will do everything we can to prevent them from ruining a successful activity that has been a proven factor in economic growth, job creation, fixing people in their territories and urban rehabilitation of our cities, villages and villages. Local accommodation promoted the democratization of tourism activity and the appearance of many other related activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u52	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u53	It should be borne in mind that about 80 % of the holders have only one local accommodation unit and the point problems of gentrification of some locations must be resolved within the framework of city policies and not with national solutions that are proposed and that will only create problems where they do not exist. in the same way, the problems of long-term urban rental are not solved by the repression of local housing, but by positive discrimination measures and long-term lease-oriented incentives. The PSD is available to contribute to the discussion in the field of expertise, but it does not contain us to bureaucracy or to destroy a sector that has been revealed as one of the most dynamic in the national economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u54	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, we turn to point three of our agenda today with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the European Affairs Monitoring Act ( CDS-PP ), 717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( PSD ) and 722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August by strengthening the means of monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union building process ( BE ). Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a presentation of the initiative of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In December 2017, Portugal joined the Permanent Structured Cooperation on Security and Defence. Although it had been planned in the Treaty of Lisbon since its ratification in 2009, the truth is that only in 2017 has been a step taken, a step which is very relevant in the construction of the European Union itself, in a matter of central concern to all the peoples of the European Union and which has to do with the security and defence of our peoples and our peoples in a particularly difficult time for Europe and the world. We, CDS, have been very critical, and again we want to reaffirm it here, in view of the little information the Portuguese Government has given to Parliament, in view of the little public disclosure that the Portuguese Government has made, with the political parties and with the Portuguese society, of the evaluation of Portugal's participation in this mechanism, which is a very, very, very relevant mechanism. For many months the Government refused to give information to the Assembly of the Republic and to political parties and was only under pressure from parliamentary groups, particularly from the CSD and PSD parliamentary groups, which could have a specific discussion on this matter in Parliament, either in plenary or in committee. We have said, and we want to reaffirm here once again that this step in European construction is not a risk-free step, it is not a challenge-free step. For this reason, we have established four red lines with regard to Portugal's participation in this cooperation. The first red line is that this cooperation cannot lead, even in a gradual, involuntary or later phase, to the creation of a European army or an embryo of a European army, because this would be an undue appropriation of treaties and an excess and a federalist exaggeration of those who have learned nothing from the serious shortcomings of the European construction process. The second red line is that Portugal's participation in this cooperation cannot achieve any principle of specialization of the inherent valences of the National Armed Forces, because this could mean a division in our Armed Forces and a very minorization that we do not accept. And, as the Prime Minister of Portugal says, this matter is not a ghost. We simply read President Macron's speech in Sorbonne or President Juncker's statements in 2015 to realize that there is a real danger of such a matter. For us, a third red line is that the European Union must be prepared to assume its responsibilities in the field of security and defence but it cannot neglect and cannot allow this to imply unnecessary duplication of structures, such as those we have today with NATO and the Atlantic connection we have with the United States itself. For this reason, for us, these red lines are not a whim, these red lines are a political position for which we do not compromise. We therefore believe that the effective way to evaluate this process and to ensure that these red lines are not transposed is to give the national Parliament the ability to intervene in these matters, including scrutiny and follow-up, which today the law on monitoring European acts does not give us. That is why we propose that an annual debate be held at the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, with the participation of the Government, in which the Government tells us what is happening in the CEP ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ), but also that there may be a follow-up to the positions that the Portuguese Government will defend at the sectoral meetings that are foreseen in the European Council on defence through the Committee on European Affairs and the National Defence Commission. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u56	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u57	We also defend that there is a specific chapter on Portugal's position on the CEP in the follow-up report on integration in Portugal. These are our proposals, but we certainly follow the proposals of other parliamentary groups, because we want this debate to be as serious, as wide as possible and as inclusive as possible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u58	To present draft law No. 717 / XII of the PSD, Mr. Carlos Costa Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the facts. First of all: Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation on Security and Defence is a key decision for Portugal and the European Union in the current geopolitical context. in fact, it constitutes a qualitative change in Portugal's participation in the European Union. Fact two: therefore, the procedure relating to options such as this is regulated in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in the current Monitoring Law and in the Treaty on European Union itself, which ensure parliamentary scrutiny, which is, in fact, essential for democratic life and respect for the rule of law. Fact three: Despite this, the Government has removed Parliament from the entire negotiation process, ignoring successive and persistent appeals from this House. Fact four: Despite the deliberate omission of the Government, at the time of the decision, Parliament distinguished the national interest and supported Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation by a large majority. Fact five :supported but laid down conditions for the three resolutions adopted. I remind you: do not compete with the participation of Portugal in NATO, do not lead to the constitution of the European army and do not presuppose the specialisation of the national armed forces of the Member State to the Member State. But we didn't stay that way. Parliament wants to know the operational and financial impact of this option and wants to know the implementation plan for permanent structured cooperation. They're endless requirements, red lines if you want them. The operational and financial impact falls within the sphere of the absolute reserve of competence of the Assembly of the Republic and the implementation plan is an instrument where Portugal explains the binding commitments it undertakes, whose compliance, I recall, will be assessed by European institutions and these will apply sanctions in the event of non-compliance. However, it is unacceptable and it is unacceptable that such binding commitments subject to the evaluation of European institutions should not be closely monitored and scrutinized by the Assembly of the Republic. What does the Government say after committing itself to discussing the implementation plan with Parliament? Now, it says that such a document is secret — secret, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Dutch one is available online! The scrutiny of Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation in matters of security and defence is not merely an extension, it is an essential duty for democratic life in a rule of law. from there that we have presented, with the known contours, the bill that is at the disposal of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u60	To present Bill No. 722 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has arisen in a very specific debate, which has already been mentioned here but which is important to mention again. In December 2017, this Parliament, in plenary and committee, although limitedly, discussed the integration of Portugal or not in permanent structured cooperation, the mechanism found to follow a will that exists since the signing of the Lisbon Treaty on a common European defence and security policy. This process raised many doubts and it was clear that there is no consensus on the matter. On structured defence cooperation, the Left Block reiterates its fundamental political position: it is a mistake that will have very negative consequences for European citizens and respond to a militaristic drift that we have completely rejected. however, the process of debate on permanent structured cooperation has led to another important debate: is the law of monitoring, evaluation and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of European construction appropriate to the current political moment and to the increasing institutional changes that are emerging by the European institutions? Is Parliament's role enough in these matters? Do we continue to avoid the debate on the democratic deficit of the European project? With the process we have had and with the bad example that was given with the process of permanent structural cooperation, the lack of information, when in fact there was already a decision taken by the government, is one of the bad examples of how this European project distorts and will continue to distort democratic debate in national parliaments. Therefore, this theme should be the focus of the bills, and this is what concerns the Left Block. On the other hand, there is a dichotomy of criteria in the parliamentary debate: on the one hand, there must and must be a huge public scrutiny and on the other hand, on the other hand, there is absolute secrecy and, not by chance, European themes that have direct consequences for the lives of citizens are always far from that public scrutiny which is necessary for some subjects and others not. Therefore, the Left Block considers that including specific debates to the accompanying law is not enough. What will happen when there is another type of enhanced cooperation proposal? Do we add another point to have a specific debate on enhanced new cooperation? That's not enough. We believe that there has to be an amendment that meets a broader inclusion of new moments and methods of assessment and pronunciation of the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore propose that matters involving Parliament's reservation of competence be put before the Government's assessment and approval in the Assembly of the Republic, as well as the duty of information on ongoing negotiations, which includes all the information necessary for parliamentarians to have the ability to discuss and decide on matters. For the Left Block, the duty of transparency is not a mere pro-formity nor serves only at certain times, always serve and not as a political weapon. We do not forget that both the CDS and the PSD have been champions of the lack of transparency in many moments of our democracy, especially in the European debate. So the sudden concern of these parties does not convince anyone. Finally, Mr President, leaving a final note: the process of European construction and whether or not the possibility of participation and pronunciation of national parliaments has been hurt since its inception, because it has never been supposed to be a process or a democratic project. The consequences are seen today, with the need to have, as national parliaments, more voice on certain matters, than we do not have. It is on this subject that debate and reflection should be made, which should remain for the national Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u62	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fundamental issue of this debate, despite the issue of the bills under discussion, is the policy of permanent structured cooperation, which is, after all, a pompous name for the militaristic policy of the European Union and for the constitution of the European army, of which it is embryo. In fact, permanent structured cooperation and the European army are one and the same thing. This exercise that the PSD and the CDS try to make them accept permanent structured cooperation but not the European army is to throw sand into people's eyes, because to say yes to one is to say yes to another. If there is any political step that can be taken to stop the European army and its constitution is precisely that of halting permanent structured cooperation at the moment. On Permanent Structured Cooperation, the position of the CFP is and has always been very clear. We understand that this is another step of worsening European militarism and bellicism policy, which essentially aims to attribute military capacity to a structure that increasingly meets all the criteria to be characterized as an imperialist pole, which also means the loss of sovereignty within the framework of the national decision and, as such, the loss of an important capacity of our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u65	The draft laws of PSD, CDS and BE, despite differences, do not alter the nature of the policy around Permanent Structured Cooperation, only assign to Parliament — and we see no problem at all — more ability to follow this process and the process of building policies around Permanent Structured Cooperation but without questioning its construction. We can say that on the side of the PSD and CDS there is another intention of whitening and an attempt to characterize this policy as a potentially democratic process than a genuine interest in knowing its various dimensions. But let's not be mistaken, sirs. Members, because, regardless of the vote this House can do, given that most of the Members are committed to the direction of vassaling to the European Union and the abandonment of national sovereignty, there is no way of making the constitution of a European army democratic, nor is there any way of making European construction democratic when it is made in this context. In fact, these projects end up being, like many others, another layer of makeup to make it appear democratic what by nature is undemocratic. Destroying national sovereignty is intrinsically destroying democracy, regardless of the number of parliamentary debates on this issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u66	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Although focusing on the same subject, the three bills under discussion have a diametrically different meaning, and it is only on them that I will intervene and not on other issues that are not at issue today. Bill No. 722 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) BE, aims to introduce a systemic change to the monitoring regime by the Assembly of the Republic of European Affairs. On the other hand, the projects of lein.os 711 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), of the CDS, and 717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD, aims to introduce casuistic changes that do not alter the general meaning of the regime of parliamentary monitoring of European affairs. The Socialist Party has repairs to be made in relation to the legislative process—and this is because it is an accelerated process, without reflection, without weighting and bothering—that is how it relates to matters of institutional importance, as they do, and to relations between the Assembly and the Government — and to the substance of all these bills. The draft law of the Left Block, even after amendment, aims to introduce a mechanism of approval by the Assembly of the Republic of Positions to be discussed by the Government in the European institutions. However, the current Portuguese constitutional model is clear: there are two types of subjects which correspond to competences other than the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to matters in which there was no transfer of sovereignty — a concept that is often used — there is no question as to the deliberative powers of the Assembly of the Republic. In contrast, the subjects in which there was a transfer of sovereignty to the European Union in accordance with Article 7 ( 6 ). the Constitution is the subject of the powers of the European institutions, in particular the European legislator, which, in some cases, integrates the Portuguese Government. On these matters, when debated in the European institutions, the Assembly has the power to pronounce when it comes to those which, if they had remained in the strict sphere of the national legal order, would have reserved competence of the Assembly, or, more importantly, have powers of monitoring and appreciation. In no place — I repeat, in no place — the Constitution assigns or allows the Assembly of the Republic to be given power by law to approve government positions in European affairs. As for CDS and PSD bills, we cannot fail to observe that they simply aim to introduce casuistic changes to the flavor of recent political debates and without any systemic or overall vision. These projects, in fact, escape most of the matters that really imposed or justified legislative amendment. Even in the context of the casuistic changes they propose, these projects are not without repairs. For example, it is not understood why the PSD proposes, in a situation of clear sectorality, that it be the Prime Minister to participate in the debate in plenary on behalf of the Government and not the sectorally responsible ministers. The CDS bill does not present this problem and therefore deserves some differentiation. For these reasons, the Socialist Party has concluded that it is not yet time to make a draft own law on the subject and considers that an appropriate legislative process on the monitoring of European affairs by the Assembly of the Republic is not compatible with hasty decisions, without systematic vision or time of weighting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u68	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the banking minimum services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ). To present the initiative of your party, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate to a bill that aims to change the minimum banking services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of bank customers. over the years, banks, abusing their dominant position, have been imposing increasingly high prices on their customers for banking commissions. In some banks, the weight of bank product commissions already exceeds 40 %. This is an unacceptable situation which strongly penalises bank customers, whether private or corporate, and which translates into forced payment of income to banking institutions. Unfortunately, the administrations of the General Deposit Box, following the guidelines of successive governments or in the face of their liabilities, instead of asserting a strategy of differentiation of the public bank, adopt management criteria online with the private bank. This is an example of the increase in accounts maintenance committees in order, which, a few months ago, the General Deposit Board decided to impose on its customers. The public bank, instead of setting an example in this area, defraying banking committees, joins the board of private banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u71	In the face of the abuse by banks in respect of commission collection, a legislative intervention is needed to ensure that citizens have access to basic banking services and that, at the same time, protect them from the abuse of so-called maintenance committees. This is exactly the objective of the bill presented by the PCP, which is achieved through changes to the minimum banking services regime. This scheme, established in 2000, had a very weak accession, resulting from the limitations associated with the order deposit accounts made available under this scheme. In fact, 18 years since the establishment of the scheme, there are only 40 000 bank-minimum service accounts, a drop of water in an ocean of tens of millions of accounts in order in our country. We need to correct this situation. The CFP proposes two amendments to the minimum banking service scheme, with a view to eliminating some of these limitations: firstly, we open the possibility for a citizen to be, at the same time, holding a bank service account and holding other accounts in order not covered by this scheme, in the same or other banking institutions; secondly, we ensure that debit cards, made available under the banking minimum service scheme, become the same functions as other credit cards, in particular allowing them to be used abroad and in low-value payments for which the introduction of PIN is not necessary. These PCP proposals guarantee bank customers access to an appropriate set of banking services while protecting them from the undue collection by financial institutions of so-called maintenance committees. These are therefore proposals that respond to the needs of banking customers and are just and necessary proposals that require implementation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u72	To intervene in the debate, I now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascenção.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the CFP for the presentation of this very relevant initiative. According to data from Banco de Portugal, there were approximately 39 000 bank accounts in the first half of 2017. This is a service that has slowed down and remains ridiculously low looking at the reality of the country, that is, if we consider that there are about 730 000 workers who do not take more than the national minimum wage, which are more than 820 000 families benefiting from the social energy tariff, or that there were 2, 6 million Portuguese at risk of poverty in 2016, that is, with less than 5442 € of annual income. These people are not undesirable by banks as their customers, because they do not offer them the profitability they crave. The financial system therefore emerges as a great social exclusion agent. There is great resistance from the bank in making this type of account available to the population and, therefore, there is a need under the law to change this scenario and to make banking services generally accessible to the population as a public service and as a very essential service that they are. To this end, the Left Block recently presented draft resolution No 1080/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), which recommends the automation of identifying potential beneficiaries of the scheme and their automatic availability by financial institutions. The limited use of these minimum banking services is explained not only by the bank's resistance but also by the very restrictive conditions of access which are laid down in the law, and therefore makes every sense to simplify these rules. The fact that someone is entitled to another bank account should not be an inhibitor, because it is typical of Portuguese people who have their accounts entitled by someone of confidence, for a matter of security. The increase in bank fees has been the mine for banks to compensate for the crushing of the financial margins, the fall in interest rates and to clear from their balance sheets the toxic assets, which they themselves created, guided by their infinite greed. Maintenance costs rose by 40 % from 2007 to 2015 according to DECO, which is absurd without matching the value offered to customers. The weight of all the commissions on the banking product is already 40 % and neither does the public bank escape this concerted upward movement of the banking commissions, thanks to which it is obeying the booklet of private management by agreement with Europe for its recapitalisation. It is a scandalous situation that the taxpayers who came to the recapitalisation of the CGD are now being excommunicated by the Commission itself. Banks charge commissions because they do, because they have great market power and they use that power for their own benefit and because it is appropriate for everyone to raise the value of the commissions. There is therefore no competition and the reality lies in the myth that the bank, once privatized and with greater competition, would offer better conditions to its customers. Banks go up to committees because they are not stopped for this purpose and the Left Block does not run away from their responsibilities and says 'present' in defending the interests of the population and access to an essential service which is a bank account. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP bill we are discussing today, on minimum banking services, relates to the fair, very fair concern, to the banking committees and the way banks have used or, better, have abused these committees, having transformed them from a remuneration of a service, which is what they should be, into a real source of virtually unlimited revenue. This concern of the CFP is fair, we share it and the CDS of course has all the openness to look for solutions that solve this problem, because it is a problem not only of individuals but also of companies, which are faced with all kinds of commissions, often outside of the law, which expressly says that the commissions have to have a service as a counterbalance. However, I leave some concerns and even perplexities with regard to the PCP project, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here calling charges charged by the General Deposit Box as a draft and the Left Block said until it was a scandal. So, ladies. Members of the CFP and BE, you have been supporting this government for more than two years, they are already in the third budget of the State that makes it possible and, therefore, if it is a plan and if it is a scandal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u76	They had three chances to end it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u77	... do something because this bill that is discussed here today has nothing, I repeat, has strictly nothing to do with the commissions that are charged by the General Deposit Box. The gentlemen. Members have to take responsibility and realize that if they really want to change something in the General Deposit Box committees, instead of making speeches, they do something that changes the commissions that the General Deposit Box charges. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's just that coming here discussing other types of projects seems to me to be very unhelpful. In fact, it is as useless as draft law No 92 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) submitted by the CFP, on the basis of the basic account, which prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure and other charges by the services provided under that account, and which said that this intention should, in the opinion of the CFP, be immediately complemented by the intervention of the Ministry of Finance, influencing the banking market, as a shareholder, by limiting the collection of commissions by the General Deposit Box. Mrs. Members, this was in January 2016. This project has been stopped for two years in the Committee on Budgeting, Finance and Administrative Modernization. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be important to start discussing and voting on projects that are pending instead of inventing new ones that give news but do not solve a problem in people's lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u78	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 637XIII ( 3. ( a ), of the CFP Parliamentary Group, seeks a change to the minimum banking services regime and assumes the existence of a very frank accession to this service. This conclusion is supported by two facts: the customer cannot hold another account in order and the banking system does not allow facilities for credit discovery and overruns. Therefore, the PCP bill essentially introduces the possibility of customers being able to have, at the same time, deposit accounts under normal conditions and a minimum service account and credit institutions may offer facilities for discovery that allow them to exceed credit on debit cards. On this question of membership has already been mentioned here, but I would like to point out that there are about 40 000 bank-minimum service accounts. However, in the first quarter of 2014 there were only 10 000, which shows that there was an increase of four times the number of accounts in the last three years. Therefore, there is a marked evolution here, which weakens the argument presented. The objective of the creation of accounts is also based on the principle of financial inclusion and access by citizens to low-cost services and essential products. Currently, a customer cannot be held from another account to order, and this is the only requirement for access to the bank's minimum service. The end of this requirement, in our understanding, would distort the minimum banking services regime and would not represent any incentive to open new accounts. Moreover, this second situation would call into question the true financial inclusion, the final end of the creation of the bank's minimum service. In fact, the regime could even be permeable to abusive situations. It should also be noted that only in January has an amendment to Decree-Law No 107 / 2007, which extends the possibility of interbank transfers within the European Union, which advises us to exercise some caution in the amendment and evaluation of these amendments which have only now entered into force. Finally, I would like to point out that, in view of this whole conditionality, it is the understanding of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that it will be more advised at the moment to assess and verify the evolution of recent amendments and to verify and monitor how they will evolve. We therefore believe that this is not the most appropriate time to promote these legislative changes; first, it will be necessary to evaluate this implementation and only then, if necessary, to revisit this issue within the scope and also with the objective of ensuring universal access to minimum banking services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u80	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing today is another chapter in a legislative process with 17 years of existence, minimum banking services. This theme is essential and basic for the daily life of Portuguese. Things as simple and as important as access to an account in order, to a multibank card or the possibility to make transfers. We have always taken this issue as a central concern and the changes made by us to the previous mandate have had very positive effects on the access, at reduced costs, of banking consumers to services considered essential. There have been several changes that have been made by us, namely: we made offers by all banks of bank service accounts to all Portuguese; we made it possible for the bank accounts of the elderly population and people with increased needs and follow-up to have more than one holder, and this was one of the main constraints or bottlenecks to access this type of service; we also contributed with changes so that no one would be excluded from the banking and financial system. These were measures of justice and social equity. We are therefore in a position to state that it was because of these legislative amendments that witnessed the duplication of the number of accounts with these characteristics in the last two years. But the amendments that we have introduced have not been left here, because we have established a decisive general principle regarding the collection of unjustified commissions, such as, for example, the maintenance and management of accounts based on average balances, and we have forced banks to charge commissions only when they were associated with them. It is true that this chapter has not ended, there will be a need to densify this concept, but there are several aspects in this PCP bill that are not acceptable. Having said that, it is also unfair for banks to pay for services that are not provided, it is still unacceptable for a bank to charge us a commission because we are being charged with a benefit. from this point of view, we have not heard anything from the CFP ; we have heard, yes, complicity about what is going on in the last year of mandate regarding the General Deposit Box, the public bank. The gentlemen. Members of the CFP and the Left Block, who have both proclaimed the brutal increase in committees, and I would like to say to them, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the banks currently charge EUR 5 million per day on committees, anything like EUR 1000 million per year — in disguise this situation, they do not present to us anything concrete on this issue which concerns the Portuguese daily. What I would like was that, in some way, if measures were introduced that would help banks not to charge, indiscriminately, commissions to all Portuguese, but, on this point, what we have heard was exactly a setback in the legislation itself that already exists — legislation that has solved much of the problems of the Portuguese — which little added to this parliamentary debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u82	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The limitations imposed on access to bank minimum service accounts have a clear objective, namely to remove customers from these accounts. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, remove the customers from these accounts. Banks do not like — they never liked — bank service accounts. It is that, in this scheme, maintenance committees are limited by law to just over €4 per year and banks want to be able to charge more, much more, by these committees, in what has been transformed over the years into a real circle of bank customers. That banks want to pry their customers, maximizing their profits, it's not surprising. But what you need to know here is which side are the PSD, CDS and also the PS. on the side of the bankers allowing the continuation of this board, or on the side of the bank customers — individuals and companies — to hold this board? from the PCP, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt which side we are on. We are on the side of bank clients, defending their right of access to banking services and defending them from abusive practices of bankers. There is no doubt about that. We would like to know how PSD, CDS and PS stand in this area: do they intend to let the bank continue to practice the long-lasting board? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u84	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the fourth point of our agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that all parliamentary leaders have agreed that the votes will begin immediately, so we will start this process. I would ask the services that operate the electronic quorum verification system so that we can register. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 200 presences, to which are added 3, of the PSD Members Amadeu Soares Albergaria and Luís Pedro Pimentel and PS Member António Gameiro, making 203 Members present, and therefore we have a quorum for deliberation to proceed to the votes. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 459 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Antonio da Silva Figueiredo, presented by the CDS-PP, PS, PS, BE, PCP and Les Verdes. I would like to ask Mrs Emília Santos to read the above-mentioned vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u85	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on December 28, Maria Antonio da Silva Figueiredo, Under-Secretary-General of the National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives ( CONFAGRI ) and of the Portugal Agricultural Credit, and Vice-President of the General Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives of the European Union ( COGECA ). Natural Alvaiázere, Leiria district, was an agronomous training engineer. He joined CONFAGRI in 1988 and since Portugal's accession to the EEC then was the Portuguese woman who took on the role of greater association representativeness in the field of agriculture in Brussels. She was also coordinator of the Department of Market Policy and Prices and of the areas of Aid for the Income of Farmers of CONFAGRI and, since 1997, President of the Observatory for Agricultural Markets and Agri-Food Imports. due to its recognized quality of communication and deep knowledge in the agricultural area, it dynamized for RTP content related to activities developed in the Portuguese rural world, reproduced since 2004 in hundreds of programs, and participated in numerous colloquiums and seminars with cooperative technicians and agricultural associations and farmers throughout the country. Maria Antonio Figueiredo was an energetic, combative and dedicated woman, who devoted much of her life to strengthening the cooperative movement and Portuguese farmers, so not only the cooperative sector, but the entire national agricultural sector is poorer with its departure. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and all those with whom they have deprived, recognizing the importance of their legacy for the national agricultural economy. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. I also express my feelings to the leaders of CONFAGRI, here present, and to the family. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 460 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Teresa Ramalho, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS Deputies. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u86	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the second day of January 2018, the actress and writer Maria Teresa Ramalho died. Born in Lisbon in 1927, he was known by the general public as Tareka, after his participation in the program The visit of Cornélia, together with his son Toze Martinho. He participated in numerous television productions, such as TV soap operas Origins, Crosswordic Words, Safety Men, Richardina and Marta, Water Eyes and Feelings, among many others. He also entered the series Una Aventura, inspired by the books written by Ana Maria Magalhães, his daughter, and Isabel Alçada. He published, under the pseudonym Angela Sarmento, the first book, The Tree, in 1961, following The Long Days in 1968, and The Beira da Estrada, in 1974, The Time of Truth in 2002, and Look at Me in 2014. Resident, since his marriage with João José Ramalho in 1961 in Salvaterra de Magos, was rightly honored by this municipality in 2015, with the exhibition entitled A spring-life dream and work of Teresa Ramallho (Tareka). His long activity dedicated to the arts and culture was remunerated with the great affection of the Portuguese who, especially through television, knew her and recognized the greatness of her life and talents. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, presents condolences to the family and friends of Maria Teresa Ramalho, Tareka. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to vote No 462 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Guide Maria, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, BE, and PSD. I ask Secretary Idália to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u87	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with sadness that the Assembly of the Republic received the news of the death of Guide Maria, actress that the country used to admire. Maria's guide was born in Lisbon on January 23, 1950. Early he embraced his career in theatre, being trained at the National Conservatory and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. In 1978, he entered the Resident Company of the National Theatre D. Maria II, to which he belonged until 1998, the year of the extinction of the company. He participated in numerous pieces, some of great popular success, as was the case of The Monologists of Vagina, by Eve Ensler, who was on stage at the Studio Theatre of the Casino do Estoril, already in 2000. He also made cinema next to directors such as António Macedo, Artur Semedo, João Botelho and Lauro António. on television, he entered several series and soap operas, which allowed him to show his talent to the general public. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at their disappearance to the family and friends of Guiding Maria. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I inform you that you are in the family galleries of the actress Guide Maria, to whom I also present my condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us turn to vote No 463 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Sentencing for the facilitation of the use of the death penalty in Israel, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Members. I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u88	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "on 3 January, the Israeli Parliament adopted at first reading a bill that will facilitate the application of the death penalty to those convicted of deadly attacks or terrorist crimes in courts. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that ‘in extreme situations there is also a simple logic, and simple logic is: if anyone kills and laughs, he will not spend the rest of his life in prison, but will be executed. ’ This language promotes hatred and war in a region that despairs of peace. It is recalled that the last death sentence issued in Israel dates from 1962 and led to the execution of the Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann. The European Commission rejected this decision through its spokesperson Carlos Martin Ruiz de Gordejuela: ‘The EU opposes the death penalty, in all circumstances and without exception, and we are working for universal abolition. ’ This first vote by the Parliament of the State of Israel, taken by little margin, challenges the most basic principles of international law and human rights, basic elements of the Portuguese Constitution. Portugal celebrated in 2017 the 150 years of abolition of the death penalty. on this occasion, the Assembly of the Republic must not cease to condemn a decision like this. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the vote of the Israeli Parliament to facilitate the use of the death penalty in Israel and calls for its non-approval in final vote. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on that vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and votes against PS Member João Soares and CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u90	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u91	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u92	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I will deliver a vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u93	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u94	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u95	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u96	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u97	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 738/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allow the use of analytical results obtained with spot samples in the monitoring of polluting discharges ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1190 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures for the depollution of the Tejo River and the closure of the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1191 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt surveillance and environmental action measures to mitigate the harmful effects of pollution sources in the river Tejo ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1244/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the defense and integrated protection of the Tejo river basin ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1207 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to defend the Tejo river basin ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1216 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures recommended in the follow-up report on pollution in the Tejo River, promote monitoring of the river course and water quality, promote the review of the Albufeira Convention and take a position on the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1217 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to disseminate and facilitate the application of animal welfare legislation ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u98	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u99	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u100	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u101	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, following-CL would be the general vote on draft law No 724 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of ill-treatment of animals and related articles ( PAN ), but the NAP submitted a request, requesting its discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote for 60 days, therefore it is important to vote on this request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1219 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a working group to develop a plan to prevent and deal with the cases of Noé's syndrome, better known as « animal accumulation » ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 694 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Legal System of Parliamentary Investigations ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we just voted down to 1. the Commission. Let us now vote, also in general, Bill No. 721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations ( amends Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. It is now necessary to vote on a number of requests which I think can be voted on together, but in order to do so, we must establish a common deadline, because, although its objective is the same, that is, the Commission's discharge without a vote of its initiatives have different deadlines. If there are no objections, I think we can establish 60 days as a common deadline for all. [[Pause.]] With no objection, then we shall vote together on the following lowering requirements to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for the 60-day period: submitted by BE, concerning Bill No. 653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March ) ( BE ) ; submitted by the CDS-PP, concerning Bill No 535 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ( legal regime for the operation of local accommodation) clarifying that any opposition of the condominium to the exploitation of local housing establishments shall be recorded in the title constituting horizontal property, the condominium regulation in that title, where appropriate, or in the regulation of condominium or settlement of the assembly of condominiums approved without opposition and provided that properly registered ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolution No 902 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government protect occasional providers of local housing services from any deterioration in the legal regime of local housing ( CDS-PP ) ; submitted by the CFP on draft law No 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August as amended by Decree-Law No 63 / 2015 of 23 April 2015 establishing the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( CFP ) ; submitted by PS on draft law No 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August, clarifying the scheme for the authorisation of the operation of local housing establishments ( PS ) ; submitted by the NAP on draft law No 723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines that for each three buildings under local lease the owner shall ensure that the property is intended for long-term lease ( PAN) and draft resolution No 1218/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of tourist cargo capacity in certain cities and promote tourism activity in areas with lower population density ( NAP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The initiatives which we have just voted on are therefore lowered by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing without a vote for a period of 60 days. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the European Affairs Monitoring Act ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill we just voted down to 4. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u102	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u103	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u104	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u105	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 717 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u106	Mr. President, I'm sorry. May I use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u107	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u108	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will also present a statement of vote in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u109	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August by strengthening the means of monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( BE ) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u110	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u111	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u112	Mr President, it is to be announced that on the vote on the three draft laws on the follow-up to the European Union building process, Mr President. Mr Jorge Lacão, Mr Margarida Marques and myself will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u113	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr José de Matos Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u114	Mr President, it is also to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on the vote on Bill No 722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u115	That intention is recorded, Mr President. The vote on an application submitted by the CFP was followed by a request for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the banking minimum services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 817 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Immediate construction of IC35, between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the NAP and with the abstentions of the PS and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u116	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u117	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u118	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u119	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1082 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a new class of vehicles for the application of toll rates corresponding exclusively to motorcycles ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u120	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u121	Please, Mr. Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u122	Mr President, it is to note that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u123	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 395 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the development of a study and a manual of good practices for the homes of the elderly, the strengthening of social security supervision for these institutions and the strengthening of public responses to the level of continued care and home support for the elderly (BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 862 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Review of the career of Social Security Inspectors ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Emília Santos will give us an opinion presented by the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 3 of the Central Criminal Court of Braga, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No. 963 / 13.6TABRG, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to intervene in the said case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-05.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote and, consequently, to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Tuesday — attention, Tuesday! — at 3 p.m. and the agenda shall be summarized in the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I think you are having a record today, as soon as we finish the vote, so I still wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 9 minutes.]]
