ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 18 minutes.]] I'm asking you. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. I request the Secretary of the Duarte Pacheco Bureau to take note of an opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission, which we shall have to vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which relates to the suspension of the mandate, have submitted to the Bureau a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ), a electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by João Miguel Castro Fonseca, to take place on 24 October 2018, limiting itself to the period of the day previously indicated, ending at the end of the appointed day. The opinion is in the sense of suspension and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I inform the plenary sitting in the diplomatic corps gallery a delegation from the Interparliamentary Group of Friends of France-Portugal of the French Senate, which visits the Assembly of the Republic at the invitation of the Parliamentary Group of Homologous Friendship, to which I would like to greet you. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, let us start the agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 118 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create and regulate the issue and use of the identity card of diplomatic and consular agents. To open the debate, there is Eurico Brilliant Dias. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative is part of the Government Programme under the Simplex Programme. It is a measure that will contribute to the process of modernization and innovation of the State, with a view to greater efficiency in the provision of services to beneficiaries of the diplomatic status. In fact, the approval of an optical reading document reinforces the physical safety component of the card, compared to the previous model, still today constituted only one card in paper support. In fact, Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, removal and removal of foreigners from national territory, with subsequent amendments, provides for Article 87 (1). the, which is not required to reside in diplomatic and consular agents accredited in Portugal, to administrative and domestic or equivalent personnel serving in diplomatic missions or consular posts of their respective States, to officials of international organisations based in Portugal and to members of their families. pursuant to paragraph 2 of that Article, recipients shall be authorised by an identification document issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, consulted by the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) and their providers shall be granted a visa entry into national territory. The person responsible for issuing this card is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more specifically the State Protocol. with regard to administrative simplification, the procedures to be adopted for the issuance of the new diplomatic identification card consist of new information and communication technologies, which translate into higher levels of efficiency through the presence of personal data collection, more specifically of facial image collection, signature and processing of relevant personal data in a computer application strictly created for this purpose. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the issuing entity of diplomatic passports, has an interface for the transmission of information between the SEF and the House of Currency, which will be used for the communication of data between the said entities involved in this process. This database will only have access to the entities involved in its issue, in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The adoption of this new diplomatic identity card will increase the effectiveness of the provision of public services by reducing the time of its issuance from about 30 working days to 5 working days. The reduction of bureaucracy and the defence of data protection and the adjustment of this initiative to the practice of other Member States and international organisations will place Portugal within the framework of the countries which have adopted a diplomatic identification card which is appropriate for the days ahead. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u5	Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary, this proposal submitted by the Government is necessary because it is necessary to update the identification documentation referred to by the Secretary of State, which is in line with the guidelines coming from the European Union, but also from the International Civil Aviation Organization, which requires an update of the procedures followed in Portugal. Thus, the new identification card model will allow guarantees of reliability and also the necessary documentation. However, the Secretary of State for the opinion we have received — the Secretary of State has also received — from the Trade Union Association of Portuguese Diplomats, where some warnings are made to which, I think, you must pay attention. Of course, he notes that there are foreign citizens, but also national citizens who may perhaps be holders of this card — in the legislation that you present to us is not safeguarded — and he also notes that you can include administrative and domestic staff or be equipped with this situation. We therefore warn the Government of this matter. We also call for another point written in that opinion which we believe would be equally positive if it were to be mentioned in this proposal by the Government, which is reciprocity, and that the Social Democratic Party is accompanying. The privileges and immunities of the holders must be on the back of the card and must also be dependent on the principle of reciprocity. Finally, the Union of Consular Workers and Diplomatic Missions in Foreign also sent us a very interesting opinion on the issue of honorary consuls. Mr State Secretary also points out that honorary consuls are national citizens and that they may also use that card. Of course, the Social Democratic Party follows this bill because this is an update that is almost mandatory. Whether or not it is the will of the government, it must be done because international institutions so force it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u7	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the discussion of this bill, by which the Government intends to obtain authorization to create and regulate the issue of the diplomatic identity card, is today, in plenary session, a few months after the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities has endorsed and approved its opinion, which was drawn up on the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, and which I have fulfilled myself will prepare it and to Mr Nuno Magalhães present it. As was clear from the July debate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities has no reservation to the submission of this bill. It seems to us that the legislative initiative of the Government informs the technical specifications already set out by the relevant international organisations, in particular the European Union and the International Civil Aviation Organization. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at an unprecedented innovation and digitisation process, updating the diplomatic identification document to an optical reading format is not an option, it is an inevitable. We always believe that it is an avoidable practice for the Assembly of the Republic to pronounce itself in a dogmatic or administrative manner without giving a proper voice to the competent authorities, and in this debate it should be stressed that the CDS-PP, even though it was aware of the consultation made by the Portuguese Government to the National Data Protection Commission, it intended to request the approval of the entities which appeared to be most relevant to us, in particular the SEF, the Trade Union of Portuguese Diplomats and the Trade Union of Consular Workers and Diplomatic Missions, which is why we did so and we duly recorded the contributions annexed to that opinion. Finally, it seems important to us to highlight, by its relevance, the fact that the principle of reciprocity in granting the diplomatic identity card is exclusively confined to the definition of family members, as was warned by the Trade Union of Portuguese Diplomats itself. We too, the CDS, believe it to be of the greatest interest — and I quote — « to state clearly that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may interpret the mechanisms for granting the diplomatic identity card, but also as regards its viability and freeness in relation to any State, in response to a similar attitude on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this same matter and in equal circumstances in relation to national diplomatic and consular representations accredited in its territory». We therefore hope that the government, in this and other matters, will know how to listen and not just impose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u9	Mrs Odete João, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Proposal for a Law No 118 / XIII / 3. it establishes a law of legislative authorization to grant the Government authorisation to create and regulate the issuance and use of the diplomatic identity card to be granted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which the Government has joined the decree itself. This initiative, in respect of personal data, which has expressed constitutional protection in respect of the rights of freedoms and guarantees, falls within the legislative competence reserved for the Assembly of the Republic. The diplomatic identity card, which is heard by the Foreign and Border Service, is granted by the State Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which it is responsible for the authorisation and processing of personal data. The diplomatic identity card model is completely exceeded and therefore it was imperative to carry out its update, making it safer and more reliable. These are the two essential conditions, and it is certain that this modernisation of the diplomatic identity card is part of the administrative and simplification modernization programme that the current government has taken forward. The new card is optically read and Portugal has evidence given with the accumulated experience in the issue of the citizen card and the electronic passport. The new card complies with the safety policy guidelines set by the European Union and the International Civil Aviation Organization and, of course, complies with the technical requirements required internationally. The identity card is issued for diplomatic and consular agents accredited in Portugal and for their staff, as well as for officials of international organisations based in or represented in Portugal, and we therefore welcome some of the comments that have already been made here. The holders of this card are exempt from residence authorization, exempting them from entry visas into national territory, and this is a measure that simplifies and makes the use of these identification documents more effective. The title and the size of the diplomatic identity card ensures the immunities and privileges provided for in the conventions on diplomatic and consular relations signed in Vienna, of which Portugal is a signatory. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore believes that this proposal for a diplomatic identity card is part of the national and international legal framework, meets the requirements required, is an administrative simplification measure, is an effective measure, is a measure that is thought of in the security and data protection reserve and puts Portugal at the forefront of the countries that have adopted the diplomatic identity card for optical reading. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u11	Mr António Filipe of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite time being scarce, we are not going to spend everything because this matter gives us no objection. I would say that, as a matter of relevance, it is a matter of more will. We understand that for constitutional reasons the Government has to pass ‘card’ to the Assembly of the Republic, asking for legislative authorization to pass cards to diplomats accredited in Portugal, but of course we have no objection to pointing out that the Government passes the cards that are necessary to pass to this end and we will therefore give our consent to this proposal for legislative authorisation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your capacity for synthesis and clarity. The Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party did not sign up to intervene and the PAN Member is not present. The PSD still has time, but it does not manifest itself in this sense. [[Pause.]] You have the floor to close the debate, the Secretary of State of Internationalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also using the 2 minutes reserved for me, I would just like to thank the comments, which will naturally be taken into account and which will enable us to have the diplomatic identification card more safely.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u15	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which is generally based on the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 133 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of young associivism. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am very pleased to be here on behalf of the Government to present this proposal for amendment to Act No. 23 / 2006, the so-called law of youth associationism, and I would like to begin by saying that this is an amendment to a law that responds to an association movement which is very plural and diverse. From youth associations to student associations, to youth parties, to the escutist and guidist movement, it is here that we also frame the so-called informal groups of young people, as well as all the like entities. This proposal is familiar with a course that started right here, with an announcement in 12. the Commission, in which I, as Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, affirmed the intention — which, in essence, reflected the will of the sector — that this law should be reviewed. After that, I announced to the Youth Consultative Council the amendment to the law, asking for contributions to its members, creating a working group in which, in addition to the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth, in addition to the National Council of Youth itself, also the National Federation...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u17	Excuse me for interrupting you, Secretary of State. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing up and talking to sit down or leave the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u18	Mr. President, I said that this working group has since involved members of my office, but also members of the National Youth Council, the National Federation of Youth Associations and the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth. After several meetings of the working group, a proposal was made, which was presented to the Youth Consultative Council and which, of course, deserved the necessary hearing and approval of the National Youth Council. In short, and very briefly, this proposal for amendment to the law unequivocally brings benefits to the young association movement in our country, from the fiscal point of view, something which has long been claimed by the sector itself, as well as reducing the minimum number of young people needed for the constitution of both informal groups and youth associations themselves. We therefore believe that we are promoting the creation of young associivism and, with that, allow me to say it, to create schools of citizenship and participation a little across the country. It is true that we also had to update what had been done 12 years ago. 12 years ago, the law introduced the need for these youth associations, as well as their directions, to consist of a minimum of 75 % of young people under 30 years of age. We understand that it was time to empower young people even more and that we are in a position to do, given the maturity that, today, young associationism has in our country. Therefore, we introduced the limitation of the age of the presidents of the associations, who will have to be up to 30 years old. We do not, of course, neglect the work that many associations do for the country, so we have created youth associations so that they can also continue to have State support in the development of their activities. Mr President, in a very generic way, this is the proposal that we bring to the House and this, of course, is the proposal that we would like to see the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll approve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u19	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Due to their specificity and importance, youth policies and their transversality have occupied their own space within the national and international spheres. The Constitution itself enshrines exactly the idea that youth policy should have as priority objectives the development of young people's personality, the creation of conditions for their effective integration into active life, the taste for free creation and the sense of service to the community. In all these parameters young associivism has a fundamental role, being a model of participation recognized not only by society as by Portuguese law itself. I remember that last year we had more than 1380 associations in the National Register of Young Association. This role is so relevant that Article 70 itself. the Constitution enshrines the idea that the State, in collaboration with families, schools, companies, resident organizations, associations, foundations of cultural purposes and collectives of culture and recreation, encourages and supports youth organizations in the pursuit of these objectives, as well as the international exchange of youth. Well, this government has promised a legislative amendment to the thousands of young people who are involved on a daily basis in association and have said that this amendment would come in a few months. But it didn't come in a few months. Time has been dragged and a process that should have been faster and faster has become a political embarrassment to the government. In view of this, several parties presented, precisely here, in the Assembly of the Republic, for more than a year and a half ago, a set of proposals while the government was embroiled and ashamed of the young and student associations. The PSD did not make a proposal for accountability, like other parliamentary groups. Here, in Parliament, a working group was set up which had been stopped for more than a year on the pretext that it was waiting for the Government's bill. And finally, that proposal came. We discussed today a diploma that recognizes the value and merits of the PSD initiative, since it was to drink to many of the proposals that our party has put forward. We agree at least in the diagnosis and with a large part of the solutions. However, for this work, although the government could have been faster. Even because it is consensual today that the youth association sector needs rejuvenation, as Mr. Secretary of State recently mentioned, needs to involve younger people and, fundamentally, needs to renew some of his leadership. However, the legislative amendments do not end there, nor can the debate be confined to that. This bill has merit that, in our view, should indeed be recognised. However, we do not follow the Government's proposal in its entirety and, above all, in the strategy that followed, in the chaos that it created in the youth sector, promoting widespread division, discord and dissatisfaction. This is the legacy of the government in the youth sector, a sector divided and in comparison with the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u21	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the members of the Government present in this important debate, which is not only about formal changes to the law of young associations, but that it will have a direct involvement in the life of so many young people who in Portugal devote much of their time, out of their classes, out of their work, to associationism and to civil society a very important contribution. This debate is not new, it has been a few years. in fact, it begins before this legislation has begun. This is the first criticism we also make, i.e. that this review could have already been made. Their discussion could, at least, have already been launched in the previous legislature. The Left Block also played a role in the discussion of this matter in the previous legislation, but in fact the subject was for this legislation. The Left Block presented a legislative initiative about a year and a half ago, with a set of proposals for amendments to the law of young associations, proposals which, together with initiatives from other parliamentary groups, eventually came down to their Commission for discussion in a working group set up for this purpose. At the same time, the Government launched an important discussion with the whole national association movement, with the FNAJ (National Federation of Youth Associations ), with the CNJ ( National Council of Youth ), with several district federations, with small and large groups of young people and, in fact, the criticism we have to do to this process is that it also sinned because it was late. But that is not what prevents us from being now in an open debate and full of proposals to ensure that today's bill to Parliament can leave the House of Democracy with the assurance that we are responding to all the needs that young people and youth associations place on Parliament and on the government. A question — which has already been put here before — relates to improvements from a fiscal point of view. It makes no sense that the State wants, on the one hand, to promote citizenship and political and civic participation and that, on the other hand, asks, immediately to the head, for the simple creation of a youth association, a value that often young people, sometimes under 18 years of age, do not even have the capacity to pay. So this is an important step, and we see a significant improvement there. Another issue concerns some deburocratization in the process, which is also important. We are always talking about young layers, which often do not have professional support in much of their associations, and it is important that on the part of the State there is this commitment of support, of assistance, for all those who want to be part of the national youth association movement. On the other hand, there are still some edges to clean. One of them relates to the age limit, a debate we have already had here. Another edge has to do with the new figure created with youth associations. It seems that both can be resolved in the Assembly of the Republic. The Left Block, in a specialized process, will present proposals for amendments in these fields, always with a logic based on three ideas. The first idea concerns a power of cohesion that cannot be lost. These associations have a power of territorial and social cohesion that we should not attack, on the contrary we must ensure that it is fostered. Secondly, we will take into account the strengthening of the youth associations themselves, with the various mechanisms already mentioned here. Thirdly, we will look at the renewal of our own directions, which is a fundamental function for them to continue to exist. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u23	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Rita Rato of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are discussing today, as has already been said, a bill that amends the legal regime of young associations. 12 years have passed since the adoption of this legal regime and we would say that many and important matters would probably be subject to change. This is not a substantive proposal for revision, as, moreover, are not the proposals which have been discussed in this House on this subject, presented by the various parliamentary groups and which are under consideration in a 12 working group. the Commission. It should also be said that in 2006 — and indeed, this bill, like all the proposals put forward in this House, except for the proposal of the CFP, maintains this forecast — has chosen to apply a legal regime to youth associations and student associations as if we were talking about equal realities, when in fact they are not. In fact, applying this legal regime to local youth associations, associations of high school students and associations of higher education students is to want to treat in the same way things and realities that are frankly different. in the opinion of the PCP, and as a result of the reflection that we have done over 12 years, this makes it difficult to speed up access to public support by youth associations. Moreover, for several years we have presented here the proposal of a national plan for the legalization of student associations directly turned to this matter, and there was never availability of PS, PSD and CDS in relation to this proposal. We are discussing here today a bill that amends the 2006 legal regime and would like to start by valuing what is important to us. It has been very important for us to ensure the exemption of costs for legalisation by youth associations. Only being legalized is that youth associations can register in the National Register of Young Associativism ( RNAJ ). Only when they are registered in this national register can they apply for public support. Therefore, it is obvious that the exemption of costs, for legalization purposes, meant removing a first filter in access to public goods. And this, in our view, is very important, which is why, moreover, for several years, we have been getting beat for it. During the last government, the PSD and the CDS, we have repeatedly made this proposal to Mr Emídio Guerreiro and, at the time, Secretary of State for Youth, drawing attention to the importance of this matter. There was no consensus or willingness to discuss it. Today, we are discussing it, and we are doing so in order to ensure and facilitate access to public support by youth associations. We therefore understand that this is an important matter. It will not solve all the problems, but it is a step forward on this issue. Then there are aspects to which we have doubts, which are related to the possibility of the creation of youth associations. We already believe that the budgetary relevance of public support for youth policies is very limited. To allow young associations, which are not, but have a young character, let us say, as is stated in the bill, to dispute the same fund of youth associations is not very advantageous, nor do we understand the true dimension of the problem, when today the law of 2006 already provides for the equalization of other associations than youth associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u25	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u26	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that on the part of the CFP we will work in the field of expertise with the draft law we have tabled, with the proposals we have on this matter, for the respect and diversity of the youth associative movement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u27	Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - firstly, health this government, because, more than 10 years after the entry into force of this law, it is important that we have a government with a reformist vision and that it has made the balance of what was the law that governs youth associationism. After making this assessment, with a process that has been involved, which has taken the necessary time and in which all interested parties of the sector have participated, we have here today an amendment to this law which will be discussed, taking part in this process the Youth Consultative Council, the partners in the course of the routes promoted by this Government and also the working group that has been set up within this Parliament and which is coordinated by Mr Diogo Leon, this amendment which brings us here today a number of proposals aimed at improving the legal regime of youth associations. It is a good law, first of all, because it creates the category of youth associations with a specific support program, because it reduces the number of young people required for recognition in the RNAJ ( National Register of Young Associationism ), or because it reduces the number of young people required for the establishment of informal youth groups. It is also a good law because it eliminates the distinction between the associations that are made up of young people within the national territory and those that are made up of young people who are in the diaspora, young people who, being in the diaspora, are still luso-descendants and are thus closer to that which is the culture of their country. But it is also a good law because it promotes the increased rights of student associations and a series of tax exemptions and benefits. From then on, the exemption from fees and emoluments relating to the establishment of new youth associations or the possibility of allocating 0, 5 % of the IRS to youth or student associations. However, it is not surprising that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party brings us here today. In fact, if the proposals presented by the Social Democratic Party to this Parliament are so mature, it is strange why they were presented by means of a proposal which was made by the Socialist Party. It is that we know that if the Social Democratic Party were government, associationism in Portugal would certainly be a flourishing field, and that would save us from the political embarrassment of today we see the Social Democratic Party defending proposals that know that, if it were government, they would never be implemented in our country. If the Social Democratic Party were government, we would never be exempt from fees and emoluments in the creation of new youth associations, we would never have the provision of 0, 5% of the IRS to youth associations. So what we can conclude is that the Social Democratic Party is very diligent to make proposals, but that is when it is in opposition. That is why they can say what they want, but, of course, no one believes: the sector does not believe, nor do the Portuguese believe. Finally, Madam President, I would like to reinforce that this Government is pleased. This is a law that will not be perfect, but which will now be discussed in the specialty. Having elapsed the right time and being the Government of Congratulations for its reformist vision, this is a law that is good and that, once again, I repeat, makes the Government happy because it had the courage to legislate and implement that which is a reformist vision for the sector, after more than 10 years of implementation of this same law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u29	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The theme of young associivism is relevant, I already had projects in this House and now also has a government bill so that we can change the law. The CDS has been engaged in this debate either through the Parliamentary Group, here in the Assembly of the Republic, or through the participation of the People's Youth in the various spaces in which it has the opportunity to express itself, in particular in the CNJ and the CCJ ( Advisory Council for Youth ). Our view of this change is a positive view of the reformist impulse, but it is also a vision of concern to each of its aspects in the sense that, by changing such a relevant law, we will change in the right direction. There is here a question, probably the most relevant of this legislative process, which is the age of the presidents of the youth associations. We understand the principle of reform that is included in the bill, but we know the reality of the country and therefore we understand that the transitional period already contained in the law should be very well analyzed. As a transitional period, even as a future solution in which there are different incentives for those who have a reality or another, we think that this aspect should be kept open for a simple reason: it is obvious that, who laws on youth associations, says that, in principle, a youth association should be chaired by a young person. It happens that, for example, in many interior districts, as we were told by several federations of youth associations and by FNAJ itself, there is often difficulty in this generational renewal of the presidents of youth associations. And it would not be a good law to force older presidents to be replaced by absentee presidents. Now, what happens often is that those who could preside over youth associations at that time, usually for academic reasons, are, in most of the time of the week, out of the place where these associations are active. Therefore, replacing older leaders with absent leadership is not a good solution, and we must guard against this in this process of law review. On the other hand, it also raises the greatest doubts about the creation of a new kind of associations to frame this reality, not only the budgets, as has already been said here, but also the one that results from the confusion between different types of associations, because we know that at this time, associations that raise some doubts about themselves, indeed, the youth character is the main activity of these associations. Finally, I would also like to say that, with regard to simplification amendments, we should be careful that they will not be effectively frustrated in their implementation. I say this in relation, for example, to those who make exemptions, but which, consequently, make it compulsory to have organized accounting. If the organised accounting runs on behalf of the associations, they will not compensate for exemptions because the cost will be greater than the benefit. In summary, there is a total openness and commitment of the CDS in this legislative process, we believe it can be productive and positive, but we think that necessarily no changes will be made in the specialty to achieve these objectives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u31	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor to close the debate, Mr Secretary of State for Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u32	Mr President, I would briefly say that, as the song says, « much more is what unites us/ than what separates us». I do not think that I am misreading the speeches I have heard from the various parliamentary committees if I think that we are in agreement with the meaning of the amendment that the Government is proposing to the House for this law of young associivism. Finally, criticism, which I can point out, is the issue of this, allegedly, which has arisen late. It does not seem to us that way and it does not seem fair to us because what was involved was, above all, to listen to the sector, to the various representative entities, organizations and platforms, to the youth parties themselves and to the Youth Consultative Council. So I think it is better to take a little longer and present a better job than, as it is usually said, want to do the thing in a hurry and not have good results. in my remaining time, I wanted to highlight only one question. Often, we place a lot of emphasis on the issues of funding for young associations. It is clear that funding is an important component, but it is not decisive. Young people are not only looking for money, young people are looking for places that allow them to exercise what better young associations can give them, which is the school of leadership, public participation, activism. And it is very important that this can be done precisely while you are young. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport. The general discussion of Bill No 140 / XIII / 3 follows. a ( GOV ) — Authorises the Government to establish the sanctioning regime applicable to the exercise of commercial maritime fishing activity. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Fisheries has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the sea area, I come forward with a proposal for a legislative authorisation law on the legal system of counter-ordinations in fishing and which wishes to respond to three commitments. A first international commitment to the sustainability of fisheries resources management, a responsible fishery, with an effective fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, to achieve coherent measures, is in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) 20 - 30. On the other hand, a European commitment arising from the application of the rules of the common fisheries policy, as rightly stressed in its 2013 version of the basic Regulation, should be quoted : « Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure the control, inspection and exercise of activities carried out under the common fisheries policy, including the establishment of effective proportionate and dissuasive sanctions ». It is in this sense that the European Union has a common control regime, Regulation ( EC) No 1244/2009, and an implementing Regulation 2011. These two Regulations are the core of Member States' obligations in the field of control, penal rules for fishing, control, inspection and enforcement activities against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in order to ensure the sustainability of fishing in the medium and long term. For years, this regulation has been adopted in national legislation, perhaps weakening our position in the context of compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the third commitment also results from this: at the time of the adoption of the Operational Programme Mar 2020, in 2015, the adoption of an effective legal regime for the sanctioning of fishing offences and strict compliance with the European control rules was entered as an ex ante condition. We are therefore implementing three commitments, implementing the requirements of European regulations and the country's commitments. The draft law submitted by the Government to this House aims to improve the system of enforcement and sanctioning fishing-related infringements with a view to making our legal regime more effective and in accordance with European rules. The adoption of the proposed legislative amendment law will enable the Government to establish as infringements of Community regulations which are not yet in the national legal framework. The adoption of this scheme is essential to ensure the financing of the sector under the Mar 2020 programme, as well as the resolution of the EU Pilot process opened by DG MARE ( Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries ) against Portugal, underlining Article 41. that of the basic Regulation, which the Union's financial assistance to the Member States will depend on how they comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy. The text of the authorised decree was technically agreed with the European Commission but we are naturally available for adjustments to that text, always within the limits of applicable Community legislation. The aim is to ensure the sustainability of fishing activity in the medium and long term. We want to adopt measures that allow the perpetrators not to be penalized by the actions of the offenders, which is also a matter of the most basic justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u35	Mr Ulisses Pereira, representing the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The legislative authorisation under discussion is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, which aims to reconcile fish and aquaculture activities with the preservation of long-term marine resources and consequently of the ecosystem. It therefore comes in line with the rules laid down to control illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. This is not only an obligation of Portugal, but also, in our view, an added value for our fishery products. in a globalized world, it is of national interest that fishery products from our country are recognized as sustainable, in environmental terms, that fishing is considered an activity with the future. in this sense, the PSD monitors the need to legislate on the matter and will contribute to the speed of its process, thus avoiding Portugal being penalized through the suspension of Community funds. Mrs. Members, let us be clear: the PSD understands the need for Portugal itself to make adjustments to the regulatory framework for the exercise of maritime commercial fishing, defining the effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties and preventing the repeat of infringements on the part of precursors. However, some of the novelties set out in the draft decree which the Government has annexed to the legislative authorisation raise doubts - these doubts that may jeopardize the application of the penalty framework of this activity, with financial and procedural consequences for the Member State and for economic operators. I am referring to three areas where I believe that the Government can and must review the legal standards presented. First, at the level of definitions of serious, not serious or very serious infringements, classified by State counter-ordinations listed in Article 12. this is supplemented by Article 17. the, through the application of a point system. in fact, these standards appear to exceed the purely counter-ordinary or sanctioning nature as described in Article 2. The proposal of the law. Second, at the level of the greater responsibility of the undertakings that are proposed, there is no provision for the exclusion of liability of legal persons when the individual agent has acted against orders or explicit instructions from those who are entitled to law. in the same sense, it is expected that the partners of the company will respond jointly to the fine. This responsibility, let us say, without guilt, has been one of the biggest concerns expressed by the sector. Third and last, at the level of the competence of the National Fisheries Authority, recognizing the merit of the single platform of the information registration, data protection is expected to be ensured in a material and legal sense. Mrs. Members can expect the PSD the same sense of state that always characterizes us in the position on this subject but we also expect from the Government the clarifications and adjustments necessary for the diploma in favour of the sector and the compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u37	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As defined in the proposed law, the legislative authorization is to allow the Government to amend the legal regime of the counter-ordinations relating to the exercise of the commercial fishing activity by improving the effectiveness of the regulatory legal framework. The Government intends to establish its sanctions regime, with a view to implementing the common fisheries policy and related regulations. In this respect, however, the Portuguese Fisheries Association Movement has requested the drafting of an opinion, which we have in mind and which, we think we know, has been made known to the Ministry of the Sea in good time. By ensuring that the Secretary of State for Fisheries knows the opinion and will be interested in examining its content, we can assume that he will be seriously concerned about the criticisms and numerous repairs raised in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u40	In fact, and with the exception of a better view, rather than an indication, it seems to us that the Government's proposal must be reviewed, given, according to the opinion that we report, sickening illegalities of different nature, unconstitutionalities and even a simple lack of legal and legislative techniques. Without seeking an exhaustive assessment, neither near nor far, it is clear that the proposal exorbitates and exceeds the scope of authorisation which is actually granted to the Government and which is thus proposed to legislate beyond its competence. In addition to the flagrant organic unconstitutionalities arising from this, and without prejudice to other equally interesting matters, we see, for example, that there is a lack of punishment for infringements, particularly serious ones, whose concept lacks clarity and precision. Equally relevant is the confusion resulting from serious infringements being subject to an inexplicably unequal and disproportionate sanctioning regime. The intention to regulate and increase the value of the fines resulted in a loss of an adequate prior classification of the infringements. As a result, and to keep the situation unchanged, we have as inevitable that certainty and legal certainty will be seriously affected. Therefore, it seems to us that it is enough to justify that, in our view, it does not clearly meet the necessary conditions to be approved, much less to be implemented. As we are sure that the effectiveness of the regulatory framework is one of the primary objectives that the Government has declared to achieve by means of the proposed legislation, it seems to us that this desire will be seriously damaged. Mr Secretary of State, the Government intends to adopt the proposal it has tabled. In turn, the CDS intends to cooperate in fulfilling the commitments of the Portuguese State, in respecting the rules for the control of the common fisheries policy. however, it will certainly understand that the CDS does not agree, however, with the approval of a diploma that it considers to be widely improved. So, and in conclusion, we need to ask ourselves the following: will the opinion of the Portuguese Fisheries Association Movement be considered in any way, with a view to correcting and improving the legislative project? Specifically and without prejudice to the other matters that we have already covered, will the innovation of the automatic accountability of companies by the acts of their employees, even against orders or instructions expressed, and the same be said of the automatic responsibility of the holders of social bodies, partners or associates? In short, since there is all interest in an effective, fair and speedy counter-ordering regime, will the Ministry of the Sea be available to amend the diploma, in particular those suggested? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u41	Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The objectives of this proposal are to improve the legal and sanctioning framework and to update the list and classify the seriousness of the counter-ordinations in the context of commercial fishing activities. There must be more monitoring of illegal acts or attacks on fishing or the environment. As is known, the Left Block has always been struck by a balance — difficult, true — between the social needs of fishing workers, consumer safety, the protection of resources and the preservation of the marine environment. The updating of this regime has become especially necessary because of irresponsible and even criminal acts of some — very few — shipowners, almost always the same. However, let us not forget that this regime is closely connected with the bad European point allocation system created by Decree-Law No 10 / 2017. From then on, we manifested the greatest concerns with regard to that diploma. It is that the allocation of points is made on the vessel's fishing licence, and, in the case of transmission of the vessel's property or charter, the points already applied remain on its fishing licence, devaluing it, if the shipowners intend to sell it. It's like we wanted to sell a used car and the buyer had to keep our history of fines and eventually have to pay them to be able to travel with the car. We are not talking here about a regime that applies only to the « Onassis » of our sea, because we have none in Portugal. in our country, the sector consists mostly of very small companies, where, in most cases, shipowners are also fishermen and where entire families, in the sea and on land, can depend on the activity of a small boat. The sector has objected to this scheme of points, and rightly so. Nevertheless, this proposal, submitted in response to subsequent requirements of the European Court of Auditors, does not substantially alter the system. Although we know that it will have been discussed with the sector, the proposal presented here maintains some failures, omissions and confusions, which need to be reformulated. Firstly, there is no reference to situations where the agent of the illegal act does so, in evidence, without express orders from the company, or even, contrary to the indications of that act, thus leaving it in a frame of great legal fragility. Then there is a difficulty in defining the category of serious or very serious infringements. What is there is only a classification of fine amounts and there is not even a clear list of less serious counter-ordinations, as opposed to serious ones, as appears in other sanction schemes. In addition, there is an amendment in the proposal to the legal system of liability of legal persons, which seems to us to obscure the scope, meaning and extension of the proposal for legislative authorisation itself. The responsibility of the counter-ordinations also rests with the holders of the social bodies, partners or associates who jointly respond to the payment of the fine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u43	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u44	I shall conclude, Madam President. It seems strange to us, for example, to deal with liability in the case of limited liability companies—exactly limited! — the entry of capital into the company. In short, from the point of view of the Left Block, the Government has put forward a proposal here that, as you are now, does not serve the interests of Portuguese fisheries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u45	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In view of this proposal, it is perfectly legitimate for the fisheries sector to feel even more abandoned. In fact, many are the sector's complaints that have long been waiting for answers that take time to arrive and every passing day, the feeling of asphyxiation increases. However, we are discussing here today the proposal where the Government is applying for authorisation to establish the sanctioning regime applicable to the exercise of the commercial maritime fishing activity. It will certainly be a favourable proposal for commercial fishing, but it does not seem to us that the same can be said for Portuguese fishing, for small fishing, for artisanal and coastal fishing. Mr. Secretary of State, they are fisheries of different dimensions. They are fisheries which cannot accept the same regulation as regards supervision, fines, etc. They are fisheries where homogeneity in the assessment of infringements, the size of fines, bureaucratic procedures, etc. is discouraged. Of course, fishing and, above all, Portuguese territorial waters need to be monitored, but a serious monitoring, against the predation of industrial fisheries, referred to as 'commercial', especially from other countries. As we know, the CFP has insisted, above all for budgetary reasons, that there are many lacks of means, ships, equipment and human resources necessary for the proper defence of the national fishing heritage. This is the priority and necessary intervention of the State. But no! The concern is to increase fines. It doesn't cost anything and it's much easier! What is proposed here is a fundamental change in the regulation of fishing activity in accordance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy and of the European Court of Auditors, in particular to force the system of points. Does the Government think that, with this regulation, it is practicing a patriotic act for small shipowners and fishermen? Portuguese fisheries do not need more fines, more bureaucracy, but other conditions that make our fishing activity profitable. I give you examples, Mr Secretary of State: funds for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet; improvement of conditions on land — ports, dredged bars, support facilities for fishermen; substantial improvement of the price of fish on first sale, in lot, and exploitation of fish; substantially improved training and working conditions; reduction of operational costs, in particular fuel costs. Finally, these are the problems of the sector that the Government has inherited, as a result of the right-wing policy of the PS governments, the PSD and the CDS, but which, unfortunately, when we are walking towards the end of the legislature, will leave entirely to resolve, despite all the political and financial conditions so that they will largely have an adequate response. But if the other parties approve this bill, one thing is certain: it will leave them the permanent threat of colossal fines and greater bans on fishing, which is the livelihood of those fishermen. by the CFP, this will not happen and we will vote against. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u47	Now, for an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The sea has been used in the most different forms and activities, highlighting fishing, which persists throughout generations. In Portugal, it employs about 13 000 workers for a turnover of EUR 400 million, catching approximately 100 000 tonnes for nearly 7 000 registered vessels. On a global scale, fish catch and processing are expected to be the sector with a greater expression in the number of jobs related to the economy of the oceans in 2030. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea determines that each State is responsible for the respective coastal zone and, together with the other States, is responsible for the sea of all. in this way, coastal States are obliged to make a set of rules and methodologies for maritime monitoring, control and safety. in Europe, Portugal endorses the common fisheries policy as an integrated tool in the pursuit of long-term economic and social sustainability, which regulates access to the waters and fisheries of the various fleets of the European Union, which promotes fair competition in compliance with the management rules, which seeks to manage a common resource which, although renewable, is finite, with the main threat of over-exploitation ; shares control, inspection and operation of the activity, including the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, ensuring the application of effective and effective sanctions, coordinated by a single entity of the State. The European Commission has already warned about the need for a review of the legal framework for fishing sanctions. It has also been established as one of the conditions for the approval of the Operational Programme Mar 2020, determining in support of the common fisheries policy and the integrated maritime policy co-financed by the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The European Court of Auditors considered that the Member States did not carry out this control adequately, essential for the sustainability of the sector, requiring them to impose sanctions, weigh the recurrent infringements, repeat infringements, ensuring equality in the exercise of the activity. It is in this context that we address the initiative arising from the Bill No 140 / XIII / 3. a and decree-law to authorize, with a view to improving the effectiveness of the regulatory framework for maritime commercial fishing; improving the system of enforcement and sanctioning infringements; updating and introducing greater speed and effectiveness in the process of counter-ordination; considering weighting factors for recurrent or repeated infringements; regulating the notification regime of the offender, witnesses and the form of proof production; consolidating the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Security and Maritime Services as National Fisheries Authority. Sector entities were heard, assuming the need to improve and regulate punishments, with adjusted rules. The Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira have been heard, which have spoken favourably, without prejudice to the exercise of the powers of the governing bodies themselves. We therefore register the Government's initiative on the control, responsibility and counter-ordination of commercial fisheries, which considers the Portuguese reality and the European Union and pursues the sustainability of fishing in Portugal as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u49	The Bureau no longer registers. The Secretary of State for Fisheries therefore has the floor to conclude this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I address Mr Ulisses Pereira's speech. In view of the comment and the proposal made by the Portuguese Fisheries Association Movement, particularly with regard to the responsibility of the administrators, we believe that it is possible to clarify this point, exonerating them in some circumstances. We will take this into account, because we believe that it is possible, within the proposed law, to respond to this aspect, as well as, of course, all the adjustments that are in line with Community regulations have our position to open up. however, there are points on the question of the common fisheries policy which is indeed good to clarify. The requirement for a diploma with points in the event of serious infringements dates back to 2011. We published this diploma at the beginning of 2017, corresponding to a commitment by the Portuguese State, when the Mar 2020 Programme was approved, to have that diploma approved by the end of 2016. E was approved by the Council of Ministers at the end of 2016. Regarding the value of counter-ordinations, it is also good to clarify the following: there is no increase in the value of counter-ordinations, there is a link between what is the infringements and the value of counter-ordinations. And I would like to say to the honourable Member of the CFP a very clear point: the value of counter-ordinations in fishing dates back to a legislative initiative of the then Government of the Socialist Party, in 1998 when the Pay Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals was set up, and all the revenues of the counter-ordinations are directed towards financing this Fund. Therefore, when you criticise the fines, you are also criticizing a source of funding from the Pay Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals. I would therefore like to clarify that point. Then, some of the issues raised here have to do with Community rules. Points are allocated, but the regulation also states that, after 3 years without infringements, these points are withdrawn. The Regulation and the diploma also provide for the way in which actions are taken to reduce the points assigned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I said at the outset, there are three commitments: an international commitment, in terms of sustainability and combating illegal and unreported fishing; a European commitment, which results from being in the European Union and from having to respect the common fisheries policy; and a national commitment, taken in particular at the time of the adoption of the Mar 2020 programme. We are available to make all necessary adjustments, but always...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u51	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u52	... in fulfilling what is the Community regulation and the commitments of the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese State towards the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u53	We have concluded this point and said goodbye to Mr. Secretary of State for Fisheries. We will continue with the fourth item on our agenda, which is the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 142 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime for the collection, processing, analysis, availability and use, storage and destruction of cells and tissues of human origin for scientific research purposes, including stem cells. To present this bill, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill seeks, above all, to cover a gap in the legal regime of scientific activity in Portugal with human cells. It is a process that has been discussed with the scientific community for at least the last 10 years and introduces three critical issues in this legal regime: first, the criteria for the collection of human cells, including embryonic stem cells; second, the terms for the storage in cells and tissues banks; third, the provision of an information system, in order to ensure that information as a public good. The legal regime was developed in a way that clearly chose not to create any new regulatory structure, using and valuing a state laboratory, the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ( INSA ), to give all logistical support to activities of regulation, registration and disclosure of information. It is, however, important to refer to three critical aspects in the impact of this regulation: first, to extend the scope of scientific activity in Portugal, equivalent to a diversified range of European countries, both Spain, France, Denmark and Finland ; second, particularly important aspect, to reduce and cancel the dependence of scientific activity in Portugal especially in the United Kingdom, since today scientific activity with cells and tissues is particularly dependent on clinical research centres in the United Kingdom ; third, and even because of this, in the current European context, has strengthened Portugal's ability to attract researchers and companies, as well as clinical tests that are mainly developed in the United Kingdom. They certainly realize the important impact, in the current European context, of this legislation. Finally, I would like to refer to the procedure. It was a long process, started about 10 years ago, which involved the scientific community, either in the area of biomedical engineering or, above all, in the scientific activity in molecular medicine, and which was also discussed in this Parliament. As you know last August, we approved and published the new legal regime for clinical research activity, which allowed to establish in Portugal clinical academic centers and is also associated since July last year with the installation of the Clinical Research and Biomedical Innovation Agency. Therefore, with this legal regime, we have now seen to strengthen the scope, reduce the dependence of external actors and, above all, attract to Portugal activities which are now mainly in the UK framework and which, in particular in the European context, as regards participation in Portugal, have been rather postponed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u55	The Bureau recorded the inclusion of Mrs Marisabel Moutela of the Socialist Party for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u56	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: Scientific knowledge, advanced technologies and genetic discoveries have opened up to us a new world of genetic exploitation, which can revolutionize our health by enabling us to discover new and different diseases and detect potential future deficiencies, thus unquestionably contributing to our health and quality of life. It happens that scientific research, particularly when cells and human tissues are involved, must comply with very rigid standards and be primary to the fulfilment of ethical principles, credibility, confidence, quality and transparency, never losing sight of the protection of human dignity. Any diploma that seeks to establish the legal regime for the use of human cells and tissues requires a balance between the requirements of the fundamental rights of the citizen and the needs and gains of scientific research in the field of health and to protect citizens and the very research of the commercial interests generated around biotechnology. The Government initiative that we are discussing today, with which we are pleased and pleased with, aims to lay down the rules on which the collection, processing, analysis, storage, use and distribution will be permitted, with the aim of scientific research on assisted medical matters and procreation (PMA) of human cells and tissues, in which stem cells are included. This initiative sets out very clearly the objectives of this research, restricting them to prevention, diagnosis, detection of origin and treatment of diseases and to improving techniques of drug-assisted procreation. It is an initiative that removes any possibility of applying biological material in other human beings, in the context of clinical trial, medical or surgical action. It is an initiative that guarantees human protection in its autonomy, vulnerability, confidentiality, freeness of action, non-discrimination and non-stigmatization. Finally, it is an initiative that, after collecting contributions from recognized entities and scientists, is now presented to the Assembly, so that we can also contribute. With this initiative, Portugal takes a huge step in scientific research in the field of health and assisted medicinal products and approaches the most advanced countries in this area. The Socialist Party also welcomes this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u57	Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u58	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The objectives of the regime now proposed, in our view, simplistically, are, among other things, to improve the conditions, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and to contribute to the improvement of LDCs techniques, of course, in uses for scientific purposes. the presence of the Minister in this debate. It is thus meant to simply legislate on the use of cells and tissues of human origin for the purposes of scientific and technological research, a matter which, in our view, is of undeniable importance and a great deal of current importance for the promotion of research in our country. Indeed, Mr Minister, the social advantages arising from scientific research in these areas are indisputable, particularly when it is intended to prevent diseases, to improve their treatments and even to improve the techniques of LDCs, and it is, of course, excluded from the application of this biological material in human beings, since this situation is well remembered by the honourable ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has already been the subject of its own legislation. however, please note two previous questions that have been put to us. First of all, I refer to the legislative process itself. The opinions accompanying the bill, all of them dated 2016, as they have noticed — which is also mentioned in the technical note presented by the services of the Assembly — incorporate numerous suggestions that seem quite valid to us, but, as they should have done, they refer to an earlier version of the initiative, therefore, to a preliminary draft. This, in our view, prevents a valid, linear, direct evaluation that was necessary to effectively take into account these opinions of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ), the National Council of WFP, the National Commission for Data Protection ( CNPD ), among others, which, despite being quite interesting, would contribute to an initiative for which they did not pronounce themselves. A second question, which we highlight as very positive, concerns the fact that, contrary to what happened to the debate on the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — which, as they recall, was about the legal regime of quality and safety of procedures for codification of human tissues and cells and incorporated two Community directives — in this case, more seriously, if you chose not to make a debate on two controversial proposals in the area of health with the same time grid of 3 minutes. We therefore understand that this is the right way to conduct the debate. in this scenario, Minister, the PSD considers it essential, and it will be intransigent in this regard, to ensure that scientific activities related to this matter, of course, such as science and health, always respect—and, in our view, it has to be so — the dignity of the human person and the rights of individuals, whether in general terms or in respect of those who can actually participate in investigations whose regulation is now proposed. It seems to us generally that the initiative is seeking balanced regulation of the procedures provided for, but we believe that there are issues that should be particularly considered, such as the use of surplus embryos, consent to the collection, availability and use of this material and the form given to the processing of personal data, which, for us, are of undeniable ethical importance and cannot be ignored. Similarly, we will assess, in the field of expertise, why this evaluation must be carried out, the form proposed for the establishment of a coordination committee, as well as for the establishment and operation of cell banks. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why the PSD will always be available to work in favour of improving the health conditions of all Portuguese people, and that is what we are going to do in the field of specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u59	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u60	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As has already been said, today we are debating a proposal for a government law, presented in July 2018, on a matter so sensitive and so dense that requires greater weighting, robust legal and ethical support and also complete transparency. The CDS knows the opinions that have been issued by several credible entities, already referred to here, on an earlier version of this bill. The opinions date from 2016, as has already been said, and we deeply regret that, for the sake of transparency in a matter with this density, these entities have not been able to pronounce themselves on the current version of the text. It is clear to us that these entities will have to be heard in the field of expertise, but we have strangely noted that the Government has not requested an opinion on the current version of the proposal. The CDS supports, of course, scientific research, particularly in areas of social relevance such as the one we are discussing today, but it is well aware that, given the delicateness and complexity of the matter involving human embryos, the ethical and legal rigour in the framework that presides over this type of research will have to be greater. in this measure and in this sense, we follow the reflections and some questions raised in the opinions of such credible entities as the Order of Doctors, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences or the National Council of Assisted Medicine Processing, such issues that, in the view of the CDS, are not properly and sufficiently clarified in the text we are discussing today. As is said in the opinion of the Order of Doctors, «it is a scientifically proven fact that the beginning of life occurs at the time of fertilization», and « a human embryo is a human being and its destruction for scientific research purposes deserves great reservations ». Mr Minister, we underline and unequivocally follow this position and, like what, fortunately, other benches have already done, we reiterate the primacy of human dignity as an intrinsic value of the human being, which the CDS has always, and not only on some occasions, largely defended. In the area of data protection, this proposal should be tackled again. What we want to say is not only the relevance and social value of scientific research but also the need for a correct ethical-legal framework to be respected in this area. Therefore, we challenge the Socialist Party, as a party supporting the Government, to submit a request for this proposal to be dropped to the committee without a vote, because what is required is the competition of many entities, promoting a much more in-depth reflection and process, which does not lead to a debate with this frame. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u61	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have no doubt about the importance of scientific research in the field of health. Advances in scientific and technological knowledge, particularly with regard to the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the disease, have enabled us to take qualitative and quantitative leaps in improving the health and living conditions of the populations. With regard to health, safeguarding the physical integrity of human beings is an inexhaustible principle. There are ethical issues that arise and require clear standards for the development of scientific research in biological materials such as cells and tissues of human origin. Scientific research should also be integrated into a government strategy that meets national and population interests rather than private interests. the analysis of the initiative proposed by the Government and the opinions sent to the Assembly of the Republic, there are aspects that raise doubts and concerns and require clarification. along the proposal, there are references to scientific research and clinical research, but it is important to clarify the concept of "research" here, until the definition of "clinical study" includes some of the studies that fit the situations provided for in the proposed law. It is also mentioned that the scientific research envisaged is not from application to human beings, but at the same time corroborates translational research, the meaning of which is exactly that of the application of basic and clinical research in the usual clinical practice. If, in fact, we are also in the presence of clinical research, it is important to safeguard the rights and protection of participants in the light of clinical research legislation. With regard to the proposed committee for the coordination of research in human cells and tissues, it is essential to ensure that it is completely independent of private interests and exempt from evaluation. However, the composition proposed for this committee is not understood. It is also important to clarify the role of the ethics committees of health institutions, where these committees are expected to be involved in the collection of human tissues and cells. On the guarantee of the rights of donors and their protection, we also have several concerns. It is said that the collection of samples, when it involves risks, is done by a qualified professional. But who is responsible for the assessment of these risks? It is also said that the gift is not allowed to involve a high degree of probability of severe and permanent decrease of physical integrity. But does this mean that if, on the contrary, the risk is moderate, there is no problem anymore? These are aspects of this nature which must be densified in the proposed law which the Government brings to debate. In addition, there is no forecast of any kind of damage caused by tissue and cell collection. As regards the planned participation of vulnerable and minor persons, the formulation of the bill may not in any way guarantee their rights. We understand that free and informed consent, in writing, is essential at all stages of the process. As regards personal data, it is necessary to ensure the protection of donors, in particular with regard to the privacy and confidentiality of such data. It should be borne in mind that a legislative process on the protection of personal data takes place in the Assembly of the Republic, and in the field of health, we believe that legislation must and must be restrictive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u63	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u64	I shall conclude, Madam President. Without losing sight of the possibility of scientific and technological advances in the field of health, but due to the sensitivity of the issues involved, a deeper and more thoughtful debate is necessary to ensure the protection of donors, their rights and their physical integrity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u65	For one last speech, before the Minister concludes the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regime that the Government presents to us here — just to be simpler, I would say that it is the use of cells and tissues of human origin for scientific research purposes — seems important to us for scientific research in Portugal. We understand and agree with the possibility of using this material for the development of scientific research, which, in fact, will have obvious repercussions—it is expected — in the scientific development in the field of health, as referred to in the diploma, whether in the prevention of diseases, or in the improvement and development of new techniques for the production of assisted medicinal products. We therefore agree with the general idea that is present in this regime that is presented to us. however, we believe that it is necessary to achieve a balance between this regime and the use of this material, of cells and tissues of human origin, and at the same time to reconcile it with fundamental principles and rights, in particular, and already mentioned here, the rights and principles of the dignity of the human person. Some of the articles in this bill seem to us to be positive, such as Article 3. the principles that are poured out in it, Article 5. the, which obliges an informed consent to the whole process, Article 8. the, on gratuity, and Article 14. o on the definition of prohibited purposes. It seems to us that everyone has good principles, however, we do not ignore that, at least with regard to a preliminary draft of this law, there have been several opinions from various entities, and all of them, without exception, have recommended changes to this preliminary draft. We do not know opinions concerning the final project that is discussed here today, but we do not think that this most final version has received all the proposals that were made by entities such as the National Council for Assisted Medicine Processing, the National Data Protection Commission, the National Council for Ethics for Life Sciences. Therefore, what we believe is that, now, it is necessary to develop a mature process of deep discussion, in particular, in order to make the compatibility between the use of this material for scientific research, which I believe is a noble objective, and the acceptance, at the same time, of the recommendations of all these entities, in order to improve the proposal and also to protect and enhance principles such as that of human dignity. Therefore, the question I leave is in the sense of whether there is openness to these amendments and to this discussion in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u67	There are no further entries, to close the debate, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course there is an opening for a deep debate on this matter, there has always been, and it must be done. In any case, in the face of the various questions, I would like to clarify three questions which I think have arisen. Firstly, the question of definitions. It was an option not to go beyond that which is the international European reference framework to include more definitions, but it seems to me that it is a simple matter and that can be dealt with easily. Secondly, the questions of the administrative and institutional forum. Perhaps the time that took place in this process has to do with the critical issue that arose in many of the opinions, which was actually to create a new regulatory entity or not. There is here a clear option to always impose an appropriate regulatory principle, certainly in the current framework, without creating a new regulatory entity, having chosen to value the operating framework of the State laboratory, the National Institute of Public Health, avoiding the creation of a new regulatory entity. And, in this respect, there is indeed a difference in relation to some of the initial opinions, especially as they may suppose, in order to avoid an excessive effort by the state bureaucracy in this process. Finally, the last question concerns the concept itself. Now, it is natural that there are different concepts in these benches and therefore we have opted for a clear and unequivocal question of supporting scientific research with embryonic stem cells in Portugal, combining Portugal with a modern and healthy framework of reference, as is the case today in other countries of the European context. And this is a conceptual question, basically, that this legal regime has begun to enshrine in Portugal. A final clear warning has to do with the fact that in Portugal already working with human tissues and cells, especially adult or induced cells, the so-called iPS (induced stem cell cells). The work that is not done is, above all, with embryonic stem cells and, therefore, our dependence, especially on the United Kingdom, in this area today requires a more modern picture of scientific activity, which is obviously subject to an option by the concept of what scientific work is in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the fifth item on our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tankos. Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are presenting this draft creation of a committee of inquiry which seems to us to be due, and this is increasingly understood as, demanding and even, in a certain sense, inevitable. On June 28, 2018, the unbelieving country witnessed one of the greatest assaults in recent history — probably the greatest of the twenty-first century — military material, one of it with lethal capacity. And surely all of this has seriously affected the prestige of the Armed Forces, the prestige of national security and, obviously and fundamentally, somehow, to the international point of view, has affected the security and image of our country. From 28 June 2018 until today, what we have seen is a process of errors behind errors, management, we would say, at least, negligent, not to say even errant and erratic, on the part of the Government, in a case that is serious, a case that is serious, a case that deserved or demanded another kind of sense of state and another kind of sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u72	In some ways we can identify four phases in what was the government's narrative since June 2018. The first stage was that of devaluation: nothing from another world happened, nothing special happened. in fact, the former Minister, on behalf of the Government of Portugal, said « well in view of things, even it could not have been a theft, could have been a sort of phenomenon of disappearance ». This was the first way in which the Government, erraticly, in a serious case, in a case that tarnishes Portugal's international prestige, agreed to address this circumstance. When they realized the mistake they had made, they entered the second stage, which was a kind of ignorance: "Well, we don't know well what happened, this may be in the courts, in justice, let us be. We do not want to know, we do not know, we do not see, it is not with us". This stage is equally erratic, it is equally worrying, it is equally harmful to the image of our country. Then there is a third stage, which is the so-called closed phase of the matter. The material appeared, recovered, indeed, today it seems not well a recovery was more a return, with more or less drawers, as said the previous CEME ( Chief of the Army's Higher State), «the truth is that nothing has happened», as our Government said, because after all, everything is well when it ends well and it is finished with the material found, recovered, and even more — see well the sympathy and bono of who did that theft... Once again, however, this slight, slight way of dealing with a state matter of greater seriousness is a matter which deserves to be voted on, from the point of view of political responsibility, by this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u73	Then we reach the fourth stage, when we get to know more facts, more contradictions, all of them disturbing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u74	They haven't even started the investigation yet, and they're already in the conclusions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u75	... what is the stage in which the Government merely says: "We will replace the Minister? We have replaced or resigned the protagonists, the Minister of Defence and the Chief of the Army's Senior State — we do not know well — and then everything is resolved'. No, you're not, Mr. President, no, you're not, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u76	Make the report now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u77	Portugal and the Portuguese Government, on behalf of Portugal, assured NATO and the European Union that they had recovered lethal war material which, after all, did not recover. That alone would give a committee of inquiry, but all that was a trigger of irresponsibility, lightness and lightness makes this committee of inquiry, as I said at the outset, inevitable and even demanding in a Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u78	Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Tancos case is one of the most alarming signs, unfortunately one more, of the degradation of the state in areas of sovereignty. In essential security issues and in fundamental pillars of the country's structure, who has had the maximum responsibility for their destinations has acted with the minimum responsibility. Politically, there is no one who does not recognize this plot a very serious subject, which has reached the heart of the prestigious Armed Forces, especially the Army, and has even affected the dignity of the Portuguese. It was therefore expected that the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister would act quickly and act with elevation and sense of state.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u81	But no, the government has abandoned itself — this is the word, it is strong, but it is this! He pretended, for a long time, that it was nothing with him, he did not move a straw, he devalued the issue, as has already been said, he behaved with institutional lightness and dealt with a matter of extreme importance with a supreme simplicity. The trickling form as it then managed the matter was surreal and even dangerous, as it directed an authentic missile to the credibility of the Army. Otherwise, you see: in the first phase, it has already been remembered here, the Minister of Defense dismissed came to say that he did not know what had happened; in the second act, he said that he could not even have been stolen; in the third stage he said that there had been theft but the stolen weapons were less than those that had been announced; in the last breath he said that after all the weapons that appeared were more than those that had been stolen. And so, literally with his feet, the government has dealt with the matter. Of course, the Prime Minister could have amended the hand of the Minister of Defense, but that's not what he did. The Prime Minister, after meeting with the military leaders in Saint Benedict, assured, and I quote, that the Minister of Defence had all his confidence in the performance of his duties. A month later, he came to say something insulting, which on the part of the government was all done: the recovery of the material was done and the reconditioning of the material was done, as he said « closed matter, no longer bothers us». But it's far from done. We need to know why the Prime Minister did not order an investigation or an inspection to which it happened, always taking refuge and only in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We need to know what the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence said to the Minister of Defence. And now we need to know whether the Minister of Defence has told the Prime Minister something about what he might have heard from the head of office. Then there was still no need to know, because now it is not missing, until now it is known, when the Prime Minister's metaphor was intertwined and buried, in the sense that we had removed the « rainhorses», because the Minister of Defense was not going to be dismissed. A chance of luck! It is that soon after it rained, the horses stayed in the rain, the Minister was resigned, and the CEME ( Chief of Army Staff) also ended up being dismissed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after this sweep to isolate and pinpoint the problem, the Prime Minister understands that he has solved everything, but he has not solved it. We need to know how this material went missing. We need to know how he was found. You need to know what use has been given to you. We need to know what goals he was robbed of. We need to know whether or not there's still guns on the loose. It is necessary to know why the former Secretary-General of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and the Secretary-General of the SSI (Internal Security System ) knew about this through the newspapers, in a strange way as never seen. How can the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence not inform these two supreme bodies responsible for national security of lethal weapons theft? Oh, my God! Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to know what the new Minister of Defence thinks about this case, what he has to say about the resignation of the ECME and the reasons he has raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u82	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u83	In short, Mr President, even to conclude with the PSD, we must politically resolve everything up to the last consequences, from top to bottom, to those who hurt, without contemplation or complacency and always in search of the truth and the dignity of the institutions and the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u84	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The military arms theft of the National Paiol of Tanks in June last year was a very serious event. This sad and serious event represents a horrendous failure of the State in one of its essential functions, the defence function. In the face of the success, it becomes imperative to clear up the responsibilities to the end. This was what the Left Block demanded, which at the time requested a set of clarifications from the Ministry of Defence and called for strict investigation, not accepting that, once again, the guilt should die loose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u87	But what we have seen, throughout all this time, was to some kind of Mexican telenovela, it wasn't the gravity of the case. over a more than one year, several hearings were held in the Assembly of the Republic to political and military officials, where many contradictory statements were produced and reports were drawn up. There have been some military punishments and, recently, the country has witnessed resignations and even some prisons. Prisons not directly related to the disappearance of the war material but — imagine! — with an alleged stagnation of its appearance in Chamusca. What is certain is that the Army, through the mouth of its maximum official, was taxing, when it stated that there had been breach of the security perimeters of the Tanks and the collapse of two guys, leading to the disappearance of military material, through internal complicity, in addition to structural and systemic errors, of dislocation and lack of supervision. So far, nothing else is publicly known about theft: how? Who? In what way? What time? What are the people involved? What means of transport were involved in the operation? What was known, in concrete terms, and that has contributed to the theft of military material, was that the video surveillance systems of Tanks had been broken since 2012, so since the time of the previous PSD / CDS government. The PSD and the CDS cannot bear in mind that nothing has to do with this situation of de-investment and degradation that has severely affected the facilities and the military condition, like the serious attacks and cuts in the quality of life and the rights of the Portuguese people. It should not be forgotten that it was through the Defense 2020 document that the previous government aggravated the EMFAR ( Statute of Military Armed Forces ), reduced the labour and professional rights of the military and carried out a restructuring of units and effectiveness, guiding investments in an approach that met NATO interests. On the theft of military weapons in Tanks, the expertise continued to leave the country alarmed. The Attorney-General of the Republic suspected the practice of crimes of criminal association, arms trafficking and international terrorism. Then it was the re-appearance of the material in Chamusca, but by the way, with an extra box of explosives. Later, the Public Prosecutor's Office, based on news reports, came to say that the war material had not been recovered all and that they were still "unloaded" several charges of explosives and grenades that they would carry out terrorist attacks. This is a very serious situation even and it is necessary to investigate to the end, in order to ascertain all the responsibilities, as the Left Block has demanded. Since the beginning, the investigation has been carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police, and well. Justice must be allowed to do its work without any disturbance and interference from political power, in absolute respect for the separation of powers and constitutional precept. If the government has not been successful in this matter, then neither the parties on the right. Whether the CDS establishes a commission of inquiry in the case of Tanks, but the Left Block considers it to be hasty and extemporaneous, while judicial investigations are under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u88	When appropriate! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u89	This is the time of investigation and justice is not stopped, he is doing his job, as is proved. This is the time to separate the politics of justice. After removing the consequences of this research, it will then be up to the policy to withdraw its legions. The Public Prosecutor's Office has, after all, given priority and continues to work on the case. The country needs to know what happened as soon as possible and those responsible for the disappearance of war material must all be found and duly held accountable, so that one of the blackest episodes of Portuguese military history is closed. There is here some political opportunism on the part of the CDS, and even a lot of inconsequence, because this party knows that it is not possible for an investigation committee to interfere with an ongoing investigation. In any case, the Left Block will not oppose the constitution of the committee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u90	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u91	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, since the first hour, has pointed out that the theft of Tanks is of enormous gravity and pointed to the need to clear up all responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u94	I am talking about the clearance of criminal responsibilities, which is the responsibility of the courts — the courts are reserved for the discharge of these same responsibilities — but I am also talking about the clearance of political responsibilities of successive governments, which have allowed the military facilities of Tanks to degrade,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u95	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u96	... of the current government and also political responsibilities of the high structure, i.e. of the Army, one of the branches of the Armed Forces. Having said this and before we came into the question of the parliamentary committee of inquiry itself, we wanted to leave two previous notes. Firstly, the PCP sees naturally and even registers as positive the functioning of justice. We do not align with this idea that it has been cultivated that what happens within the institutions must remain within the institutions. The functioning of justice is operating, of course, advertising of what is happening and we note this as a good thing. A culture of internalization of problems, without allowing them to leave out there, must be fought. Secondly, the resignations of both the Minister of National Defence and the Chief of the Army's Senior State did not remove the need to assume responsibilities. What has happened goes far beyond these two holders, and there are many doubts that need to be clarified. The parliamentary commission of inquiry proposed by the CDS-PP is limited to its scope, because the new data and information that exists are still within the framework of the judicial process and in secret of justice, before an indictment phase. There will, of course, be a set of information that will become public and that will add information and data to the work of Parliament. Until then, it is very complicated, in our view, to have new data and information that is in secret of justice, since its disclosure compromises the work and the functioning of justice, something we do not want to happen. We also understand that responsibility is needed, yes, but we do not understand the CDS initiative, which is only proposed to be responsible from June 2017 onwards. It doesn't make any sense. This crime is also a crime of opportunity. Tanks military facilities were degraded. Why were they degraded? Why was the video surveillance system not operational and there were no measures, either of the high military structure or of the political leaders, to solve this problem in due course? Why were surveillance and the presence security system so weakened? Now we cannot say that responsibilities begin in June 2017. And I am already asking the CDS-PP to know whether it is willing to extend the clearance of responsibilities not only with regard to this government but also with regard to successive governments which had responsibilities, rather, with regard to the degradation of security conditions. There are indeed several leaders of the military high structure and responsibilities should not be resolved only from June 2017. Those responsible for the high military structure of the Armed Forces branch have a record and the parliamentary commission of inquiry must be comprehensive. Therefore, it is not clear why the CDS-PP leaves for this parliamentary committee of inquiry and is half as much as about the clearance of the responsibilities, the half which is politically interested in the CDS to ascertain. The CFP makes it very clear that we cannot keep up with responsibilities in the military structure, that is, we cannot remain in the disciplinary process involving a captain, a sergeant and a square. It cannot be left here to clear up the responsibilities. It is necessary to look at the whole command and the chain of responsibilities up to the top and this responsibility must be comprehensive over time and not, as the CDS proposes from June 2017 onwards, as if it had not happened, which, of course, is not true. We therefore believe that the object of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on this subject should be extended because the discharge of responsibilities cannot be outside the committee's scope. In short, we are available to clear up all the responsibilities in these two components, to whom we give; we are not available for a process of entrenchment and desecrating the Armed Forces, in particular the Army, or to use this process as an instrument, with political objectives. For that, do not count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u97	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, what happened in Tanks was serious, it was very serious. It was serious the theft of military material, which, of course, we all want it to have been an isolated case and not repeat it again, but still was serious and very worrying. I would say that it was strange to re-appear or recover weapons, in fact, in the face of the few available elements, until we have difficulty adjecting what happened. Therefore, we say that at least it was strange or singular. The Greens believe that responsibilities need to be established. All responsibilities! But the truth is that it is up to the criminal investigation bodies and judicial institutions to carry out investigations and seek criminal or criminal responsibilities for the success of the case. On this matter, there is nothing to say, not only because we believe that the judicial authorities will naturally do their work, but also because respect for the constitutional principle of the separation of powers to this advises us. As for the CDS-PP proposal for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tanks, the Greens have kept what they have been saying since this intention of the CDS was made public. We keep the same reserves and maintain the same perplexity. Let us maintain reservations about the committee's own work, since much of the raw material to be worked, if not all, will be covered by the secret of justice and therefore without the raw material there will be no results. It's easy to count! With regard to perplexity, this results from the fact that the CDS-PP limits the time area of analysis of this committee to June 2017. Now, as we all know, and the CDS-PP will also know, the "world" did not start in June last year, the "world" began much earlier. What happened in Tanks may not be just, and certainly will not be, the result of security failures that started exactly on the day of the theft. I would be advised that he would retreat in time, that we would go further, and perhaps, much later, because there would certainly be nothing to lose. In fact, the state of a paddle is not weakened one day at a time and so it would be very recommended to retreat a little or more. In any event, and despite these reservations, the Greens will not oppose the establishment of this parliamentary committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tanks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u99	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are compelling assumptions that the Armed Forces are a State's basic institution and that the principles and values for which they are oriented should strengthen the confidence of the Portuguese. It happens that values and principles only have validity in action. Therefore, the serious events involving theft and subsequent re-appearance of the weapons of the tank countries raise many doubts and few answers. It is not acceptable for those responsible to excuse clarifications on such a serious matter and it is worrying to perceive the fragility of the leaders of this institution, to assess the lack of clarity with which this crisis has been managed. The memory of these events and of what they represent will not be erased, but if there is a way to dignify the Armed Forces and national security, it is the clearance of truth and political accountability, in a transparent process, which does not fear the democratic public scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u102	We will support the establishment of this committee of inquiry so that we can finally find the answers we all seek and the political responsibilities that are required.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u103	Mr Ascenso Simões, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What happened last June in Tancos is a very serious situation that cannot be repeated in Portugal. In fact, the country was supposed to have taken out all the raid ions verified in 2011 in the Carregueira Commands and should have looked clearly at the circumstances in which the storage of the material of the Armed Forces was located. The Government that came to deal with this issue, looking at this event in 2011, should have found the necessary ways to give the Armed Forces the means to solve the problems of countries and arms. Having not done so by the previous government, the present government should do so, and do so. The Defence Commission is aware that the previous Minister, knowing through the internal memorandum of the Armed Forces, gave the guidance and made the necessary funds available for intervention in that same parole. It is clear that today's parliamentary debate is not mostly done by the Members of the Defence Committee of the CDS and PSD parliamentary groups, because if it were done by the Members of the Defence Committee, they would know that this circumstance existed. More: they would know that the Government has delivered in the Assembly a complete memorandum of everything that happened before and after the assault on Tanks, they would know that the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic all the work that has been done by the Army and the other branches to repackage all the material, they would know that the Government has sent to the Assembly of the Republic extensive documentation, which is in the vault of the Defence Commission, on the internal investigations of the Army, where there are many of the answers to the questions put here by Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mr Carlos Peixoto. Mr. João Rebelo went to see these documents, but perhaps he did not pass the information to Mr. Nuno Magalhães...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u105	The commission's gonna wipe it all out! That's your problem, they only intrigue about intrigue and they don't get anywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u106	No, no, no! It is at your disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, you can make that consultation. Of course, Mr Marco António Costa was another of the Members who saw the documentation and who did not pass the information to Mr Carlos Peixato, because the only thing Mr Marco António Costa wants is to occupy the centrality of the defence debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u107	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u108	Well, returning to the subject, the Socialist Party is not opposed to the existence of this committee of inquiry. The Socialist Party could even observe the reluctance of the benches on the left over the committee and say, "Well, so far there is a possible majority to hinder the committee proposed by the CDS." Don't! The position of the Socialist Party, by the voice of its parliamentary leader and its president, at the first time the CDS proposal was presented, and had not yet entered here, was clear, accepting that same commission. But we are at a point where there is an ongoing judicial investigation and the Socialist Party will not tolerate an invasion of powers in the committee. The intervention by Mr Nuno Magalhães almost started the process of the invasion of competence and was very clear, i.e. "we do not want only to establish political responsibilities, we also want to establish disciplinary responsibilities and even criminal responsibilities". No, this will not happen in the committee of inquiry of this Parliament, with the participation of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u109	He can't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u110	The second question, which is also very relevant, has to do with the mark of the day of the assault, i.e. the CDS makes a proposal to Parliament, in order to make a kind of clean, a sort of automatic cleaning of everything behind it: there was nothing behind it! There was no responsibility of anyone back! There is only responsibility from that same day, as if the country, before, was a blank page and nothing had happened. Well, that will not happen either, because the Socialist Party, in the same committee of inquiry, will raise the presence of relevant personalities so that we can determine all the political responsibility for what happened in Tanks. Therefore, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this committee, but the Socialist Party has very clear bays regarding its functioning, which are those of the realisation of political responsibilities, which are what must be done in this House and in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u111	To close this debate, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor, which is one minute away from the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the time given by the Green Party and leave three final notes. First of all, as Mr André Silva said, the best way to defend the prestige of the armed forces is to know the truth and do it without fear, without hiding anything, without trying to get under the carpet whatever it is. This is how it defends itself, as we want to defend, and I think we all want to defend, the prestige of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u114	There are also two notes that are a little extraordinary. Finally, the parties on the left say, "Was it very serious? Yes! Don't we agree with the committee? Don't! But we approve! Do not keep on seeking. ” Why? I believe that, purely and simply, on a matter of fear of public opinion, because they know that the matter is indeed serious and, ultimately, because they know that it is necessary to investigate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u115	The gentlemen. Members speak of the secret of justice. I have more faith in the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing? Ladies and gentlemen have themselves! It's just that I trust you guys. Members will be able to do in this case what they have done in the cases of BES, BPN, BANIF, the General Deposit Box, including with the defendants present, in which they have all been able to carry out committees of inquiry, in which Parliament and the Assembly of the Republic have prestigious them. Where and for what? For the judicial investigations! That's what we're going to do, Mr. Ascension Simões! There is a regime for the banks, when we are in opposition, there is another regime, by the way, for the Armed Forces, when we are in government. Don't count on it! We really want to take care of political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u116	After the charge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u117	When there's an accusation, they can do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u118	Mr. Ascenso Simões, you should hear more what I say, instead of dedicating yourself to political intrigue. In fact, Mr Rebel told me what he had to say and when he had to say it. The second criticism, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has to do with the reason why the CDS wants to focus on 28 June 2017. The reason is very simple, sirs. Members: The CDS does not want an investigation committee on military equipment. That, already existed, do you remember? Oh, my God! It has already existed, even at the request of the Socialist Party. The CDS wants to focus on Tanks. What happened on June 28, 2017? The theft of Tanks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. What are you guys talking about? Members intend to be an investigation committee at Tancos. What's opening up what? The beginning of nationality? What's the point, ladies? Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u121	That's not your argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u122	We will find out who, why and how, in a political, non-legal and non-judicial way. It's the best way to prestigious the Armed Forces! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now get to the last point on our agenda. This is the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 984 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Ensure non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under the age of 6 years and to Resolution Projects Nos 880/ XIII/2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct studies and awareness-raising actions on the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and consumption of methylphenidate and atomoxetine by children and young people, 881 / XIII / 2. a (NAP) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures at the level of the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and the prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine in children and young people, 882 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote an extended debate and sensitize health professionals to the use of various PHDA diagnostic tests and 832 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Prevention of excessive consumption of central nervous system stimulants ( Ritaline and Strattera ) to treat hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit. You have the floor to present your initiatives, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In Portugal, 23 000 children are being taken to disturb hyperactivity with attention deficit. The annual sale of these medicines quintupled between 2003 and 2014, with children up to 14 years of age consuming more than 5 million doses of methylfenidate per year, a substance existing in medicines such as Concerta, Ritalina and Rubifen. During 2016, Portuguese spent almost €20 000 per day on the purchase of these medicines, representing more than EUR 7 million per year, on an average of 805 packages per day. In view of the high consumption of these medicines, which has already deserved the attention of several specialists, we propose that regular studies be carried out on the evolution of methylphenidate consumption and that awareness campaigns aimed at health professionals and the general population on the diagnosis of this disorder and on the prescription and administration of these substances, raising awareness of the need to favour psychological intervention, to the detriment of pharmacological intervention, as a first line of treatment. In addition, the intervention of a multidisciplinary team in diagnosis and treatment should be ensured, in all cases, as well as the use of various means of diagnosis, in order to obtain a set of symptoms resulting in an unequivocal diagnosis. Finally, taking into account the difficulty of diagnosis in children of pre-school age and the fact that the package leaflets of medicinal products expressly say that they are not intended to be used in children under 6 years of age, since their safety and efficacy has not been established in this age group, the prescription of medicinal products containing methylphenidate should be prevented for children under 6 years of age.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u125	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prescription and consumption of medicines for hyperactivity and attention deficit have increased exponentially in recent years, especially among children and young people. The number is expressive. It says the report of the National Program for Mental Health that, in 2013, 163 504 packages of methylphenidate were prescribed and in 2016 377 331 packages were prescribed, i.e. more than twice in just three years. It also says the same report that in 2012 more than 5 million and 230 thousand doses of these psychopharmaceuticals were consumed and in 2016 more than 7 million and 500 thousand doses were consumed. It is true that overprescribing and excessive consumption of these drugs present risks, such as propensity for consumption and dependence on these and other substances in the future, difficulties in the development of cognitive tools, by children and young people, and even the concealment of causes and other problems. however, it is also true that the problems of excess prescription and excess consumption of these psychopharmaceuticals are not resolved by prohibiting prescription. ... The Assembly of the Republic shall not restrict the clinical act or the freedom that must be the doctor's own. It is not up to the Assembly of the Republic to decide who, how and how you can prescribe a medicine. This will certainly correspond to the technical and scientific analysis, and also, lastly, to the clinical decision of each doctor. But it is possible and advisable to have measures to combat the excessive consumption of these medicines that do not go through the abusive limitation of each doctor's freedom. First of all, the question must be asked and understood: why are you prescribing so much? Probably because this type of drug therapy is being used as first-line therapy, when it should be almost end-line therapy. So we ask again: why is the prescription of medicines to be used as first-line therapy? I believe that the answer here is also easy: because there are no mental health technicians and professionals in schools and in the National Health Service. Therefore, the response must necessarily pass through the prohibition of prescription, but rather by the strengthening of the number of psychologists and other mental health professionals. This is what the Left Block proposes with its legislative initiative: that the number of mental health professionals, clinical psychologists, in particular, should be strengthened, and that the prevalence of hyperactivity disorders and attention deficits should be monitored, as well as the evolution of prescription drugs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u127	Mr Eurídice Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u128	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, here we are discussing a draft NAP law, which aims to ensure that two concrete substances, which make up medicines classified as non-specific central nervous system stimulants, normally prescribed for the treatment of cases of hyperactivity disturbance with attention deficit, cannot be prescribed to children under 6 years of age. Four recommendations were added to this initiative. In all of these recommendations, there is perhaps an excessive temptation to regulate procedures for health technicians with regard to response methods. Perturbation of hyperactivity with attention deficit is one of the forms of pathology of the persistent neurobehavioral forum most diagnosed during childhood and whose diagnosis is frequently associated with prescription of medicines such as Ritalina, which is, at last, the most known. There is, in fact, the idea of overdiagnosis. Better, there is evidence that « there is a growing trend in the use of medicines for hyperactivity and attention deficit », says Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). It also resulted from the reading of an assessment of this entity that «prescription is carried out in specialized care, as recommended ». It is true that addressing this reality does not cease to be a form of warning so that it is assumed that the pharmacological response is not necessarily the first response, giving priority, in the first line, to behavioral therapy. In fact, several entities have come to comment on this issue, in order to recommend a non-pharmacological initial approach in pre-school children and in lighter diagnoses, however, referring that in moderate and severe situations, with an impact on children's daily lives, and after a favorable evaluation of experienced interdisciplinary teams and with the agreement of parents, it is to consider pharmacological therapy. They consider that the essential thing is to ensure a correct diagnosis, so that, on the one hand, these substances are not improperly prescribed, but also not to deprive children of appropriate therapies, in the light of the best scientific evidence. As a Member of Parliament and a politician, I cannot and must not feel empowered to decide what a clinician can or can not prescribe. It does not seem reasonable to us that, by means of legislation, he interferes in an act that only the doctor has to decide. On this issue, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the NAP initiative is unjustified and constitutes a political interference in a medical act, devaluing knowledge and clinical practice. The topic is too sensitive and it should be said that there are therapeutic indications that are approved for these medicines, based on scientific evidence. however, the precautionary position that should be adopted on this subject remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, the proposed and recommended subjects are areas where scientific consensus and guidance from scientific, national and international organizations are essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u131	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed here five legislative proposals, a bill and four draft resolutions, about the use of psychopharmaceuticals commonly used in children with hyperactivity, but not only in these situations, and strengthen this because it is relevant. We are discussing a decision that is, in our view, medical and has to be duly substantiated, even more in a vulnerable population like children. A decision that is clinical cannot, in the view of the CDS and many experts, be prohibited by law. There may be a problem, perhaps several problems related to a population of children with special educational needs related to support for the families of these children, but we do not want the solution to prohibit doctors from prescribing substances that may have more therapeutic value. The real problem of children with special educational needs lies in the lack of support from the classrooms. The Government has approved inclusive legislation which excludes, due to lack of resources, those who would most need such support, the population we are talking about today. The CDS recognizes that social awareness on these issues should be increased and the discussion and decision-making by clinicians, therapists and families should be encouraged and the multidisciplinary teams working in this area should be strengthened. We are clearly against the misuse of medicines and we know that this is the concern of doctors. We are against the over or undertreatment of children and therefore we understand — and I shall finish — that this debate must be held seriously and without demagogy. The CDS does not confuse roles of Parliament and clinicians. The CDS today requires the Government to give effective priority to supporting children with special educational needs. This is not done by prohibiting doctors from prescribing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u133	Mr Luís Vales of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss several NAP initiatives, including a bill through which the NAP intends to prohibit the prescription and administration of methylfenidate to children under the age of 6 years and who suffer from disturbance of hyperactivity with attention deficit. in the background, what the NAP proposes is the prohibition of prescription to these children of medicines such as Concerta, Ritalina and Rubifen, which have in common methylphenidate hydrochloride. The purposes of the NAP will perhaps be the best. And the PSD recognizes that the use of these drugs is not free of contraindications, particularly at ages when its recipients are particularly vulnerable and fragile. however, we believe that, in a field such as this one, which respects pharmacological prescription, the legislator should be very cautious, resisting initiatives that do not have a prior and solid scientific demonstration. in this sense, the PSD understands that the bill currently under discussion should be the subject of the opinion of entities with competences in the subject matter, from then on the National Institute of Pharmacy and Medicine, but also the professional orders linked to the health sector, beginning with the Order of Doctors and the Order of Pharmaceuticals. The topic is relevant and deserves a very serious weighting. But in the field of medical prescription, it does not seem to us that Parliament should legislate on it without the prior opinion of the community and scientific knowledge. It is important to bear in mind that, for example, Article 4. this legislative initiative of the NAP, under the heading « Disciplinary Responsibility of Doctors », provides for disciplinary action on a clinician who prescribes to a child under 6 years of age a medicine with methylphenidate and atomoxetine. No, Mr. André Silva, your intention may be good, we have no doubt, but that is not enough! That's not enough. The PSD is, however, available to vote in favour of a request for a discharge from the Committee for an assessment without a general vote. As I said, the matter is serious and therefore deserves a serene and enlightening approach. This approach will only be possible if the tenderers accept that the other parties discuss and deepen their appreciation of this initiative without seeking to impose a completed fact on them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u135	Mr Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of initiatives, four recommendations and a bill on the disturbance of hyperactivity due to attention deficit. Among the initiatives is the draft NAP law which, and I quote, ensures « non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under 6 years of age ». With this initiative, the NAP intends to prohibit the prescription of medicines with the above active principles for children under 6 years of age. This initiative supports the exponential increase in the sale of those medicines in Portugal, supporting the data of the National Medicines and Health Products Authority and the Directorate-General for Health. The CFP recognises that the issue must, and may, be debated and that the Assembly of the Republic should not steal from this debate, but does not follow initiatives that, rather than solve the public health problem, they say exist, take a decision that is clearly scientific and technical and, therefore, the responsibility of health professionals, specifically doctors. If such an initiative were to be adopted, it would open up a precedent in the legislative process, which we do not follow. In addition to this initiative, the NAP presents three draft resolutions, and one of them goes contrary to the bill. It advocates the NAP that the Government undertakes studies and awareness-raising actions on the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and drug consumption with the substances of the already stated active principles. It is appropriate to tell the NAP that it is justified and clarified. Do you want to study? Do you want sensitization? Or do you want the prohibition and interference in acts that are clearly scientific and technical and professional? The problems of overmedication of the population, in general, and of children, in particular, are not resolved with legislation, but with greater awareness of health professionals for their effects and with more multidisciplinary work, both in health and in education. Obviously this requires public services, primary health care, hospital care and education, more doctors, more psychologists, more mental health professionals who can make the evaluation and follow-up of children and young people who present this health problem and others. This is the way we stand for and for which we have put forward proposals. We reiterate: we refuse the NAP initiative to prohibit the prescription of medicines with the active principles already stated and we advocate that we should continue the scientific study on this disturbance, improve, intensify the multidisciplinary work and the strengthening of health professionals, including doctors, psychologists and other mental health professionals, both in health care and in education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u137	The Bureau no longer registers to use the floor in this debate. So you have the floor to close the debate, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking you for your criticisms. with regard to the prohibition of administration of methylphenidate in children under 6 years of age, it is necessary to say: there are numerous difficulties in the diagnosis in children under 6 years of age. This is because the Manual of Diagnostics and Statistics of Mental Disorders, which is based on this diagnosis, does not include clinical criteria specifically designed for pre-school age. on the contrary, a good part of the symptoms is defined by criteria based on academic tasks, such as, for example, "takes care of school tasks" or "do not end school work", and they cannot of course be used in the diagnosis in pre-school children. They also consist of behavior criteria such as "stop or interfere with the activities of others" which, being considered as symptomatics of hyperactivity with attention deficit in older children, are, however, normal in pre-school children. We cannot ignore that these drugs are included in the list of drugs or psychotropic drugs. [[PCP protests.]] I recall that, in two Back to Portugal in Bicycleta, in 1969 and 1973, Joaquim Agostinho was declassified because Ritalina consumption was detected, which is considered a dopante substance, i.e. the same substance that is prohibited as doping, is being slightly administered to children without due assessment in terms of diagnosis. And the prescription off label is no excuse for everything! Yes, it is true that Aspirin prescribes children, although no clinical trials have been performed. But it is also true that there are many medicines specifically addressed to children and are safe when taking them. It is therefore important to highlight the potential adverse effects that taking of never tested stimulants can have on the development of children. It should also be noted that Infarmed is not responsible for the consequences of the prescription of these medicines to children under 6 years of age and that, on the other hand, the doctor is also irresponsible when he obtains the informed consent of the parents of the child. But do they have sufficient training to understand the scope of their decision, supposedly clarified? Some will; most certainly will not. Do we want to give children untested medicines, without knowing the effects and consequences that they may have? In a country marked by the very high consumption of antidepressants and anxiolytics, with a trend of growth, we cannot accept this policy of « it is small that takes the tablet ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u139	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, we believe that, in view of existing data on consumption in children under 6 years of age, it is demonstrated that existing regulations are not sufficient, and therefore only non-prescription can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u141	It's forbidden to ban!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-24.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 25 October, at 3 p.m., on the point where one debate, by marking the CDS-PP, on the tax status of the interior. They will be in joint discussion, in general, the Bills Nos. 945 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the participation of the IRS in the municipalities of the interior, ensuring its full return to the municipalities, by amending Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 946 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening of expenditure deductions with education and real estate for taxpayers resident in interior territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, 947 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase in the period of exemption from municipal tax on buildings ( IMI) for urban buildings, for own and permanent housing, located in territories of the interior, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, 948 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Fiscal Code for Investment as annexed to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October as amended by Law No 114 / 2017 of 29 December 949 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates a special IRS rate table for taxpayers living in interior territories by amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, 950 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tax benefits relating to the installation of undertakings in the territories of the interior, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, and 951 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Deduction of charges with transport to taxpayers resident in inland territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. point 2 contains any vote on legislative initiatives at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone else a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]]
