ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to proceed with the opening of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, but in any case I have spoken to its leaders and there is authorization for that meeting to continue. However, we will have an introductory period of a few minutes for Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do that extraordinary exercise to read the file and then, in another context, I will read the letter addressed to me by Mr. President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 196 / XIII — The second amendment to Law No. 31 / 2009 of 3 July approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required for technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, the supervision of work and the management of work which is not subject to special legislation and the duties applicable to them, and the first amendment to Law No. 41 / 2015 of 3 June, which establishes the legal regime applicable to the pursuit of construction activity. I therefore call on Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 124 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1975 and 1980, which fall to 1. the Commission. The following bills were also entered: No. 819 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal and laboral arrangements for workers of the external peripheral services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including workers of the official residences of the State, approved by Decree-Law No 47 / 2013 of 5 April ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 820 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory ( PSD ) ; No 821 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates an incentive to rent housing by reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of income arising from lease contracts for housing, amending the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88, from 30 November ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission; points 822 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Concretization of the second phase of the revision of the reform scheme in advance of flexibility, eliminating double penalty for long-term pensioners ( BE ) ; No 823 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 235 / 2008 of 3 December, which establishes that, in order to carry out strategic and structural investments, the Bureau of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon needs the authorization of protection ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 824 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Elimination of the application of the sustainability factor to long-term involuntary unemployment pensions, and provides for the revision of special schemes and measures in anticipation of the age of access to old-age pension ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 825 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Revokes the sustainability factor and restores the legal age of reform to 65 years ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 826 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Elimination of penalties to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and paragraphs 827 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Valorizes long-term contributions, ensuring access to pension without penalties and regardless of age, to workers who complete 40 years of discounts ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 61 / XIII was also introduced ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 17 / 2018 of 8 March establishing the system of access and exercise of the activities of travel and tourism agencies, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2302. The following draft resolutions were also accepted: No 1473 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On the fight against pollution at sea by hydrocarbons ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1474 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of information systems to support operational decision-making in the fight against forest fires ( PSD ) ; No 1475 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — improving road accessibility to the Town Hall of Vila Verde ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1476 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force by ensuring their effective existence and use due by means of a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1477 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the protection and promotion of leases, in particular the measures necessary for the establishment of the legal system for income insurance ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1478 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the use of tracking machines in the fight against forest fires ( PSD ) ; No 1479 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent mass eviction in the Towers of the Trust Insurance Company, in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1480 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Urgent completion of the works of requalification of the Art School António Arroio, in Lisbon ( The Greens ) ; No 1481 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a mechanism for the allocation of a provisional blood price pension ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission; point 1482/ XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an adaptation of the National Forest Defense System against Fires ( PSD ) ; No 1483/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by defending and valuing regional products, in particular the cheese of São Jorge ( Autonomous Region of the Azores ) ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission; points 1484 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human and material resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1485 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the right of workers in public service to a fair remedy in the event of an accident at work or occupational disease and to consider the appropriate mechanisms to ensure effective and effective judicial protection ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 1486 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the re-qualification of IP3, its maintenance without tolls and in safety conditions ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1487 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the steps legally assigned to it to prevent the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( CDS-PP ) ; No 1488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to be promoted within the framework of the forest fire prevention and control system ( PS ) ; No 1489 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of priorities in forest processing for better fire protection ( BE ) ; No 1490 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that firefighters entitled to remuneration under the DECIF shall receive these amounts directly ( BE ) ; No 1491 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve and the requalification and valuation of the commercial ports of Portimão and Faro ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1492 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Opening of a new phase of applications for farmers affected by forest fires in October 2017 ( The Greens ) ; No 1493/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Support for family farming as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of rural space ( The Greens); No 1494 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as part of its conversion, decide not to extinguish the commercial port of Faro and carry out as quickly as possible the improvement works planned for the port of Portimão ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; and paragraphs 1495 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by the dynamisation of the ports of Algarve and the strategy for the dynamisation of maritime transport ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Finally, I refer to the presentation of draft deliberation No 18 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of Delegations to the International Parliamentary Organizations ) ( PAR ). Mr President, there are also two reports and opinions of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, whose opinions, because of their urgency, must be voted on immediately. The first refers to the term of office of Mrs.Jamila Madeira, of the electoral circle of Faro, of the Socialist Party, being the opinion that, by discontinuing her mandate João Rodrigues, fulfils the legal requirements, with effect from 7 April 2018, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. Pause If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Welcome again, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor again, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u4	The second opinion has to do with a judicial action to be taken at the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Justice of Lisbon, 7, Case No 26087 / 17, and it is in the interest of authorising Mrs Berta Cabral to testify, in writing, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. Pause If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I shall now read the message of the President of the Republic concerning the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII — The second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the work director who is not subject to special legislation and duties applicable to them, and for the first amendment to Law No 41 / 2015 of 3 June establishing the legal regime applicable to the exercise of the construction activity: « The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 196 / XIII of 3 April 2018, amends Law No. 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 which approved a legal regime establishing the professional qualification of technicians responsible for drawing up and subscribing projects by the supervision of work and the management of work, repealing legislation, in particular 1973, and establishing a transitional regime of five years for certain technicians. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members standing to sit down because I am reading a message from the President of the Republic. So, I appreciate that you guys. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing are feeling as quickly as possible. [[Pause.]] I continue to read the message from Mr. President of the Republic : « by Law No 40 / 2015 of 1 June, it was allowed for those technicians to continue their activities in transit for another three years. The diploma now approved by the Assembly of the Republic, without any new fact being known to justify it, will ultimately transform the said transitional regime, approved in 2009, after a negotiation between all parties involved, and extended in 2015, thus questioning the broad consensus then obtained and constituting a backwardness in relation to that negotiation, fundamentally altering a transition in time for a stay of the exception, born before 25 April 1974. in this regard, I decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 196 / XIII of 3 April 2018, which is the second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification for technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of work and for the management of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them, and for the first amendment to Law No 41 / 2015 of 3 June 2015 establishing the legal regime applicable to the pursuit of construction activity. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, today's Conference of Leaders was scheduled for May 4th to reassess this diploma as a result of the veto of the President of the Republic. In view of the fact that no time was allocated for discussion on this point, we moved on to the second item of the agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No. 822 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concretization of the second phase of the revision of the reform scheme in advance of flexibility by eliminating double penalty for long-term pensioners ( BE ) to 63 years of age. To open the debate, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are tens of thousands of people with eyes on the debate we are making today and on the choices and decisions we are going to make. The issue of reforms and pensions is one of the most sensitive, because the value of reform recognizes the work of a lifetime. The value attributed at the time of the reform is definitive and, by law itself, it will never be recalculated, so the reform assigned remains for the rest of life and determines the conditions of justice and dignity in the day to day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u8	Pensioners and pensioners were particularly attacked during the years of austerity. With the PSD and CDS rules, they suffered all kinds of cuts: on the one hand, the age of the reform increased every year and, on the other hand, the calculation of the so-called sustainability factor was changed—in 2011 it meant a 3% cut, in 2015 it already exceeded 13 % and this year is going to be 14 %. The combination of these two changes — age of reform and cutback of sustainability — led to a double penalty in early reforms. As the legal age of the reform increases, it also increases the penalty for each month of distance between the legal age of retirement and the age of the worker at the time when the pension is required. This penalty of 0, 5 % per month, that is 6 % per year, is then added the sustainability factor. As if it were not enough, PSD and CDS still cut off the bonuses that the workers had, corroborating the bonuses for the long contributing careers that there was until 2012. All in all, there were workers who, at the end of a life of discounts, had cuts of more than 50% in the value of their pension and who were sentenced to receive until the end of their life a pension below the poverty threshold. at the end of 2015, Parliament changed and formed a new majority, also to change the policy for pensioners. According to the Left Block, the law was defrosted which determines the automatic updating of pensions, and it was the defrosting and even the extension of this law that led to the increase of pensions by €10 the pensions by €600 or the increase by €14 the pensions by €850. In 2017 and 2018, the majority of parliament also approved an extraordinary update so that pensions with increases below 10 € would have a supplement from August. In 2017, we also made an extraordinary update of the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI), which went up again this year to bring back the 70 000 elderly to whom the PSD and CDS cut this support. in the 2018 Budget, we include in the pension supplement the injured Mota Soares,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u9	... pensioners sentenced to poverty by the CDS-PP and who did not even have access to the solidarity complement for the elderly. With the approval of this Block proposal, 8100 injured from the CDS have already been notified to receive the supplement. [[Congratulations from BE.]] For reasons of social justice, the Left Block has always defended the right to pension without penalties to 40 years of work or 65 years of age, without prejudice to special schemes for rapid wear and tear. This principle, which should be accompanied by the diversification of sources of social security financing, through the contribution of intensive capital firms, would enable the long-term contribution careers to be valued and would be an essential aspect of the distribution of employment and the fight against young unemployment. in this debate with the government, we did not agree on this principle nor on the need to halt the annual age of reform, but we reached agreement with the government on three very important matters. First of all, we have agreed on the need for reparation to those who have been forced into child labour. The realization of this commitment occurred with the approval of the law of the long-term careers, which ends with all penalties for those who seek early retirement and are 48 years old, or are 46 years old and have begun to make these discounts before the age of 15. The second aspect we agreed with the government concerns the need to compensate those who work early, valuing those who have 40 or more years of discounts. The Block proposal is to anticipate the legal age of reform in one year for more than 40 years of discounts; for its part, the Government defends a solution ranging from four to seven months of anticipation for each year to 40 years of discounts — they are different responses, but in principle agreement. The third agreed aspect refers to the need to end the double penalty resulting from the 14.5% sustainability cut applied to all early retirement pensions. The Block wanted to finish this cut in 2017 and the government proposed to us a meeting point between our position and itss, which was to phase out the end of this court in three years: in 2017, the court would disappear for those who began to discount when I was a child ; in January 2018, it would disappear for those who were 63 years old and who, at 60, were already 40 years of discounts ; and in January 2019, it would disappear for all the other pensioners, permanently eliminating that court of Portuguese law. The debate we are bringing here today is about the realization of this third commitment, formalized in May last year, of the second phase of the elimination of the cut-off of sustainability—only on that. Why does this 14-5% cut have to end? Of course, because it's illegitimate. When the so-called sustainability factor was created, the retirement age was fixed — 65 years — and the so-called sustainability factor applied to those who were reformed at the age of 65, affecting the effect of increasing the average life expectancy on the pension value. If the person wanted to work beyond the age of 65, he could continue to work for a few more months and cancel that cut. But since 2013 there has been no fixed retirement age and, from then on, such a sustainability cut has become a double penalty without any foundation or legitimacy. in this, Left Block, PCP, PS and Government agree: the sustainability factor is illegitimate, it has no foundation and has to end. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So when we discuss the end of this court we are not discussing a blessing that the Government chooses to give or not, depending on its economic scenarios or the taxation of Minister Mário Centeno. Don't! All partners agreed that the cut is illegitimate, so it is so important to fulfil this commitment and to end this cut during this legislature. That is what was agreed between the Left Block and the Government. What does the PS tell us about this today? That when he committed to the phase-up in May 2017, he did not know what was going to happen until the end of 2017, nor could he foresee the value of the pension update in 2018, nor did the expenditure corresponding to that increase. That's all true. But the fact that the country has grown more than expected is only an additional reason to achieve this commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u11	Why? Because the growth that determined the increase in pensions also meant higher revenue for the State, through taxes and contributions to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u13	In addition, in the 2018 Budget, the Government provided an increase of EUR 883 million in social security contributions. This also adds the increase from the value added tax — EUR 27 million in revenue — the additional to the IMI (municipal property tax) paid by the luxury real estate — EUR 50 million this year — or the part of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) returning to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security (FEFSS ) — EUR 70 million. Is there room for this compromise to be fulfilled? Of course I do. Just want to. The Minister of Finance has announced for days that, meeting the target of the deficit approved in this Parliament, there is a strike of EUR 800 million. Should this strike serve for the Government to go beyond the goals it has set with Brussels or, on the contrary, should it serve to honour the commitment to pensioners and implement a negotiated proposal with left-wing partners, announced in the social dialogue and with the unanimous support of employers' and trade union confederations? Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority do not agree with everything concerning social security or the pension system, but we agree that we cannot waste any opportunity to do what needs to be done. It is time to look at those who have already given so much and do justice to those who deserve all our respect. Today, we have a duty not to frustrate the expectations that the government has created with tens of thousands of workers who want to reform themselves, as their right is. It is time to honour our mandate and use the resources we have to fulfill our commitments to those with whom we have a whole working life. The appeal we make is simple: that this Bloc bill is adopted, that Members and Members of this Parliament give this fundamental signal, which, in the specialty, works to achieve it. in our country, there is an entire generation that began to work long ago, but the work life they have already taken is not being valued. These people are being victims of an unfair and illegitimate court that puts them with poor pensions. What justice exists in this? No justice, and today we have the opportunity to correct this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u14	Mr José Soeiro, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members of the CFP, PS, PS, PS, and CDS-PP, to request clarifications. Please inform the Bureau of how you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u15	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u16	We begin with the request to clarify Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to begin by congratulating BE on the subject of today's debate, on the long, contributory careers, which the CFP has regularly spoken about, even presenting a very broad set of proposals. But, in particular, about the bill that BE presents to us and that is effectively under discussion, there are issues that, in our view, deserve clarification. What BE brings us today is a legislative initiative that has just been cut short of the proposal that the government itself took on, in May last year, and which partially implements the second phase of the revision of the early reform regime — a revision that is the responsibility of the government, a timetable that was taken by the government and whose compliance with the government did not exist. This second stage, also in accordance with the commitments made by the Government, should have entered into force in January this year and so far nothing has been done. With this proposal, BE ends up taking that same delay and it was important to know, Mr President, if the initiative is approved, when it will be implemented. A few months from now? With the next State Budget? At the beginning of next year? When will this response that BE proposes come to the workers who intend to reform in advance? What timetable does BE assume, considering that a law of the Assembly of the Republic has limitations on its entry into force that a government decree does not have? It is that, rather than requiring the Government to make effective use of long-contributory careers, BE is passing on to the House the responsibility to resolve the situation created by the failure of the government to comply with the assumed timetable, disresponsibility of the government and even diminishing the scope of the amendments. We cannot fail to say that this proposal falls short of what is necessary, it is short of expectations created, and it is even less than the proposal that the Government presented in May 2017 on the long-term contribution careers. In fact, the BE proposal does not consider the creation of the personal age of reform according to the contribution career, as stated in the Government's initial proposal, and has no solution for people who started their contribution career very early, before the age of 16, that is now considered child labour, and that the Government's proposal also envisaged, having been planned for the first stage and ultimately not being implemented. Mr José Soeiro, on the long-term contribution careers, what the CFP believes is that we must indeed go further in its scope and also require the Government to fulfil the commitment it has made a year ago. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u18	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u19	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, the Government of the Socialist Party took as priority the recovery of the available income of families, workers and pensioners. But it should be recalled here that it was the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the left parliament, that guaranteed the sustainability of social security and that, above all, guaranteed the improvement of the living conditions of Portuguese and Portuguese through the implementation of multiple measures. In other words, he gradually restored the reference values of the solidarity complement for the elderly and extended the access to early retirement pensioners since 2014 ; he gradually replenished the reference values of the social income of insertion and changed the legal framework, undermining the annual renewal process, and recognized the right to benefit from the date on which the application is properly instructed ; he carried out the automatic updating of the pensions of the contribution and non-contributory schemes, based on applicable legislation, which was suspended; and updated the IAS (indicative of social support), starting at €421, 32. It also proceeded to an extraordinary update in August 2017, and will proceed to another extraordinary update in the next month of August 2018, as a way to compensate for the loss of purchasing power of minimum pensions that were not updated between 2011 and 2015 ; it updated the disability bonus ; it increased the amount of assistance allowance to 3. the person; updated the family allowance amounts and restored the 4. the step; increased the family allowance for single-parent families and created the social benefit for the inclusion of people with disabilities. In 2016, it created an extraordinary measure to support long-term unemployed and extended it from 2018 onwards. At the end of the 10 % cut-off in unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant, comprising 42 506 beneficiaries ; it created a new scheme for workers'contribution to green receipts, and increased the social minimum with the increase in the IAS. As far as long-term contributions are concerned, pensioners today receive an average of 18, 2 % and of the requests submitted 10 000 were deferred and 4000 are already paid. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all this is due to the consistency of the Socialist Party's Government in managing social protection and the sustainability of social security. And that is how the public system is strengthened! We are on April 11, 2018, on 3. the Legislative Session, and all the commitments made by the Government in the social area have already been implemented. In fact, much more has been done than was planned, but by the way, it does not please everyone! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] however, there are those who understand that it is better to speed up the processes by presenting new proposals, interrupting the ongoing negotiation process. But Portuguese and Portuguese know that they can count on the Government of the Socialist Party, because it guarantees a public social security system, promotes well-being and effectively combats poverty. [[Protests by PSD Members Clara Marques Mendes and Maria das Mercês Borges.]] If we really want a sustainable public system, for the benefit of all, we cannot run the risk of acting without a rigorous assessment of the impact of measures on the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u20	It was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u21	Thus, we would like to know whether the Left Block can inform us of the total cost of the proposed measure and its impact on the social security budget for 2019, since due to the norm-work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u22	What rule? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u23	the proposal presented here today cannot be implemented in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u24	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u25	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I am grateful for the questions you have asked me. The Left Block and the CFP share the principle that there should be a possibility for workers to retire at the age of 60, without penalties, when they are 40 years of discounts. We also share with the CFP the principle of the protection of long-contributory careers and the Left Block defends an individual age of reform that goes through the reduction, in a year of legal age, for each year, beyond 40 years of discounts. We also argue that irrespective of this, the government must comply with what it has committed, which is the second stage. The Bloc bill is no less than what the government document says about the second stage. Not at all, Mrs. Deputy! Phase two: future pensioners aged 63 or older, who meet the condition that they have at least 40 years of contributing career. It's about this that affects the project of the Left Block. The entry into force is in the project itself — 30 days after its publication. Unfortunately, in the Assembly of the Republic, we cannot make a project in April with the date of January, which was the date on which we expected this amendment to enter into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u27	So we know that the right is against this project. The Socialist Party believes that it does not have the conditions to move forward now, but I am sure that the PCP will follow the proposal of the Left Block and will vote in favour of it. On the question posed by the Socialist Party, the Left Block values all the answers this majority has given to pensioners so far, and, Mrs. Sofia Araújo, in her speech only failed to say why there is no reason for Parliament to approve a compromise in the terms in which the Government itself made it. The honourable Member asked what the financial impact is, is in the Government document: EUR 132 million. On revenue, I also said recently, Mrs Deputies, that this Budget for 2018 provides for an increase of more than EUR 800 million in social security contributions, an increase of EUR 70 million in social security revenue via IRC (the income tax of the public), an increase of EUR 50 million in addition to the IMI (municipal property tax ), an increase of EUR 20 million through social VAT. Madam Member, this budget has the conditions to respond to these pensioners...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u29	... and that's what concerns us, because we know what we've done by pensioners, but I think it's not just the Left Block Parliamentary Group that gets dozens of letters every day. For example, a pensioner who writes to us the following: « Look at the thousands of people who feel unjust. Ex. Gentlemen, move forward with the initiative. I'm 63 years old, I'm getting all broken, as usual, and I don't see the reform in sight. I thank you for your attention». There is another person who writes to us, among many, and who tells us about the impact of cutting the sustainability factor on his pension. We are talking about a worker who has 45 years of discounts — I repeat, 45 years of discounts — and who, in a pension of 600 €, cutting the sustainability factor, which is illegitimate, and we all agree that it is illegitimate, means, per month and until the end of life, that he will have less € 85 in a pension of 600 €. This is not done! That's why we say it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate all the way we have done and will do, but we also say that it is full of justice and that it is now possible to respond by these pensioners. This is what we will continue to make during this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u30	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u31	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I begin by saying that for the PSD the pension system associated with the issue of its sustainability is a matter of greatest importance. I also want to say that the PSD is today, as it has always been, concerned about pensioners, currents and futures, so it cannot even embark on these exercises of pure hypocrisy that the Left Block is already getting used to.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u32	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u33	Yesterday, the Left Block supported the government ; today it is opposition ; tomorrow it is again supporting the Government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of opposition, because you are asking the PS whether he will comply with the Government's Programme and my question, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is this: has the Left Block already forgotten that it supports this government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u35	The Socialist Party has already announced that this initiative will be rocked, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! So, what is the Left Block going to do? Will you stop supporting this government, don't you honor the word? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u37	It is a motion of censure to the government! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u38	Or all this is just a mere spectacle of pure populism, to be the first to put the poster on the street saying that they care about these pensioners, when then, the next day, they leave the opposition and back up to this government, who accuse them of not meeting?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u39	All right! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u40	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is too serious for you to go systematically in pure exercises of balance, in mere games of power.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u41	Well remembered! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u42	If, in fact, the Left Block is concerned about the pension system, if, in fact, the pension system needs reforms, because the injustices remain, then I ask: why have the PSD proposal to set up a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the public social security system? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u43	We didn't fall into traps!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u44	The PSD is, as it has always been, available to debate seriously the problems affecting these workers and all pensioners. Does the Left Block, with the supporting government, have the same will? Oh, my God! Or are they going to continue to amend, without actually solving the problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u45	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u46	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to make a social security reform, but we must do it in a comprehensive and non-caustistic way so as not to compromise its sustainability. We want and must combat the injustices, social injustices that sometimes pension systems also generate, but we must do this fight against social injustice through a structural reform, solid and concerted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u48	... not to compromise future generations and guarantee all workers and pensioners, current and future, fair and balanced pensions. This is the way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u49	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u50	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, we have heard here today the Left Block extremely serious accusations about what the government has been doing. We have heard here about commitments made, by the way, with the Left Block, commitments formalized in May, with dates, contextualized, after a dialogue, after an approximation of debates. The Left Block, which, if they have forgotten, is a party that supports this government, makes here extremely serious accusations and statements that compromise not only the honour but also the most basic credibility of this government. [[BE's protests.]] Well, if the Left Block makes these statements about the government that approves, who is the CDS, party that is in opposition, to question them and to question them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u52	If the Left Block says that the government lies and lacks its commitments, it is certainly not the CDS that will defend the honour of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u53	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u54	But we are not surprised that the Government, represented here by the Socialist Party, the only thing you have to say about this matter is that it is available to approve what the Left Block proposes, but only in August, and that the problem of the Left Block is not having considered the financial impact of the measures it will adopt in a few months. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u55	The credibility and sustainability of the Socialist Party and this government are well seen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u56	But there are more, ladies and gentlemen. Members: here, and again, what the Left Block shows is that, inconsistencies in incoherence, it is heading for total inconsistencies. Otherwise, let us see: for those who do not remember, at the beginning of this debate, the Left Block advocated that anyone with more than 40 years of contributing career should be able to enter a reform without any penalty. Long goes that long when the Left Block advocated this matter. What an incoherence! What inconsistency, for it has passed so little time and, after all, it is already proposing a completely different measure from that which it once advocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u57	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u58	More: Just a few months ago the Portuguese knew what the plan of the Left Block with the government was. It was said that workers over the age of 60 and 48 years of a contribution career or over the age of 60 and 46 years of a contribution career, provided they had started their discounts at the age of 14, would not have any penalty and could have access to early reform, under conditions equal to those that would access at the end of the reform period. Now, the Portuguese were surprised by a measure, which the Government has approved, for those who want access to the early reforms and are in this interval of age and career contributions. After all, the government took one hand and took the other because the government, when it announced the measure, did not say that workers accessing the early reforms would be excluded from the rate of bonus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u59	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u60	And the Left Block agrees with this measure? Does the Left Block deal with a government that has withdrawn these workers from the rate of subsidy? The Left Block was either brought or not by the government, which says it gives and draws penalties, but after all, it is not true. If it is true that it removes the rate of subsidy, when you will see the finding of the measures, what results is much less than what has been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u61	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u62	And that means one thing: inconsistencies, inconsistencies. The Left Block is here talking about the entry into force of the second phase, but it has not yet tried to eliminate the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the first phase. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as if it were not enough, we have arrived here today and what the Left Block has to propose to this Parliament and to the Portuguese is that they adopt a law which will only come into force next year. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is totally incomprehensible in the light of what the Left Block has promised, in the light of the timetable which it has clearly combined with the Government. That is why the conclusion is one: if the Government is missing the truth from the Left Block, it is no less true that the Left Block is missing the truth from the workers, pensioners, Portuguese and goes, basically here, pretending numbers that are totally inconsistent, totally inconsistent and have no kind of credibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u63	There's a need for discharge! [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u64	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the Socialist Party alone cannot lead this project to the Left Block. The project will only be plunged if the PSD hands over the Socialist Party and the Government in this debate. [[It's for the PS bench you have to talk about!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u66	Mr. CDS-PP said that the CDS would not spend time defending the honour of the government, but would use its vote to prevent this proposal from being approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u68	Thus, between handing over to the government or handing over to pensioners, the CDS chooses in this debate to hand over to the government to postpone the justice that needs to be done to pensioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member came here to talk about the honour of the CDS and the PSD Member spoke about the need for a solid and concerted structural reform of social security. I would like to share some cases about the solid and structural reform of the PSD and the CDS for social security. A worker aged 49 years and 100 days of discounts that he writes to us telling us that « After all the bills made, what I revolted is that I stayed with a pension that is 60% of my order. After a contributory career of almost 50 years he still had to lead with the sustainability factor». This is one of the injured former Minister Mota Soares who is now entitled to the solidarity complement, which we have approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[That's for the PS bench!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u69	But I have more examples, I have several examples, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. A worker with 48 years of discounts who, according to the rules of the CDS and PSD and his concern with solid reform, had a cut of €266 in a pension of less than €600. This is justice and structural reform on the right. Therefore, we are not surprised that in this debate the right choice, once again, does not make justice to pensioners, turn their backs on pensioners and prevent workers who want to retire from reform themselves from doing so without penalties. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking about a legislative agenda, the Left Block initiative, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that there is an effective vote on this initiative at the end of the debate. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the Left Block brings today for discussion aims to eliminate double penalty for long-term pensioners at 63 years of age. We are therefore talking about issues involving people who have felt the effects of the policies of the previous Government, the PSD Government / CDS. In fact, if Portuguese families, in general, have reason to be left to feel hurt and unjust with the impoverishment strategy imposed by the previous government, more reasons have the pensioners and pensioners, who were the real bombs of a party for which they were not even invited, neither were they taken nor found. We are talking about the policies of austerity and their stewardess, which they proclaimed to the world, the inevitability of having to cut and penalise pensioners, because it was necessary to feed the interests of the bank. The result, for reformers and pensioners, could be no other and was more than predictable: the loss of purchasing power, poverty and social exclusion, because, as we know, for the previous government was worth everything. Up to payment pensions were at risk; it was not for the Constitutional Court to put a brake on such claims from the PSD and CDS until these pensions would be cut. In fact, everything was worth the previous government. Fortunately, in this case, we can say that the guilt ended by not dying single because, in fact, the Portuguese finally put these parties away from the government. And good! I am glad that, if we were not to discuss returns, we would certainly continue to discuss cuts and more cuts; and although the solution found on the left sought to reverse the path followed by the right and assumed as a greater aim the return of rights and the recovery of people's incomes and, therefore, also pensioners and pensioners. We are talking about income and rights which, it is recalled, had been withdrawn by the imposition of the previous government or following the austerity policies that the previous government had pursued and embraced as if it were a dogma, as if a dogma were being treated. And as much as it costs some, the truth is that this path is being made. In this respect, therefore, we will have to appreciate, in particular, the return of the law on the annual increase in pensions or the extraordinary increases that pensions now know. But at the same time, we also have to say that it is not enough and not enough, of course, because the injustices have not all been repaired. in this universe of injustices are, of course, people with long contributing careers who continue to suffer felt penalties. In fact, as we all remember, the former Government also aggravated the penalties, with regard to the early reforms, and worsened them on two fronts: through the increase in the legal age of reform and also through the changes in the sustainability factor. Now, if it is true that steps have already been taken to remove these injustices, particularly since October last year, for people who are 60 years old or over 48 years old and who seek early retirement, it is also true that the implementation of the plan announced by the government itself continues to fail to see the light of the day. It is not only the elimination of the sustainability factor, but also the maintenance of the cut of 0, 5 % for those who requested the reform at 63 years of age or older and had at least 40 years of discount. It should be recalled that these rules, according to the Government itself, should enter into force at the beginning of this year. We are in April and on this matter we have not yet seen light at the bottom of the tunnel. It happens that the longer the implementation of this plan takes place, the longer the injustice remains for thousands and thousands of reformers who remain subject to absolutely unjust penalties. It is therefore necessary for people with long careers to no longer be subject to this long nightmare. The Greens therefore also follow the concerns raised in the proposal under discussion, even because it seems to us that the government is no longer able to say that there is no budgetary margin for these and other social justice measures. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u72	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with some perplexity that I announce you that there are no more entries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u73	They're waiting for the reform! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u74	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are waiting to interrupt me when the debate is closed. [[Pause.]] Before giving the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira, for an intervention, I would ask the other parliamentary groups who wish to participate in the debate to sign up until the end of Mrs Diana Ferreira's speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Possibility of accessing the reform without penalties with 40 years of discounts and regardless of age; elimination of the sustainability factor; replacement of the legal age of reform within 65 years; solutions directed to workers in a long-term unemployment situation, facilitating their access to early retirement; answers that correct injustices for those who were pushed for early reform, suffering very severe penalties. These are the proposals presented by the CFP Parliamentary Group for an effective and sound appreciation of the long-term contribution careers. The answers we have presented to the workers and reformed are of the utmost justice, are autonomous from the government's proposals, not dependent on calendars or processes of others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We note as positive steps the legislative amendments of last October, in particular from the prospects that have opened up in the field of valuing long-term contribution careers, but we must not fail to consider that these have fallen short of the expectations created and the imperative need to do justice to those who have spent their entire lives working. It is not fair, it is not acceptable that, after 40 years of work, those who retire may suffer very severe penalties in the reform which they request or, alternatively, be forced to work to survive until they reach the legal age of retirement. It is not acceptable to impose the return to the time when people were forced to work up to the limit of their lives and forces. Forty years of contributions to social security, 40 years of production of wealth for our country, are years that must be valued with the possibility of reform without penalties, especially if we take into account that a significant part of these workers have started working very early and have long and hard years of work, with physical and psychological wear. It is of the most fundamental justice that the worker's right with 40 or more years of discounts, regardless of age, can opt for the right to reform without any penalty or reduction, such as the most elementary social justice the elimination of the sustainability factor and the replacement of the legal age of reform in the 65 years. The PCP has always opposed the introduction of the sustainability factor, and has already repeatedly proposed its elimination. And we are always opposed to increasing the age of reform, now subject to a formula that makes it grow from year to year. The increase in retirement age and sustainability factor were economic instruments that degraded the living conditions of workers and pensioners, who called into question their right to age with the right to a decent pension and that put the increase of the average life expectancy, important conquest of humanity, against workers and the service of the perpetuation of exploitation. It is also important to respond to the workers who have already retired and have suffered severe penalties. Understanding that it is imperative to restore justice criteria to these reformers, we present solutions that eliminate these penalties. Those who were forced to retire in advance with gross cuts in their pensions are entitled to a response to this situation, a response presented by the CFP. Similarly, it is important to find an answer for long-term unemployed people who do not penalise them for not finding employment, nor in many situations are they considered too old to work and too new to reform, being pushed into an early reform situation, with large cuts in the value of their reforms. A response that the CFP seeks to achieve, thereby eliminating, from the point of view, the penalization of the sustainability factor. Speaking for many years and with concrete proposals on the valorization of long-term contribution careers, since the beginning of the ongoing process of reviewing the rules of access to early retirement, the CFP has defended the need to take these changes further, to cover as many workers as possible, under the best conditions, doing justice to all those who have worked or worked and who deserve to see their work and their contributing career duly valued. We therefore spoke with proposals in the budget of the State, so we insisted and delivered this set of legislative initiatives. Workers and reformers in our country can count on the PCP to stop this fight! It is on this path that we are, a path of justice and social progress! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, at the initiative of the Left Block, the implementation of the second phase of the revision of the reform regime in advance of flexibility for long-term contribution careers. This is of the utmost relevance, because, apart from those who may benefit from the flexibility of the early reform regime, it also concerns workers who, with more or less years of social security discounts, have the right expectation to receive a fair and proportionate reform to the discounts they have made. With this debate, the Left Block aims to achieve two clear objectives. First objective: to turn the Socialist Party to the wall and force it to vote favourably on the bill that presents, regardless of other factors and the discussion that the Government is developing in the center of social consultation, which, in fact, to the Left Block has no relevance nor deserves any respect. If it were not the serious implications that these attitudes have implied for the future of Portuguese, it would be appropriate to say: "The coalition friends who understand each other! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Secondly, with the approach of the legislative elections, as a true populist party that is, the Left Block, with this initiative, overcomes, without any political shame, the PS and the PCP and appears in the eyes of the workers who are able to access the reform as their great defender.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u78	Looks like Marques Mendes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u79	With this, the Left Block does not reveal the slightest concern about the sustainability of social security or about future pensioners. We return to the old and dangerous motto: « Everything for some now, for others will soon be seen».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u81	The Socialist Party, with the need to remain in government, accepts everything and even deals with facilitation and populism, promising everything to everyone to preserve power. [[PSD applause.]] And now did you remember that a rigorous study of the financial impact of the measure is needed? Oh, my God! After all, the word given, by the way, is not honored. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u82	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party has already demonstrated to the Portuguese that, above all, it completely rejects populism and puts the interests of the country and of all Portuguese first. We recognize that many workers have started their work still very young and that this situation should be taken into account and valued. Even more so than the social security system, because of its complexity and scope, it closes up some injustice situations that need to correct and improve. There is no doubt that in this question of long-contributory careers what prevails is the age at which workers started their discounts, and in many cases they have started from very young. However, by making changes in a single and single-centred way, the Left Block further distorts the system, removing its clarity and transparency and jeopardising the confidence of citizens. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] The PSD does not want a social security system in which the rule is the exception that is emerging according to the interests of the moment—for some, the proximity of elections; for others, the need to ensure the sustainability of the government. The PSD has long defended a decomplicated reflection and without a heavy demagogic and ideological burden on the need to undertake a structural reform of social security rather than, according to the interests of the moment and in an avulge way, lay new patches on old cloth, because « no one should put on new cloth in old clothing, because similar patch breaks the clothing and makes it more ruptured». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u83	in this sense, the PSD presented a proposal for the establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system, a proposal that the governing parties rejected. The PS would have had a wonderful opportunity to now have the study on the financing and cost of this measure! [[PSD applause.]] Today, with this debate, it is more than ever proven that the proposal submitted by the PSD was justified and continues to be justified. Even more so, if the initiative we presented had been approved and implemented, the conclusions and proposals would already be available. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that the Portuguese have everything to gain from a social security reform that is not only cosmetic and punctual, but that it is a real paradigm change.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u85	A reform that responds to the enormous challenge facing Portuguese society with the need to adapt the pension system to demographic, economic and financial reality, ensuring its financial and social sustainability. A reform that takes into account that we live a time of profound and rapid changes, both at the level of the organization of work, both in the production methods of companies and institutions, and that will tend to be more and more intense and profound. A reform that takes into account the impacts of advances in digitisation and robotics, in which companies with a lot of labor are increasingly giving rise to intensive capital firms. A reform that takes into account the need to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the system. A reform that equates, without prejudice and with long-term vision, the sources of social security revenue. A reform that takes account of the levels of penosity and wear of many professions and introduces rigorous criteria, with fairness and transparency in defining the professions of rapid wear rather than to legislate in a vulva and without rigour. A reform involving the participation of the social partners, the academic and scientific world and civil society in general, because everyone is concerned. A reform that has clear, transparent and just rules that prevail over several years to ensure the trust of workers who discount during their professional career in the perspective of having their reform guaranteed in the future. A reform that corrects situations of injustice and injustice that cover many workers and prevents the present system from revealing itself to the Portuguese as a fair and equitable pension system. A reform that guarantees the principles and values that are intrinsic to the social security system and that contribute to the promotion of equality and social cohesion and to the fight against poverty and social inequalities. in this sense, we continue to argue that social security reform must be done at the moment the economy grows and the accounts of social security are somewhat more balanced, much different from the times we were in government. Therefore, we keep in mind that the financial breakdown of the public pension system has already been announced, through a serious and in-depth study, without being subject to conditionalisms and strangulations, with a long-term vision, with factors of equity and transparency. thus, we consider that we are thinking in the country and in Portuguese in general and not in mere political tactics to see who wins who, with populist maneuvers and political blackmail. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can and should discuss everything, but with seriousness and sense of responsibility, guaranteeing the rights of current pensioners without compromising the expectations and rights of the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Defending the public pension system is defending and ensuring its sustainability, and this is the main issue of today's debate. What this Government has done, supported by this parliamentary majority, is to ensure the sustainability of social security while strengthening social protection in Portugal. There is no misunderstanding: this Government's choice is, from the outset, to strengthen the sustainability of social security and at the same time to strengthen social protection. This has been the case since 2015. With this government it was decided to replace the reference values of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the extension of access to early retirement pensioners since 2014 ; the replacement of the reference values of the social income of insertion; the automatic updating of the pensions of the contribution and non-contributory schemes as the basis of the outstanding calculation formula; the increase of the IAS ( indexing of social support) by 2, 3 %; the increase in the amount of the allowance for assistance to the third person; the updating of the amounts of the family allowance and the replacement of the 4. the step; the increase in family allowance for single-parent families; the updating of disability bonus; the creation of social benefit for inclusion; the creation in 2016 of an extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed, with enlargement from 2018; the end of the 10% cut in unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant, covering 42 506 people; and the creation of the new contribution scheme for self-employed. These policies have a very positive impact on people's lives and radically contrast with the options of the previous government, but they also meet another fundamental objective: they hinder the ability and argumentary of all those and those who do not give up in selling the need for the privatization of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, social security is one of the greatest assets of our country. The social security system has been built and developed in the contribution and redistributive principle in order to ensure sustainability based on intergenerational solidarity. One of the fundamental conditions for this system to be self-sustainable is that it does not depend on extraordinary transfers from the State budget. For this, it is essential that the decisions taken are weighted and accountable. And this is what this government is doing, too. It is good to remember here that in 2013 and 2014 there was a need over the two consecutive years to make extraordinary transfers from the State budget to social security of more than EUR 2000 million in order to compensate for the deficit. In 2018 there was neither the need for transfers from the State budget to social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There will not be because the economy grows, employment grows, and contributions follow that same growth. But there will also be no reason why the Government and this parliamentary majority have assumed, since the beginning of their mandate, the political and strategic objective of creating the conditions for the rebalancing of social security accounts, in particular by the diversification of their sources of funding, and in 2017 the additional IMI was approved and in 2018 the provision of IRC revenues to social security was approved. This is the path to the sustainability of a system. This is the way of defending public social security, not only today but in the future! It is also good to remember that the social security sustainability reports annexed to the State budgets have worsened forecasts between 2012 and 2015 for the balance of the Social Security Financial Stability Fund ( FEFSS ). If, in 2012, the forecasts maintained the Fund's positive balance until the 2050s, in 2015, when that government took possession, the same forecasts would only ensure the balance of the Fund's accounts by 2020. This sudden decline of 30 years cannot be attributed only to unemployment and emigration of the years of the crisis. There were political options that contributed to this degradation, with the aim of opening the way to the discourse of the need to think about adopting private pension systems. Today, the positive balance of the FEFSS is forecast to last until the mid-2040s. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing another measure, which is also very important with regard to social justice. This measure is the possibility of, under decent conditions, allowing workers and workers with long careers to access reform without penalties before the legal age established for the generality of workers. This measure, from the initiative of the Government, was initiated in the first stage with a special scheme of early access to old-age pension for beneficiaries of the general social security scheme and the social protection scheme convergent with long-term contribution careers. It is worth noting that the possibility of anticipation of reforms was frozen by the former Government and when the current government took possession and defrosted these pensions came into being in a situation that constituted gross penalties due to the changes made by the former Government in the calculation of the sustainability factor, which produced a cutting effect of 14 % in addition to the age penalty. Thus, in the face of this escalation, the government suspended the process so that it could create a fair and sustainable system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The model that came into force in October 2017 for the very long contributory careers, allows those who are 48 years old or older and 60 or older or, then, those who are 46 years old and start working until 14 years old, the possibility of accessing early retirement in more favorable conditions. In five months approximately 10 000 pensions have been granted, of which 4000 are already being paid. The average age of these pensioners is 61, 5 years and the average monthly value of EUR 806. This measure allowed the average value of these pensions to be valued at 18, 2 %, which represents a gain of EUR 124 per month, i.e. EUR 1736 / year/ pensioner. This system of early reforms foresees until the end of the Legislature a phase of flexibility of the early retirement age, allowing access to these workers, taking into account their age and contribution career, but without penalizing the sustainability factor. To date, these measures have been widely discussed, negotiated and negotiated within the current parliamentary majority, who is well aware of the complexity, demands and costs of this process. At no time can we accept to question the sustainability of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of the thawing and improvement introduced in the calculation formula in 2016, as well as the growth of the economy above 2 %, which is, fortunately, a real increase in above-inflation pensions, new requirements are imposed as the program is being thought and programmed. At no time has the government called into question to break the commitment made by 2019 and it will not. contrary to what has already been said, the processes are dynamic, as well as the negotiation process. We cannot accept that such a measure, negotiated within the current majority, can be subject to such a vote, violating the labour law, and with a budgetary impact that has not been calculated and that must be discussed, and we are available to discuss it, in the context of the negotiations of the State budget for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government of the Socialist Party and the parliamentary majority who support it have common objectives: to allow those and those who have long careers to be able to reform themselves with adequate income and a dignified situation. That's what we're doing. That's what we're gonna keep doing. This measure will remain for history as one of those most honored by this parliamentary majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u88	Two Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I ask the honourable Member how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u89	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u90	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, then, for the first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u91	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, I will not ask you about the legitimacy that the Socialist Party attaches to this double penalty on the early reforms, and we know that they consider it illegitimate, as we do, nor will I ask you about social consultation, because, this time, it cannot be an excuse to move forward, being well known that the Government has taken its proposal there and is well known the unanimity of all trade unions and employers around the idea of eliminating this double penalty. The main argument of the Socialist Party in this debate is that of economic growth and the idea that, having grown above what was foreseen, the country put additional pressure on the automatic updating of pensions, according to law. This argument, Mrs Deputy, is perverse, and the Socialist Party is risking, if it takes a long way to create a new category in this process, which is the result of economic growth. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u92	Those people who have the expectation to achieve, as promised by the Government and as agreed between the partners, a elimination of this double penalty in the current context and during this legislature, which is the commitment of the Government, can see that expectation in function — see yourself well! — economic growth and the good results of the economy. Fortunately, Mrs Deputies, I believe that this will not happen and the damage to economic growth will not be created for a very simple reason: because it is in the view that, if this measure does not move forward, it is not because of economic growth, it is by a political option of the Government and the Socialist Party. Instead of giving the good news that growth brings to the country, to the economy, to people's incomes, to the automatic updating of pensions and also to the advance in the commitments and timetable that were established between the partners, the government does not do so, because the government's priority is another, is to go beyond the targets set with Brussels on the limits of deficit. It is therefore in this option to go beyond the goals established with Brussels or to meet the agreement, to meet the expectations created in tens of thousands of long-term workers, who are today the choice. Therefore, it is not the fault of economic growth. The political choice is about to do and what the Left Block recommends at this time is that the political solution bets on what has so far been successful: to create confidence; to be stable in its commitments; to create predictability in people's lives; not to create a constant doubt in their lives about what happens on the next day, and what these people think is that the next day what has been told them would happen, i.e. the elimination of this double abusive penalty. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if what is at stake is to look at this objective, it is to arrive at a solution that meets the compromise, as the honourable Member said, i.e. to eliminate this double taxation within the framework of this Parliament, if the objective is that, then, let us lower this project to the specialty and continue the work at that headquarters. This is the challenge we face to the Socialist Party, that is to say, to approve this project and allow the work to continue where it should continue, which is at the heart of specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u93	Mrs Carla Barros has the floor, also for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: following what has already been said by the PSD Parliamentary Group, I remember that this issue of early reforms and long-term contribution careers is a subject of special interest and great importance to the PSD Parliamentary Group. I would like to say that we are talking about something that has a direct and immediate impact on the lives of workers and on the day-to-day lives of their families, because it enters or does not enter any more money in the Portuguese pocket and that is what we are talking about. We also want to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that the system has imperfections that need to be repaired. My question is addressed to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and I would like you to. Members of the Socialist Party could explain what is happening today in this Parliament. What kind of scene is this happening in this debate, in which we have a party that supports this government solution to ask for explanations from the Socialist Party? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u95	What is going on in this Parliament today, so that a party such as the Left Block, which together with the Socialist Party subscribes the commitments to the Portuguese, is, today, here listing a number of failures, presenting a red card to the Socialist Party, presenting incongruences? It is that the Left Block appears today in this debate, let us say, with a clean soul condition, as if it had nothing to do with what is happening today in the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u96	But no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Member of the Socialist Party, the compromise is made jointly and when they lie to the Portuguese they also lie together. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u97	So I want to say that what is at stake here is a scene that deserves a great comment from the Socialist Party. I would also like to say, with regard to the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group, that the PSD recognises that there is enormous importance and a huge need to have a serious and consistent debate, but not under this political and media opportunism that the Left Block wants and has been accompanied by the Socialist Party. In fact, the Socialist Party even calls on the Left Block and the Left Block until it says that the Socialist Party does not honour or fulfil its commitment to the Portuguese. That I know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this political point, there are only two sides that oppose the government : the PSD and the CDS. Therefore, they understand and define themselves once and for all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u98	We understand, of course, that the correction of injustices has to be made, that the financing of social security needs to be studied, that there have to be recognition of the changes that have taken place in the economy, in the demographics, that we have to give calm to the Portuguese people who are now discounting and want to have the tranquillity that they will receive tomorrow and that social security is there when they need it. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, pensioners are waiting for a response from all parties that feed this government solution. The PSD may not even get the Socialist Party's response... It's not worth it, we no longer have illusions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u99	No illusions, no proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u100	...and I'm sure the Portuguese don't have any illusions either. Almost three years of government has passed and what we have found, first of all, is a non-purpose Socialist Party for the country, a socialist Party without courage, which has been taken over the radical left, taking to the country strange ways, paths of fracturing causes, of social disorganization, dangerous for young people and their families. Finally, a Socialist Party that commits itself to the Portuguese, that commits itself to the workers and does not comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u101	You guys have a morale! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u102	See the case of the precarious ones, who are still waiting for an answer today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u104	Another fracturing cause!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u105	Expectations cheated! Even Mr President of the Republic sensitizes the government to what is happening to the precarious ones. Look at the case of defrosting careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u106	Another fracturing cause!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u107	Even today, most public officials do not feel, in their maturity, the effect of defrosting careers. Well, this is the way, the road to blocking businesses, and now, here in debate, the path to a great lie, which was planned as a commitment in the Government programme but which is not taken today. We now see this staging of the Left Block, realizing that it's nothing with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u108	How are you going to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u109	Madam Member of the Socialist Party, yes, it is worth a comment on what is happening in this Parliament : indeed, a three-year government solution and what we have today is the experience of a toxic government for the country,... [[PS protests.]] I repeat, a toxic government for the country. In these three years, we have had an aimless government, as I said, and which, unfortunately, is learning, but this learning — listen, ladies and gentlemen — is at the expense of the sacrifice of the Portuguese. Do you know what the Socialist Party gentlemen have learned? The Socialist Party learned that when you want to speak clearly, seriously and responsible for the Portuguese, you cannot hit the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u110	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u111	That is, when you want to speak clear, serious and responsible for the Portuguese, you can't hit the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u112	Mrs. Deputy, this is a request for clarification...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u113	Here for us, our choice is for the Portuguese. I'm done, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u114	So crazy in six minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u115	This intervention should have been successful in the National PSD Council!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u116	In reply, Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u117	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Jorge Costa and the PSD Member for the questions and comments they have made. Mr Jorge Costa, economic growth is positive and positive for all. Economic growth is a positive aspect of the country that we consider to be good for all Portuguese, from younger children to older people. But we are not here to deal with the State budget, we are here to deal with the social security budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u119	And we are not saying — I did not say at any time — that economic growth is negative for pensions, in fact, it is even positive for pensions, since people start to have more income, because they receive more and have increases above inflation. I want to make it very clear here that this is something that the Socialist Government and we, based on the Socialist Party, consider extremely positive. however, we need to take into account the issue of social security sustainability, when we look at its dynamics and the impacts of everything that happens in the country in terms of social security. And we have never, at any time, said that we were not fulfilling our commitments, the commitments we made. Negotiation issues are dynamic, the country's moments are also dynamic and, when a work plan is foreseen, a strategy, this does not mean that there can be no factors that make it necessary to change deadlines, adjust procedures. We have never said at any time that we would not continue the adjustment process on this issue, because we believe that people who have worked so many years, and many of them have lost their childhood, are entitled to rest at the end of so many years of work and are entitled to reform, because they have discounted it. So let us make it very clear what the Socialist Party's position on this matter is. Mrs PSD, I would like to remind you of what happened to social security throughout the previous government process: there was a shameful attack on the public social security system. This is what happened in the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] O honourable Member, I have listened carefully to you, thank you very much for listening to me too! It was a shame! It is sufficient to look at the question of extraordinary transfers, which today are not necessary and which in the time of the PSD Government were constantly necessary, for the way in which the FEFSS (Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security) suffered a brutal decline, I repeat, a brutal decline and how you have developed a policy either of attack on the system, or of attack on the institution to challenge the social protection system and open the way to ceilings or, even worse, to the privatization of social security. Madam Member, the Portuguese and Portuguese know very well the difference between your government and the current government... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u120	Oh, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u121	...and it's not for you to repeat a thousand times that she becomes true. The Portuguese and Portuguese know the difference in receiving a holiday allowance and a Christmas allowance, they know the difference in the replacement of cuts in wages, they know the difference of what happens with pensions and reforms, they know the difference in the social income of insertion, they know the difference, for the elderly, of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. Madam Member, I am very sorry, and deeply, for your speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u122	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion that is proposed here today is about matters and realities of the greatest importance. Access to pensions for those who have long contributing careers confronts us with the life of work, delivery and sacrifice of Portuguese workers. It also confronts us with the advances in medicine and human development, with the marked increase in life expectancy, which in Portugal today, in average terms, stands above 80 years and, in the case of women, is more than 83 years. Today's debate therefore places us in the face of the sustainability of social security and the problems with which we are challenged. The debate today confronts us with all this, but that is not what has been brought here by its proponents. when listening to the Left Block and the other parties that make up this government solution, what they wanted here to discuss, after all, was the fulfilment or non-compliance of the agreement that this government holds, was the betrayal that the Block here denounced, and that feels, in front of the government's supporters. The Left Block has been discussing the regime introduced by this Government with regard to penalising long-term contributions, but in short what is being criticized concerns the late implementation of the measure announced by the Government. The timetable is therefore at stake. And the Left Block failed to explain how this initiative could anticipate this timetable. The Left Block knows well — it cannot ignore — that its initiative would only result in an entry into force in the next State budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the Left Block, the CDS did not approve the State Budget for 2018 and it is not expected that it will approve the next one. This initiative today is therefore no more than a number. An inconsequential, irrelevant, purely rhetorical number, in which perdular rhetoric has more critical. by the way, the Left Block closed its eyes to what is most extraordinary in what has been announced, in this regard, by the Government: since, against all that has been said before, it has diverted the rate of bonuses to those who intend to access early retirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u124	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u125	The government again does something different than what it has suggested and, yes, all workers — all! — irrespective of the stage of implementation of this measure, regardless of the years of their contribution, they will see the withdrawal of the bonus and will be penalized. It will be said: but there is still some advantage for some pensioners. Yes, it is true that there is an advantage for some pensioners, but it is also true that for many there is no advantage. According to the simulations, for example, anyone who has a 50-year-old career has started working at age 14 and asks for the 64-year-old reform will not see the punishment improved by this measure; also 51-year-old contributory career, who has started working at age 13 and has applied for the 64-year-old reform will not see the improved penalty; the same is true for those who have started working at age 16, have a contribution career of 49 years and are reformed at age 65, as well as for many others. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate is at stake because of the ethical limits that the entire political debate must respect. It confronts us with the limit of what is acceptable in which political action must and must be developed. We all here differ so often in the positions and measures that one or another parliamentary group proposes and defends. And we differed from the Left Block in the content of your proposal. This is part of the democratic game. The different thing is to miss the truth, manipulate and not take responsibility for what is proposed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true that the Government has negotiated with the Left Block the implementation of certain measures on a certain timetable? Oh, my God! Is it true or not that this was done without weighing the budgetary impact that what you previously negotiated would have on the public accounts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u126	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u127	The Socialist Party is here today saying this extraordinary thing: "We agree with the measures proposed by the Bloc, we agree with what we have already committed ourselves, but the impact of these measures has to be assessed." So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the Government commits itself to the Left Block, when it defends measures, does it not assess the financial impact of these measures? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not serious, it is not true, before the Portuguese, to refer everything to the State Budget for 2019, for which the only thing we know is that it will have to be executed by a government that will leave the next elections. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when assessing the financial impact of what they propose, it is good that they are in a position to take responsibility for these measures, because, if not, they sink the country, sink the future, sink the Portuguese, sink social security into a huge hole and a huge responsibility. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u129	We've seen that in the past, and that's not what the Portuguese want. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at the final stage of the debate, there are some issues that need to be raised, because, in fact, this debate is not only about justice for those who have worked a whole life and often much more than it should because it started working too early, but also about expectations. Not about the expectations created by some youth enthusiasm or that have come from the head of the workers themselves, but about expectations that have actually come from a commitment made by the Government and the Socialist Party to make progress on the amendment and revision of the early reform regime. So when we talk about these expectations and the measures of the Left Block, what we are talking about is the response we give to the country, it is the response we give to thousands and thousands of people who, since January, and we are now, in April, were waiting to see, and justly, their situation resolved, that they were waiting to see their contribution situation resolved with the minimum of justice that could be given to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u133	in this debate, it is also important to state—and it is not new for any pensioner, current or future—that the right has nothing to say about this discussion. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] And you see why. Because the right has a very large register for pensions, and we speak of a PSD and CDS that, after having made the biggest pension cuts ever practiced—and, if it were not a brake from the Constitutional Court, would have continued to cut even more—after the announced cut of 600 million a year that they wanted to make, in fact, this is the idea of the right of structural reforms! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u134	Turn to the PS bench, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u135	...including, after cutting off the solidarity complement for the elderly, after all this registration, they can still come to the Assembly of the Republic to make a show, crying crocodile tears by the people who destroyed their lives while they were in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u136	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u137	That's what this is about. But all pensioners, currents and futures, understand very well and therefore do not count on PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What is at stake right now is knowing who pensioners are counting on. They know that they can count on the Left Block, they also know that they can count on the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens, taking into account the interventions made here, and they need to know if they are counting on the Socialist Party. It is because the approval of this bill is essential to make the expectations that have been created. The adoption of this bill is essential not only to enforce an existing political commitment, which is obviously important, but above all to enforce a right of justice, which is due by this country to these workers. Finally, I'll say it's very easy to understand what's at stake with the approval of this project. I give another example: a pensioner, with 48 years of discounts, who began working at the age of 12, with such laws that PSD and CDS think that they did very well for the workers, will have a cut of €266 in their pension. With the approval of our bill, we are preventing these people from being polished from what their work has been for a lifetime. It is about this that we have to answer today and here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u138	Also for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate, scheduled by the Left Block, on the implementation of the revision of the reform regime for long-term contributions, there are now three conclusions that we can draw.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u140	There was already at the beginning!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u141	The first is that, once again, the government does not comply with what it commits. The Government has failed to fulfil its commitments with its coalition partners, the Government has failed to fulfil its commitments in its Government Programme. Worse, in addition to failing to comply, the Government cannot explain the reasons for this, as proved during this afternoon. It is the Left Block itself that accuses the Government of being constantly delaying what it has undertaken to do from 1 January 2018: to extend the early reform without penalty for longer contributions careers. With excuses from the bad payer, the government and the Socialist Party will try to argue there without arguments. After this afternoon, we do not understand what the strategy of the Government is and what the Socialist Party's position on this matter is. A second conclusion we have reached at the end of this debate is that the Left Block is still in its comfortable position of being now government or opposition. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] When the news is good, the Left Block is quick to say that the great responsible for them is the Left Block itself, and there it will post another poster on the Freedom Avenue! [[PSD laughter and applause.]] When the news is less good, then the Left Block immediately assumes the role of opposition, departs from the government and, in an opportunistic and populist exercise, comes to raise its voice against the government. Nothing more opportunistic, nothing more populist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u142	Tell that to the pensioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't want the best of two worlds. They assume on which side they are on the side of the government, and together they find a serious, concerted and capable solution to meet the interests of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u144	And is Mrs. Deputy on which side? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u145	Do not do these exercises to pretend they are on opposite sides, when they are, in fact, on the same side. Example of this, Mrs. Members, these are the proposals for amendments to labour legislation which resulted from an agreement between the Government and the Left Block and were submitted to the social partners. in fact, you, who say you are so concerned about older workers, are the same ones who do not care to protect these same workers in the amendments that they propose to labour legislation. An inexplicable contradiction! Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can conclude from this debate that the PSD Parliamentary Group was, and continues to be, right in the need for careful, serious, consistent and concerted analysis on the subject of social security. We do not reject, as we have never done, that the subject matter in question needs to be looked at, examined, in order to ensure that everyone has adequate and fair pensions, from the outset taking into account their contribution career. But we also understand, and we continue to understand, that we cannot try to resolve a situation in isolation today, with the risk of creating a greater problem in the future. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot legislate to think about tomorrow and forget about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u147	But this is what you want, and this is what you promise. They think immediately, without a global strategy, without a concerted strategy and, above all, without guarantees to the Portuguese that what they promise will come true tomorrow. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, we warn of the need for a social security reform that is able to respond to the challenge facing our society, that of adapting the pension system to our demographic, economic and financial reality, ensuring its financial and social sustainability, that is, a pension system that has current and future payment guarantees. Mrs. Members, as has already been mentioned today by the PSD Parliamentary Group, in this reform there should be numerous aspects, including the long-term contribution career and the levels of penoness and wear of the different professions, but also the need to involve the participation of the social partners, the academic and scientific world and civil society, because this is a matter that everyone is concerned about. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the government and the parties that support it must abandon this state of affairs: a state of management — election management and electoral management. [[PS protests.]] It is time, once and for all, to assume the responsibility of governing the interests of Portugal, the interests of all Portuguese. Postponing solutions is to increase difficulties with existing difficulties, and that is not a responsible way of being in politics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u148	Also for an intervention, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I leave some final notes on this debate. throughout the Legislature, the Socialist Party, within the current parliamentary majority, began a change of the social and economic model that was developed and that was legacy to us by the previous government. We have thus removed the risks that the right has left on employment and, therefore, on the public social security system. The cement of this majority has been precisely the recovery of income and credibility, assuming that the State has even to fulfil all its obligations, including, of course, those with its workers and pensioners. Therefore, over the last few years it has been necessary to remove several risks, passing social security from a kind of era of inevitability to an era of options. And what were these options that removed the risks over the system? First of all, more work. More employment, because, without quality jobs and without jobs in quantity, we have an increased risk on the social security system. Without well-paid employment, pressures on the social security system are increasing. This was the case with the high level of unemployment in previous governance and emigration, as well as with the economic environment hostile to the creation of more employment. They promoted an internal shock, promoted wage devaluation and, with this, we had an increase in expenditure of EUR 915 million in pensions and a breakdown in contributions of more than EUR 1, 2 billion. That risk is far away today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u150	Secondly, the risk of concentrating the sources to which the Stabilisation Fund is exposed. He has never been as concentrated as in the previous government and we have already ensured the diversification of the sources for greater robustness of the system. This second risk is remote today. A third risk clearly results from the breakdown of trust. the breach of contractual trust with pensioners, with the unacceptable cuts of pensions that the previous government made to many pensioners, endangering the social contract of social security and its credibility in the country. by deciding to cut pensions already allocated, the former Government insisted on breach of a trust agreement with hundreds of thousands of pensioners and, in fact, attacked the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic. This risk is also remote today, but it was not until recently. We still remember the cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions, which the right had foreseen in the CFP ( Stability and Growth Programme ) that it delivered in 2016, in Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] It is true, Mrs Deputy, see Table 2.7, on page 42 of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019. A fourth and final risk, which we have already removed, and most importantly, is the ideological risk of those who do not believe in public and universal social security and therefore want to hand it over to private funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u151	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u152	The PSD and CDS did not hide it and defended the progressive privatization of the system, with the introduction of a ceiling that was in the Electoral Programme, which was in the Government Programme and was even in the deceased Guide for State Reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u154	under a false freedom of choice, the right wanted to transform a public, universal and intergenerational system into a kind of individual savings account, i.e. a system for the rich and a system for the poor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have shown that it is possible to do better and that it is possible to do different. Thus, we stopped what the right had done, with the excessive penalty of all those who reformed in advance, with the recalculation of the sustainability factor and with the increase in the age of reform; the high cuts remained, until we suspended this legislation, complementaryly translating a wider and, necessarily, more complex and demanding revision of the whole system. We have done so with concrete political decisions: correction of the calculation formula; an extraordinary first increase in pensions; a second extraordinary increase in pensions; an improved calculation formula which, in addition to everything else, has caused a real increase in the value of pensions; a revision of the model of the long-term careers and thus also the fight against child labour; the flexibility of the retirement age. This year, we have an increase in pension expenditure by political decision, by political option, which amounts to about EUR 290 million, compared with an increase of 180 million throughout the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the context of the commitments we have made for the change in social security, for a new model in social security, we have great pride in the way we have been going since 2015 : we have updated the social minimums; we have made an extraordinary increase in the family allowance; we have established a new contribution and performance regime for independent workers; we have for the first time put the formula of calculation in operation; we have corrected the updating of pensions — up to two IAS(indicating social support) pensions there is today the guarantee of updating pensions and, whenever the economy grows above 2 %, there is also a real increase; we have made two extraordinary increases in pensions; we have introduced the regime of the very long-term contribution careers; we have launched the social benefit for inclusion; we have established the end of the requalification regime, ensuring resources for good public services in social security; we have extended the long-term unemployment protection measure; we have introduced the model of the long-term allocation of the IRC funds; we have launched the most, the use of the added value, the value of the value of the use of the use of these people. Only between 2013 and 2015 did the previous government make an extraordinary cumulative transfer of more than 3500 million euros and we ended it — zero! — while our pension expenditure will reach only EUR 850 million this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have done and done all of this with the guarantee of the integrity of the public pension system, of the public social security system, because the worst we could do was to put spending on pensions growing more than contributions. We are in the negotiating process within the majority and we do not accelerate any debate, nor do we isolate any contribution to the objectives we propose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also do not open today the debate on the State Budget for 2019. We have made a long way in which we can be accused of a lot of things, but never of immobilising and certainly never of lack of contributions to the necessary convergences within the present majority. Let us therefore continue this course. We know what we want and what we are doing to achieve our goals in social security: we will improve social protection and improve sustainability, ensuring the credibility of the whole system and ensuring that we want to continue to ensure that what we pay today we will pay from here to 5, 10, 15, 20 years. It is that if we lose the battle of sustainability in structural expenditure, then we will certainly lose the battle of public social security and open the door to the old aspirations of the right, which we reject and fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I reiterate that, in scrupulously respecting the agreements that have allowed this majority, which give it coherence and guarantee stability, we will not follow this bill. And now we cannot also understand the call for temporary majority to be formed with those who oppose everything that the spirit of this government represents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u155	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is obviously a big difference between today's discussion and the discussion that took place for four years between 2011 and 2015. [[There, there! And very big!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u157	When we used to talk about cuts, retrocessions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u158	To save the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u159	... questioned the sustainability of social security and the rights acquired by pensioners, who saw their pensions cut, and when there were threats of cuts of more than 600 million in pensions, today there is a discussion on the replacement of rights and the effectiveness of that replacement not only in the living conditions of those who have their rights back, and even on the effectiveness of these measures for the recovery of the economy, the economic situation in Portugal and the recovery of the situation of social security. Today we discuss advances and not setbacks, as discussed four years ago. This difference is only possible because the Portuguese have fought against the policy of aggravating the exploitation and impoverishment carried out by the PSD and the CDS, because it was possible to remove the PSD and CDS from the Government and because, in a framework where the minority government of the PS is conditioned by the Assembly of the Republic and, in particular, by the positions and proposals presented by the CFP, of course, also in relation to this matter of long careers, it has already been possible to make progress. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this point is important, because for the CFP it is increasingly clear that the result that has given the replacement of rights and incomes can only point to a conclusion, which is that this path must be deepened. It has to go further in the replacement of rights and incomes, not only because this corresponds to very important elements of social justice, but also because, from the economic point of view of the country, this has undeniable results. When we look at budgetary executions such as the one in 2017 and realize that there is budgetary availability that results precisely from the positive impact of this recovery of rights and income, the answer cannot be to channel this budget availability to reduce the deficit, it must be to channel this increased budget availability to respond to the country's problems and to achieve the positive measures that need to be taken, in particular for the progress that must be made in restoring social rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's Government's hesitations have no solution on proposals which are more backward than the commitments which the Government itself has already made. And the delays of the Socialist Party's Government cannot have as a solution proposals that point to further delays and, above all, greater or equal delays in respect of those which the Government presents. The proposal which the Left Block brings to us today raises doubts, which, moreover, we have already put in the request for clarification and the intervention we have made. The proposal from the Left Block is more backward than the commitment which the Government has already made, because it included the introduction of measures for the identification of the personal age of the reform, which are very important, cross-border with those that have already been taken and with the others who have to be and which are not little. The solution that the Left Block presents to us, of course, is a law of the Assembly of the Republic, and so that it does not become unconstitutional... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u160	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. He therefore said that as a law passed by the Assembly of the Republic, he needed to take into account the rules of entry into force and thus would push for the next State budget and for the year 2019 a solution which, by virtue of the decree of the Government, could and should be taken immediately, as was also the result of the government's commitments. To conclude, Mr President, I would just like to say the following: the CFP proposals have not been under discussion today, because the Left Block has taken the option, which is legitimate to any parliamentary group, of having only its draft under discussion in power agenda. But the CFP proposals will be discussed, because they do not seek to replace those of the government and the commitments that the government has made. The proposals presented by the CFP to eliminate the sustainability factor, to ensure the possibility of reform without penalty...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u162	I ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u163	... at the end of 40 years of discounts, taking into account specific solutions for the long-term unemployed, fixing the retirement age in the 65 years and also eliminating the cuts that have already been reformed with these penalties are structural proposals that go far beyond the commitments which the Socialist Party Government has made and which, therefore, will have to be considered in the discussions we need to do and in those which, beyond the options of the Government, must continue to be made to respond to those who have begun too early to work and who have the right to retire without penalties. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter the phase of the closure of this debate. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we brought here today is of the greatest importance and the choice could, of course, have been different. It can always be different. The CFP criticises the Left Block for bringing the debate to the Government's proposal — with a reading, even mistaken of the proposal which the Government has made — and therefore brought its positions of principle. We know, as the Government knows, that its proposals are doomed to be defeated and that it departs from the immobilism only to remain by the statement. We choose to do different. We take our negotiations seriously and never make an interpretation of the words that are spoken to us on the basis of any youth enthusiasm. We think when they tell us and write something, that's to be taken seriously. We know that we have 19 Members in 230, we know that we have made agreements with the Socialist Party for the formation of a parliamentary majority and for the feasibility of a government and we take seriously the negotiation made. And we know that the dynamics now used to say that the given word should not be honored is just another way of tearing down the documents that have been written, and that we do not accept. Some say: "Well, but the Left Block can't do anything, it's government hostage!" They accuse us of this every day, in particular PSD and CDS. But when we say that we have marked this schedule because we are not government hostages it is the PSD and the CDS that function as the Pretorian Guard of Minister Mário Centeno. It is the PSD and the CDS that give the hand to the PS! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u166	That's all I needed! Not us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u167	About that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you very simply: not all of them are Centeno! Don't be! Pensioners and pensioners need to have a decent life ahead of them. For this, access to decent reform is essential, and that is what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u169	There are two charges that have been made to us both by the PS, strangely, both by the PSD and the CDS, not so strangely because they don't know the means of negotiation. however, I would like to remove all doubts. I find it strange when the PS asks us how much this measure costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u170	I think so too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u171	They have the same document that we have and which was delivered by the government at meetings, where it is said to be taxed: it costs EUR 139 million and will reach 31,655 pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u172	It's not to take it seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u173	I hope you have read this document, because if you read it, you know that this was the Government's proposal not for April 2018, but for January 2018! That was the Government's proposal. So by clarifying the idea of how much it costs, we answer the question as to whether this measure is feasible in this State budget: this measure is feasible! It is feasible because the Minister said, and it is factual, that there is an increase of EUR 833 million in social security contributions in 2018 ; there is an additional IMI (municipal property tax) which will take EUR 50 million to social security funds; and VAT ( value added tax) in 2018 will generate more EUR 27 million in revenue. In addition, and due to an amendment which the Left Block has been able to adopt in the last State budget on the profits of companies, there are more than 70 million euros to reach the social security funds. Is there money? There's money, yes sir! There is a lack of political courage to respond to those who cry out for dignity, after a life of work — I repeat, after a life of work! It is in the name of this dignity that we shall take this diploma to the vote. We do not leave to others what we have to do and that is our responsibility. We have told everyone and all those who send letters to us, who speak with us, who have voted in us, or who have voted in other parties, responding to the demand for justice that they make us, that at all times we do not cease to use all the instruments available to ensure that justice is done to them. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I'd like to end up with just one idea. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will rise shortly to vote, and too often this House is criticized for being hostage to any government. Now I ask everyone: are they hostages of this government or will they vote in conscience to defend pensioners? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u175	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u176	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u177	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u178	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to have the document delivered by the Government in the social consultation last year, where reference is made to the mechanisms for reducing the normal retirement age to be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u179	The Bureau will distribute that document, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u181	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u182	Mr President, I would just like to stress, at the moment, that the references which Mr Soeiro has made — partially, it is true, because he has not read the whole document — and which are important for this debate of the document distributed by the Government to the Left Block in the negotiating place, should be highlighted, indicating that our proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u183	Mr, you are not making an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u184	...is exactly what was mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u185	This is an issue which has to do with relations between the various parliamentary groups and which the Bureau does not know. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the diploma you have been discussing, Mr Duarte Pacheco will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1496 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the immediate release of funds for the project of the pediatric unit of Hospital de S. João ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-11.u187	Thank you, sir. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 205 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Cristovão Norte and Mr Margarida Mano, from the PSD, performing 207 Members, so we have voting quorum. Let us therefore proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 822 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concretization of the second phase of the revision of the reform scheme in advance of flexibility by eliminating double penalty for long-term pensioners ( BE ) to 63 years of age. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we will also vote on a request from the CFP, which has been discussed today at the Leaders'Conference and supported by all banks, to request the waiver of the deadline for claim against inaccuracies provided for in Article 157. the Rules of Procedure, Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018, of 7 March, within the framework of parliamentary assessments n. 56 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 57 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), 58 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 60 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have a plenary session at 3 p.m.. the next item will be a debate within the framework of a legislative agenda of the PS Parliamentary Group on the economy of the sea and the maritime-port sector. Our work is being completed. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
