ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, the next item is the debate on draft resolution No 1808 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. To open the debate and present the initiative, Mr Francisco Lopes of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The overall increase in wages is essential for workers and for the future of the country. The increase in national minimum wage is indispensable for a more fair distribution of wealth, improved living conditions, increased future value of retirement pensions and contributed to economic development, job creation, increased national incorporation in production and services, increased funding for social security. Low wages and unfair distribution of national income are of the most serious problems Portugal faces. They are a problem for workers who earn low wages, a national minimum wage that is not enough to get out of poverty. They are a problem for future reform, because workers have very low pensions, which prolong and exacerbate poverty. They are a problem for the country, which does not develop, which does not raise its productive profile, which continues to train workers and sees them going abroad. We do not devalue the increase in the national minimum wage which has been verified, which is indissociable from the struggle of workers and the action of the CFP, an increase that contrasts with the freezing of several years, but an increase still insufficient, as insufficient is the value of 600 € which the Government refers to for the next year, the application of which should have been made long ago. The PCP proposal for an extraordinary increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € from January 2019, today under discussion, has a huge scope for workers and for the development of the country. It is necessary and possible to do so. The evolution of the national situation has defeated the the thesis that the low wages, cuts, the attack on rights would be the way to the country. The cuts meant impoverishment, economic recession, unemployment and mass emigration, but the elimination of cuts, the replacement of wages, pensions and rights, the progress made, although limited, meant reducing poverty and improving living conditions and were the most powerful stimulus for economic growth, job creation and reducing unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u4	The path to the development of the country is therefore clear; but still, the campaign continues. The PSD and CDS are engaged in the defence of exploitation, devalued labour and workers and low wages, which lead workers to poverty and the country behind bars. Is that a PS? The PS attaches itself to PSD and CDS, resists the increase in minimum wage, conditions the increase in wages, whether for public administration or for private sector workers, as it is evident in its intention to maintain serious standards of labour law, such as the expiry of collective bargaining and the failure to apply the principle of treatment more favourable to the worker. It must be said that it will not be measures on the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) that will bring back those who have been pushed out of the country for economic reasons. There is a need for a general increase in wages. It is necessary to restore purchasing power and, at the same time, to respond to new needs that did not exist in the past. And there is also the question of housing price: a minimum wage of 600 € — 534 € net — is a value that, in vast areas of the metropolitan areas, does not afford to rent a house and, in some areas, does not even offer to rent a room.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u6	The 650 € do not solve this problem but help, and they are a clear and indispensable sign of the way that Portugal needs. The extraordinary increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € is not unrealistic, it allows to improve living conditions and cope with the situation of workers who are impoverished. The 650 € mean, objectively, that each worker would take home 578 € per month. We stress that the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € dynamizes the internal market, values productive activities and services. The increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € allows to extend social security revenues, contributing to its financial strength and to the increase in social benefits. The increase in the national minimum wage to 650 € will increase social security revenues by more than 260 million per year. There is no reason to justify that the national minimum wage is not set at this value next January. Only the condemnable insistence on exploitation, low wages and poverty can be invoked to resist its realization. It should also be noted that wages are not a gift, workers produce daily, weekly and, at the end of the month, receive only a part, so often a small part, of the wealth they produce. Work and workers must be valued, but there is still a situation in which those who speculate in the stock market or in other areas earn millions and those who produce wealth have unrealistic wages. Speculation is valued and work is devalued when it is necessary to penalise speculation and value work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u8	This is the sense of patriotic and left-wing politics that the PCP plays and Portugal needs. This is a requirement, a fight we are fighting and will work with all our strength, for workers' rights and living conditions, for the future of the country. The creation of the national minimum wage, in this memorable May 1974, entered the path of progress which April opened. Today, almost four and a half decades later, there is the great challenge in our country to make a new humanist leap and progress. We need to move forward and not move back. We then move forward to the valuation of work and workers, to the general increase of wages, to the 650 € of national minimum wage in January 2019. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u9	Mr Francisco Lopes, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Mr. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u10	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u11	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Francisco Lopes, the CDS recognizes the importance of the minimum wage for many Portuguese families. in fact, following these three years of governance, it seems that families are increasingly in need of this minimum wage. The CDS recognises and considers that, if there is any matter that should be discussed in social consultation, it is exactly the value of the minimum wage. I recall that it was in social consultation that the minimum wage was increased and that it was also in social consultation that the CDS and PSD thawed the minimum wage that the PS had frozen in 2006. It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u14	On the other hand, it is also in social consultation that the main stakeholders are represented, which are the workers, and also the employers, who are, in fact, the ones who have to pay the national minimum wage. In social dialogue, besides workers and employers, the Government is also represented, which in this case has the support of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u15	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u16	That is something that the Communist Party seems to completely forget, and that is why this debate, more than a genuine will of the CFP to contribute to the fixing of the minimum wage, seems to be intended only to prove the life of the CFP on this same subject, in fact, in the coming election year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u17	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u18	The CDS will have to vote at noon! Don't forget you're going to have to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u19	Take the initiative, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u20	Yes! The CFP likes to talk about the workers, but, in fact, it has always been against social consultation, which has allowed the minimum wage to increase over these years. And if so, if it was against all the negotiations that allowed the increase in the minimum wage, indeed over the years, the minimum wage has ended up increasing not by the will of the CFP but despite the CFP and, most of the time, against the will of the CFP, as can be concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u22	I recall that the counterparties that were negotiated in the agreement for the increase of the minimum wage in 2017 were denied here in the Assembly by the CFP — not by the CDS, Mr Deputy, it is good to remember! — it was therefore the CFP that did not want that social agreement and that made it impossible for it to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u23	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u24	Now, it says the PCP that wants to increase the minimum wage to 650 €. Mr President, what consequences does the CFP have for the end of the three years in which it has been supporting the government? The question is that if the CFP has not withdrawn any consequences at the end of these three years and if it will not remove any consequences for the future, particularly in the area of the Budget, whose discussion is actually approaching, the only conclusion that can be withdrawn from this debate is that it is intended only to make a plot to deceive workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u25	Isn't the CDS gonna vote at noon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u26	In other words, the CFP wants to appear in the picture of the increase in the minimum wage without contributing absolutely nothing to that same increase, since this will be negotiated in social consultation, in fact, as has already been said by the various political leaders. Tell me, Mr: where does the CFP contribute to the increase in the minimum wage? [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u27	Mr José Rui Cruz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Francisco Lopes, the Government of the Socialist Party programme, approved in this Chamber, proposed the increase of the national minimum wage up to 600 € in 2019. The planned and planned course has been implemented is as follows: 530 € in 2016, 557 € in 2017, 580 € in 2018 and 600 € in 2019. This progressiveity in the increase in the minimum wage represents, in practical terms, an increase of €95 in 2019 compared to the beginning of the Legislation, i.e. an increase of approximately 20 %. It should be noted that this is the largest absolute increase recorded in almost two decades and that it was with the previous Government, PSD / CDS, that the minimum wage was frozen, in particular in 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u29	What! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u30	Under the cover of the troika's intervention, for absolutely ideological reasons — it is worth recalling Mr António Carlos Monteiro —,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... the former government went beyond the troika, contrary to the positions of the social partners, not only the trade unions, but also the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal), which considered the increase in the minimum wage essential to the national economy. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Only at the end of 2014 is that the previous government has increased the minimum wage, requiring four years to increase it only €20, to €505, justifying itself with the negative impacts on the economy and businesses and with the impositions of the adjustment programme. It should be noted that at no time the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2011 provided for the freezing of the national minimum wage. [[P. Wanda Guimarães.]] [[Rice and protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] The Government of the Socialist Party has shown precisely the opposite of what the PSD and the CDS have made the Portuguese people believe during their governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u31	Sad speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u32	It is possible to improve the income of families, it is possible to grow the economy and make businesses more competitive and, nevertheless, to increase the national minimum wage every year. The proposal for the increase in the minimum wage presented by PS in the Government Programme in 2015 was very clear: to increase progressively to 600 € in 2019. But it was also clear that there is a planned programme based on serious growth forecasts and duly contextualized. The PS understands that it is performing structural improvements that can maintain the growth forecast of the minimum wage to 600 € in 2019. The PS also believes that companies need stability and predictability in order to be able to draw up their economic growth plans and monitor this progressive increase and need to anticipate their tax burden and the economic return on their investments. The Government has supported companies in their growth efforts, whether through tax or through investment support, and the response of the social partners in partnership gives the government the confidence needed to continue. Will the CFP therefore agree that the PS Government is fulfilling what it has committed and that we should also value social consultation? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u33	In reply, Mr Francisco Lopes of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u34	Mr. President, Mr. José Carlos Monteiro... [[Antonio Carlos Monteiro!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u35	I apologize, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, the questions he raises are typical of what is the positioning of the CDS, in order to shoot to the side trying to hide his position of devaluation of work and workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u37	...promoting exploitation and promoting poverty. Let us check this: with regard to the action of the CDS and the PSD in previous governments, particularly in the Government between 2011 and 2015, what happened? A line of freezing of the minimum wage to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u38	Exactly! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u39	More: it is important to say here, because the honourable Member, perhaps, is forgotten, but I remember - that on March 7, 2013 I repeat, March 7, 2013, the 15th day of debate with the Prime Minister in the Assembly of the Republic, when the minimum wage was €485, was made the statement that, if possible, the national minimum wage was to decrease! This is the position of the CDS and PSD! It is there, 'if possible'! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u40	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u41	So that's your always position. The CFP brings here an essential question, which is the fact that 1 251 000 workers earn the minimum wage or below. Therefore, it is necessary to respond to these workers and the increase in the national minimum wage we propose for 650 € is a path of progress, a humanist path, it is necessary for workers to fight poverty, but it is also a stimulus to economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u43	It's a farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u44	We know that the CDS and PSD defend the strategy of impoverishment as the idea of the country's future. The reality of the country has denied that. Progress needs to be made, improved rights, improved wages, improved income. That is where economic development, job creation and the development of the country are possible. The 650 € we propose are inserted in this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u45	Are you serious? Oh, my God! And what is the consequence?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u46	And I say more to you, Mr President: for small and medium-sized enterprises, purchasing power is very important, the internal market is very important, and the more you favour the internal market, the more likely small and medium-sized enterprises are. Less wages and less rights means recession and unemployment; more wages and more rights means economic development and job creation. That is a lesson from the last few years in our country. [[PCP applause.]] And on the question of social consultation, Mr President — and I also see a convergence between the PS and the CDS —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u47	You're government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u48	... it is good to remember that if we were waiting for any social concertation it had not been established the national minimum wage in 1974, and it is not by chance that the Constitution determines it. [[Protests by PSD MPs Clara Marques Mendes and Joana Barata Lopes.]] And why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because the right of veto cannot be given to employers' confederations in relation to workers' rights. And that is what they want to do, recalling social consultation to try to give the right of veto to employers' confederations. But the Constitution of the Republic is clear: whoever has the power to decide on the national minimum wage is the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u49	Your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u50	That is why we are here discussing the matter for the government to be asked. It is the government that has to assume this responsibility and, as the workers fight in this regard, we bring this issue here to the Assembly of the Republic, so that it does not go next to it. It is also important to stress, with regard to what the PS Member here has put to us, that the PS, as a party that assumes the government, must also assume responsibility for a different attitude on the question of wages and the rights of workers. Do not take refuge in the question of social consultation, assume your responsibilities! 650 € means 578 € that workers take home. It is known that this is not so much, but this possibility and the prospect of the future is not denied. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u51	Two more Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. To that end, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the Portuguese Communist Party on bringing back the issue of the increase in the national minimum wage. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that it may not be important for you, but I would like to say that I admire the consistency of what the English Communist Party says.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u53	It's true! We're consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u54	I must say, Mr Francisco Lopes, at the risk of making an extensive interpretation, that even for those who do not fully agree with the communist ideology that Mr Lopes defends — we will round up in those of some 91% of the Portuguese who did not vote in the Portuguese Communist Party in the last legislations — all of them, in some way, admire this coherence because, in fact, the Portuguese Communist Party has a logic of consistency in repetition. Again we have a draft resolution with the requirements on the national minimum wage on the eve of the State budget. It is consistent, of course, because it doesn't matter how sustainability is thought here too. this is consistent because the mechanism of social consultation, which we have already talked about here, where the social dialogue between trade unions and employers' confederations is precisely not included in the dialogue of the CFP itself, which is strange in a party which so much says it is on the side of workers and trade unions and which, after that, never refers to the importance of social consultation. In fact, it diminishes its importance and that of trade unions. But there too the CFP has been consistent. The clear question is what happens when we confront this repetition consistent with seriousness and credibility, which is how it says: what happens to what we say when we have the power to move from words to acts, Mr President? Oh, my God! It is that they have now turned the page, an expression that they so much like to use, and such almost — we round it up — of 9 % of the electorate who voted in the CFP became decisive, i.e. there is only government and there is only State budget if the CFP wants to be there. Therefore, effectively discussing the draft resolution presented by the CFP here today, the PSD actually wants to see a set of doubts clarified. That is why, by taking on this same draft resolution, in which the honourable Members are voting. Members of the CFP say that — and I quote — "they make clear the disastrous consequences of decades of right-wing politics and the limitations on national sovereignty", I ask: When it comes to right-wing policies and their disastrous consequences, is it referring to the Socialist Party, which is its partner in government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u55	Yes, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u56	It's just... see! — it was the Socialist Party that, on the eve of elections, increased everything by 2010 to freeze the national minimum wage. [[PSD applause.]] After taking the country to bankruptcy, he entered the Memorandum of Understanding on page 23 and, Mr President, I have already seen that you are wrong, but I can lend it — that it was not allowed to increase the national minimum wage until it changed and overcome the Assistance Programme, which, curiously, we agree that it has had disastrous consequences for the country. But it was precisely the Government of the Democratic Social Party and the CDS that delivered the country from these disastrous consequences and — see, Mr President! — increased the national minimum wage, ending with the freezing that the Socialist Party, your partner of government, had set up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u58	Returning to your draft resolution, honourable Member, which says that « The result of the legislative elections of 4 October 2015 has translated a clear condemnation of the policy of exploitation and attack on wages and rights, of impoverishment promoted by the previous PSD Government / CDS »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u60	... I would like to reply to the following: this policy you referred to was evaluated in elections, you had an electoral programme evaluated in elections and this electoral programme had more votes than any of the electoral programmes that are represented in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] So, Mr President, would you like me to clarify the following: voting on the PCP is the same thing as voting on the Left Block or the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u61	Also!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u62	It's just, look, you're telling us, therefore, that your patriotic and left-wing policy is the same as your government partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u63	Also!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u64	...the same Socialist Party that frozen the national minimum wage! It is that if what you say is that it was the right-wing policy that got defeated and if this programme that is here had more votes from the Portuguese than any of them, so that they represent that will that which Mr says is because the difference between them does not exist. So you're saying it's the same thing to vote in the Portuguese Communist Party than to vote in the Socialist Party or in the Left Block? Oh, my God! Finally, the honourable Member said here that for the CFP the increase in national minimum wage is a requirement, it is imperative. In fact, yesterday Mrs Rita Rato said that this draft resolution serves to see who is on the side of the exploitation of work, the fight against poverty and the dynamization of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u65	That's where the PSD won't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u66	Therefore, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask you — you have two hypotheses: this debate was a scene to appear in the newspapers and the CFP can come to say « we beat for workers and for the increase in the minimum wage»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u68	... or, in fact, when the State budget comes and not to devote the 650 € minimum national wage, is it imperative that you vote against it? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u69	The minimum wage does not come in the State budget! [[PCP protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u70	To request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u71	The minimum wage does not come in the State budget! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u72	I'm asking the ladies. Members to finish the parts so that Mr José Soeiro can make his speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u73	Mr President, I believe that this was caused by the confusion between the State budget and the fixing of the national minimum wage for the private sector. Anyway, it's a misinformation. [[PSD protests.]] But I wanted to ask the CFP because, for the Left Block, raising the minimum wage is really a fundamental measure of economic and social justice, particularly in a country with so low wages and so many wage inequalities. The Left Block has been beaten by this increase in the minimum wage and by the political solution that guarantees it. in the agreement we made with the Socialist Party in 2015, we set a minimum level of 20% for this increase throughout the legislature and this concrete commitment opened the door to the increase of the minimum wage in an austerity Europe, where this debate seemed to be banned, and in a context where the Socialist Party had no effective commitment to increase the minimum wage in its programme. Therefore, this agreement that we have made was an essential guarantee against all kinds of internal and external pressures from those opposed to the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u75	Today, it seems that the increase in the minimum wage is a consensual measure in this Parliament, and there are even those who say that it is the merit of social consultation or of employers, which is totally false! The increase in the minimum wage is fixed by government decree, depending on the parliamentary solution that exists and against the opposition of the employers' confederations that have been there. In fact, we do not forget that it was not just the employers' confederations, but also the European institutions and the right-wing ones who manifested themselves against the increase in the minimum wage. They manifested themselves against when it increased to 530 €, manifested themselves against when it increased to 557 €, manifested themselves against when it increased to 580 €! For the PSD, for employers, for European institutions, the increase in the minimum wage was always an exaggeration. And, curiously, at the same time as their representatives considered it to be an exaggeration, large companies have increased the wages of managers by 40 % in recent years. We have already brought examples here, but we have repeated them: in recent years, managers' salaries have increased by 40 % and in a company such as Pinko Doce, in which the minimum wage is abundant, a worker in a box of a supermarket works 345 years to earn the same as the manager of the same company.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u76	All right! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u77	If we had taken productivity into account, we would probably be today with the minimum wage around €900, to use the growth argument that was invoked here by the Socialist Party. Besides, 900 € is what has just been announced to Spain. The question I am asking is this: do you believe that companies that produce more wealth today, which increase the wages of their managers by 40 %, are unable to bear an increase in the minimum wage? Of course they are! More, today being the conditions of the country and the economy better than those that existed in 2015, today we are in a position to go beyond what was agreed at that time and to have an increase in the minimum wage that goes beyond 600 €, which was the minimum level from which we are making this discussion. in our opinion, we are in a condition of an increase that goes beyond 600 €, and I believe that we converged with the PCP. It remains to be seen whether the government is converging with us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u78	To reply, Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, it is clear that, due to the evolution of national reality, the increase of the national minimum wage to the 650 €, which we propose, is not only a need for workers who work not having the necessary means to get out of poverty, but also a contribution to the dynamisation of economic activity, for the progress of the country, for creation and employment. It is not just a statement, it is the reality of the last few years in our country that shows this, with all clarity, and defeated the thesis that would always lead us to delay and backwardness. It should also be noted that, over these years—and there is once again the question of social consultation—the social dialogue and the values proposed and established by the Government as a maximum level for preventing the increase in the national minimum wage was used. Once again, it's being checked. It was seen last year, when it was assumed that the 600 € had already been adopted, and once again this discussion was expected for the next year, using the 600 € as a maximum ceiling when another type of response is needed, it is necessary to proceed already to the 650 € of national minimum wage. It is essential that this path be followed. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, I see that three years later she still cannot deal with the political reality of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u80	The gentlemen have written! I just read what you guys wrote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u81	It is still welcome of the horse riding, which they were thinking to continue, of aggravation of exploitation, of poverty, of social retrocession, of the country's sinking, but the Portuguese people created the conditions for that path to be interrupted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u83	... to advance in progress, in the humanist sense of progress, very insufficiently, in a very limited way, but which points out the necessary path for the country and which is the opposite to the one that the PSD and CDS developed when they were in government. It should also be noted that, with regard to the essential questions of workers' rights, options are put here. He spoke — and indeed I congratulate her on the fact that she quoted our draft resolution and in what she said is entirely right — decades of right-wing policy, PS convergence, PSD and CDS convergence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u84	No, no! There doesn't say "PS"! They forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u85	... in successive governments, with very serious consequences in the situation of the country. But there is some change: the PS is in the government, the CFP is not in the government,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u86	... the PS is in the government, I repeat, and the PCP is here with all the initiative, with all the determination. Why? Because it misses no opportunity to improve the living conditions of workers and develop the country. The CFP is here, clearly and decisively, to take this path of progress as far as possible. [[PCP applause.]] You have no doubt. We know what we want and are not conditioned by suicidal strategies of the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u87	I don't understand! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u88	We are available to take, as far as possible, the path of defense, replacement and conquest of rights, but that does not mean that we do not have a political project. We defend an alternative policy that is alternative to PS, PSD and CDS policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u89	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u90	We are in a position that is not confused with a significant part of the positions of the Socialist Party. In fact, you can see who supports PS in difficult times. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]] That is why, in all matters of labour law, we see the old convergence of PSD and CDS with PS. The PS does not have enough votes here come the votes of the MPs and the CDS to ensure these measures of labour law. [[PSD protests.]] But there is an interesting question that will be put: when this draft resolution is to vote, here, in the Assembly of the Republic, just to propose the 650 € national minimum wage, let's see who's going to vote in favour. Therefore, this means that the CDS and PSD are preparing to converge with the PS in the rejection of this project and therefore that explains everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u91	And what is the consequence? What is the consequence?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u92	In everything that is favorable to the interests and rights of workers, we converge with the PS or the Left Block and distance ourselves in everything that is negative to the rights of workers and to the future of the country, which is exactly the opposite of what the PSD and the CDS do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u93	Therefore, it is very clear: voting in the PCP is not the same thing as voting in the PS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u94	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u95	There's only government because of the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u96	... voting in the CFP is to defend the repeal of the serious standards of labour law; voting in the CFP means strengthening the value of work and workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u97	But then they support the PS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u98	It is on this path that we go and have no doubt that, with the Portuguese workers and people, we will eventually be able to take forward the exploitation of workers' work, the general increase in wages, the €650 for the national minimum wage, and more in the future, and at the same time the repeal of these burdensome, unacceptable standards, which continue to be in labour law. It is the humanist sense and the progress we have, why we are debating ourselves and we will continue to debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u99	Are there any consequences? Oh, my God! Consequences!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u100	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national minimum wage is extremely important and has been one of the achievements of the Revolution of Cravos, which has allowed not only an improvement in the quality of life of workers but also a strong element of dynamising economic activity. However, the reality shows, and very clearly, that at present a considerable part of the Portuguese, although employed, lives in poverty, is not enough income to bear the basic costs. This means that having employment is not, in itself, a condition for leaving poverty, because the value of the national minimum wage is still too low to ensure the basic needs of workers and their families. In order to reverse this injustice it is essential to effectively value national labour and minimum wage, which, contrary to what would be desirable and necessary, has, over the years, been devalued by successive governments, which in no way contributes to a cohesive society from a social and economic point of view. This is evidence of the fact that the minimum wage updates do not follow the increase in cost of living or the increase in average income. It should be recalled that the national minimum wage has even been frozen between 2011 and 2014, at which time the previous government has made a small manifestly insufficient increase to respond to the most basic needs of citizens, mainly taking into account the entire scenario of attacks and offensives promoted by the same Government of the PSD and the CDS with regard to income and social and labour rights. It is also worth noting that this increase occurred following an agreement between the executive of that time, the employers'confederations and the UGT, based on a counterparty for the bosses—of course! — a decline in the single social rate, which was known to include the strong opposition of the Greens. On a proposal from the current government, the national minimum wage was set at € 580, in January 2018, but it happens that, despite this increase being beneficial, it is still far from the increase that workers and the country economy need, as, moreover, shows the overall report on wages, prepared by the International Labour Organization and presented in March 2017, which concludes that Portugal was one of the 133 countries analyzed, between the years 1995 and 2014, where the proportion of wages in national income fell. This report, according to which Portugal is one of the most unequal countries, still suggests to each country, as a way to reduce wage inequalities, strengthen labour market regulation, one of the measures being pointed out the increase in the minimum wage, alongside others, in particular the strengthening of collective bargaining. Also the 9th. the Monitoring Report of the Minimum Guaranteed Monthly Remuneration Agreement, drawn up by the Government and presented in July, finds that the Portuguese national minimum wage is one of the lowest in the European Union and the recent increases have not changed its relative position as one of the lowest in the euro area. According to the data in this report, more than 764 000 workers, on behalf of others, take up the national minimum wage and one in every four new jobs created in the first three months of this year pay this remuneration, representing these figures as a worrying reality and promoting social inequalities. Now, our country cannot continue to bet on a low-wage policy, it is imperative to value them and, in particular, the national minimum wage. This is indisputably a way of pursuing a path to combating poverty and attacks on the rights of workers who have been imposed in recent years, especially in the period of the former PSD / CDS-PP government, but it is also a way to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth and to allow the increase in purchasing power and the improvement of the living conditions of workers and their families, which, in turn, will result in the recovery and dynamisation of the economy, domestic demand and, consequently, in the promotion of national production and job creation, which is, in fact, urgent. In view of this reality, the Greens also consider it essential to establish, without hesitation, the value of 650 € for the national minimum wage from January next year, as a way to value workers, their work, their rights, but also to promote social justice and restore the purchasing power that workers have been losing. For all this, we follow the legislative initiative that the Portuguese Communist Party today, and with all the opportunity, has scheduled for debate. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, we vote in favour because it seems to us that we cannot affirm the consistency of the proponents or the justice of this proposal, because the most important is the way of voting their banks. The Greens will do their part! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u102	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the minimum wage was a victory for economic wisdom against the irresponsibility of impoverishment. Yes, the increase in minimum wage is good for workers and is good for the economy, because it contributes to job creation. That was the door that, against the current, we were able to open with agreement that we made in 2015. In fact, just look at what happened in 2016, the year in which the minimum wage rose for the first time: less 68 000 unemployed and more 92 000 jobs than in the previous year. Increasing the minimum wage does not affect the economy or productivity, nor does it destroy employment, as the right one said, then. It benefits workers, benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, because it stimulates the internal demand they depend on. Because we have made this path of recovery of income and reconstruction of the economy, we can now go much further in this path of social justice: the increase of the minimum wage beyond 600 €, which has already been guaranteed in the agreement we made in 2015, it is possible and, indeed, it is no more than a small part of the return to which workers are entitled. As I said earlier, if the minimum wage had been updated every year taking into account inflation and productivity, rather than being frozen as between 2011 and 2014, it would today be around €900, but in addition, with changes to labour legislation promoted by the PSD and the CDS, in 2012, of a single penalty and with one law, an unpublished transfer of wealth of €2,3 billion from workers to employers, to employers. The devaluation of work was achieved by increasing unpaid working time, reducing the price of overtime to half, eliminating compensatory breaks or the values associated with the expiry of contracts. Valuing work is also abrogating these rules. The increase in the minimum wage is, from this point of view, only part of the compensation that is due to the workers and has therefore been withdrawn from their salary for the benefit of the employer's accumulation. We therefore understand that the CGTP proposal for 2019 is more than reasonable, it is sensible, it is fair and it is possible that the government will set the minimum wage increase by 650 €. The problem of small and medium-sized enterprises is not now, and it has never been, wages. in fact, wages represent, on average, 20 % of production costs, against about double — that is the weight — e.g. energy and communications costs. Small and medium-sized enterprises need the domestic consumption resulting from the minimum wage and its increase, which they do not need is an excessive energy bill, a special payment on their own account, which will ultimately end up by decision of this majority, or a credit policy which charges them with interest above what they can pay. Portugal remains a country of scandalous wage inequalities and, to combat them, we need to intervene in many areas. We need a fair taxation that distributes wealth; we need to dynamize collective bargaining, putting an end to the ability of employers to unilaterally expire collective agreements and use this blackmail of expiry to maintain a wage compression policy; we need and we need to define wage leques that determine a maximum proportion between the highest wage and the lowest wage within a company, pulling the lowest wages up and ensuring a less scandalously unfair distribution of the wealth produced by those who work; and we need to define minimum levels that are ambitious. Therefore, fixing the minimum wage above 600 € is fair, it is possible and must be done. Portugal, the country in which the managers of the companies of the PSI-20 ( Portuguese Stock Index) earn EUR 1 million per year on average, i.e. more than €70 000 per month of pay for their work, is the same country in which, despite the course we have done, we have rates of poor offensive workers around 10%. in our country, in the country where managers' wages are on average 70 000 € per month, we continue to have 1 in 10 workers who, even with a job and with a salary, live below the poverty threshold. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard in this debate, and in other debates on this subject, all the excuses, which today have been mobilized to avoid the increase in the minimum wage. As at other times, reality has not given any reason to these arguments and excuses. Therefore, we are in a position to do justice and to deepen the path of valuing work and increasing the minimum wage, which was the mark of this legislature and the commitment it has given it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u104	at this time, the Bureau does not register inscriptions and there are several parliamentary groups that have not yet intervened. [[Pause.]] Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here today is not just surreal because the parties that make up the so-called'management' have never had a worthy concern in political coherence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u107	In fact, see the Portuguese Communist Party presenting a draft resolution in which it recommends to a Government, which has supported three years ago, the increase in the national minimum wage is well the mark of the lack of political decor which characterizes the parties that form the current parliamentary and governmental majority. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Of course, because three years have passed the State budgets of the Socialist Party and, within a few weeks, they will approve the room, having never made these approvals dependent on the now propagated increase in the national minimum wage. Then because they opted for the manoeuvre to present a simple recommendation to the Government, that the Government would only comply if it so understood. Finally, and more importantly, because it sends the truth that it is said that if the so-called'management' were what their appearances have been all about since the beginning, this debate, which took place three years after the beginning of the current government, would simply not be necessary and we would not be here discussing what had been done long ago. Therefore, the discussion of this draft resolution is also the confession of guilt and the assumption of hypocrisy, which is nothing other than a majority party accusing the government that supports doing the opposite of what the same party says to defend. Having said this, let us concentrate on the content of the explanatory statement of the draft resolution that the Communist Party brings us today. What do you say to the country the Communist Party, an impenitent supporter of the socialist government of Antonio Costa? Oh, my God! You're going to say that—it's over! — the number of workers receiving the national minimum wage doubled between 2016 and 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u108	Ah! Don't tell me! Duplicate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u109	... reality that, and I quote, « proves that low wages continue to be a political option and a prevailing reality in the country ». I read PCP words. In other words, the CFP supports a government that claims that it has doubled the number of workers with national minimum wages. This is just one of many examples that could be given about the insanitary contradictions that are fatty among the partners of the so-called'management' and that, not outside its seat of power, they had long condemned it. Otherwise, let us see: the CFP supports the government but at the same time says that the country needs « another policy », because, as your Secretary-General Jerónimo de Sousa points out, and I quote - it - "the structural response to the problems of the country is not done with the PS government, nor with its current policy". The CFP supports a government but accuses it of making the deficit, and I quote, « a matter of dictatorship ». The CFP approves the State budgets, while accusing the PS and the Government of not going as the « right direction », « the April direction ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u110	PSD is looking forward to the discussion of the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u111	The CFP supports the Government of the Socialist Party but disagrees with its policies, whether in the area of public finances, whether in the economy, European affairs, health or education, just to mention a few. Duality and political calculus have led the CFP even to the point where, during the first half of the Legislature, the unions and the movements of these users who control to, as the elections approach, encourage labour strikes and social protests against their government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u113	The CFP supports a government that has lowered State investment to levels — it must be recognised — miserable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u115	...at the same time that every year, he makes the comedy to pretend to defend a significant increase in public investment, either in schools, hospitals or even in the railroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u117	It will, moreover, be curious to see how the Portuguese Communist Party will vote the next State Budget, which will enter this House already next week,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u118	Curious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u119	... if public investment does not increase to 4 % or 5 % of GDP, since Mr Paulo Sá, a few months ago, made that requirement. But don't worry, the government and the Socialist Party, because the PCP protest, pretends it doesn't like it, but it will ultimately vote in favour of the State Budget for 2019, like what you did in the last budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u121	The Communist Party, like the Left Block, is bound to the government solution that it has made possible for three years and for which results are as responsible as the Socialist Party. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] From the rescuers of Antonio Costa they passed to their hostages. It is usually what it gives when you sell the convictions, for more in exchange for a simple tools of power. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is not the Communist Party to say that it is not responsible for the degradation of public services or for the disinvestment of the State. The CFP does not say that nothing has to do with the increase in waiting lists in public hospitals, either for consultations or for operations, or with the visible difficulties that go through the public education system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u122	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u123	And there's nothing about the national minimum wage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, an intrinsically enemy party of the private initiative and programmatically—underlining 'programmatically'—defensor of State capitalism, is a party that only conceives everything in the state and nothing outside the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u125	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u126	The PCP, heir to gonçalvism of bad memory, is a defender of all the dictatorships of extreme left that still exist in the world and has missed the time in which it intended to impose a communist regime on the country. We are well aware of the solutions the Communist Party defends, and we also know the social misery that, unfortunately, often brings with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u127	Well remembered! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u128	The demonstration that the CFP continues to be set in its outdated Stalinist tics can, in fact, be easily found in the fact that the draft resolution under discussion today does not contain a single reference to social consultation. [[PSD applause.]] This omission does not constitute a forgetfulness, this omission constitutes, before, directly, a derivation of the political DNA of the PCP. In fact, a party which, as the Journal O Militante states, states : « In Portugal, since it was created in 1984, social dialogue has never been an ambush in support of the exploitation of workers ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u129	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u130	We, PSD, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Reformist and Personalist Party, we have always enjoyed social dialogue in our country and have always believed that this is and remains a privileged space for dialogue and cooperation between the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u132	We therefore argue that the discussion of the increase in the national minimum wage cannot and should not be done on the margins of social consultation and of the social partners, and that an agreement should be sought that confers sustainability on this important and demanding exploitation of workers. The PSD is not, nor has it ever been, against the increase in national minimum wage,... [[PSD applause.]] ... as well as evidenced by the fact that we soon increased in 2014 the troika, which the Socialist Party brought, went out of the country and also, it is recalled, after the Socialist Party had frozen the national minimum wage in 2010 and had negotiated and accepted its freezing with the troika during the years of its presence in our country. It's true! If the minimum wage was frozen a few years in this decade it was because the country experienced an extremely difficult financial, economic and social situation, thanks to the almost bankruptcy situation for which the governments of the Socialist Party contributed significantly. That is why we are in favour of increasing the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u134	But we are in favour of a sustained increase that also considers the increase in national productivity and a negotiated increase that results from the necessary commitments and balances between the legitimate aspirations of workers and the challenges of the world of work. We also believe that the increase in national minimum wage should be calibrated in order to avoid negative effects on employment and on the remuneration of workers in general. In fact, it is good to remember what an investigator, not only an investigator today, but perhaps, from what we know, one of the dearest people, by some geriatric parties, said. I refer to Dr. Mário Centeno, when in 2013 he defended in the book The Work, a Market Vision, which, and I quote, « The existing evidence indicates that there is a negative effect of the increases in the minimum wage in the wage variation of workers who have wages immediately above. Intuitively, the (strong) increases in the minimum wage form a wave that falls on the average wages of the economy, dragging them to smaller increases. After those who lose their jobs as a result of the increase in the minimum wage, these are the workers most affected by their increase. (...) Companies must contain total wage costs and therefore include wage increases for workers who are not directly affected by the new minimum wage’.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u135	Look that reality doesn't show that! Life has shown the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u136	I'm referring again to this investigator...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u137	Mário Centeno is a reactionary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u138	...is today perhaps one of the main members of the current government enthusiastically supported by the Portuguese Communist Party. The Communist Party is, therefore, accustomed to the thinking of the current Minister of Finance and finally realizes that little matters the inconsequential project that brings us today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our view, what should be of concern to the CFP was, as the President of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Dr Fernando Negrão, the quality of employment, an area of greatest importance where the government did not invest what was required. What should concern the CFP was the insufficient economic growth planned for 2019, since without a robust growth of our economy there will never be enough wealth to distribute. Also for all this, the PSD maintains a high political requirement regarding the evolution of the current country government. Despite the efforts of financial consolidation and increased competitiveness that have characterized the previous legislation, the apparent lack of reforms in the last three years maintains Portugal as a country with low qualifications and low employment quality. We believe and defend that the development of our country must increasingly pass by the affirmation of its competitive advantages. To this end, we also support the increase in the qualifications of workers, the value of wages and the considerable improvement in the quality of employment. Only in this way can our country be affirmed within the framework of the most advanced societies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u139	Two Mrs were registered. Members, one from the PCP and the other from the PS, to make requests for clarification to Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, who will answer together. So you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, I would like to say that consistency is the PCP presenting the minimum wage increase to 650 € from January 2019...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u141	More inconsequential than coherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u142	...and the PSD defends wages of misery. Consistency is the PCP defending proposals for social progress and the PSD and the CDS defend proposals for civilizational retrogression. Moreover, it was what they did in the last four years they were in the government. Therefore, it seems to us that the CFP has brought today, as it has done over the last few years, a proposal for the valuation of the national minimum wage. But it is also true, Mr President, that on the fairness and importance of this proposal you said zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u143	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u144	The honourable Member did not say at any time how he would vote on this proposal from the CFP. In fact, he even referred these matters, as the PS had already done, to the biombo and to the veto of employers' confederations in social consultation. All this is very true and is also consistent with that which has been the position of PSD, CDS and PS in relation to this matter. The truth is that in our country, 1% of the population has 25% of the national wealth and about 5% have more than 50% of the national wealth. Now, you don't have to be a dangerous Marxist to conclude that we have a problem with the distribution of wealth. And it only fights the concentration of wealth if it is better distributed. What, then, is the fundamental measure to improve the distribution of wealth, not the general increase in wages and the recovery of the national minimum wage? Oh, my God! This just demonstrates something else, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in his speech, became very clear: over the years, every time social inequalities are worsened, there is a concentration of wealth. The rich get richer and the poor get poorer! That's what we're talking about today. The fight against poverty and the exploitation of the national minimum wage are due to the reasons for social justice, but they also obey the economic reasons, as we have already said. Increasing national minimum wage is a way to better distribute wealth, but it is also a way to boost the internal market, because with increased purchasing power, economic development and the robustness of social security are guaranteed. However, the PSD and the CDS, which, at all times, are very concerned about the birth and sustainability of social security, when it comes to taking effective measures, the value of wages, so that it is possible to ensure the robustness of workers' discounts, do not do so, continue to be consistent and equal to themselves, to defend wages of misery.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u146	from the PCP, we understand today that the opportunity we bring here is essential. The national minimum wage and the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € are of elementary justice. This would mean that workers would take 578 € liquid home, which continues to fall short of what is needed. Therefore, what we find essential is to ask the PSD today whether it will follow the PCP in the proposal for an increase and valuation of the minimum wage for € 650 in January 2019, or whether it will support the PS Government in maintaining the minimum wage below what is necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u147	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Rui Riso, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, we have heard about the issue of interpretation of the minimum wage and what it represents for the PSD. We have heard some comments about the past, we have heard many comments about the present, and I would like, first of all, to ask whether the PSD has changed substantially over the years about the minimum wage. Of all the referrals you made to previous periods, many of them certainly enter in the opinion of the then Prime Minister, which referred to the minimum order, namely as « a measure against unemployment », saying that lowering the minimum wage was « a sensible measure » and that cuts in wages and pensions had to be permanent. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u149	He didn't come down, he increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u150	Outside the government, Steps warns that « the rise of the minimum wage may lead to more unemployment ». We understand the question of minimum wage, specifically the question that, when lower levels are reduced, the pressure they make on the upper levels is increased, as well as mentioned, citing studies on this matter. This is a consequence and, therefore, the interpretation by employers must also be valued, because in terms of qualifications we know there is a strong discrepancy between what has been the increase in qualifications in general and the non-increasing qualifications in particular in certain sectors of activity, particularly at the level of entrepreneurs. There have been many courses for the value of work, but there have been few courses for the appreciation of the entrepreneurship, as is indeed known and often referred to. It is worth a little discussion about this, because of course a more open view will also certainly allow a more open view of what wages represent, what work represents within companies and how this wealth should be distributed. I would like to recall and mention the role of social consultation in increasing the minimum wage and also the fact that social consultation was not heard when there were cuts in wages. Perhaps it was worth it at the time to make this incursion and discuss some of these descents with social consultation. Social consultation is a very important part for our democracy, it is a very important part in the redistribution of wealth, but it does not replace the redistributive role of the State, which concerns only the state and which must be done through taxation, as we know, and is part of our democracy. After all, the real question is this: has the PSD really evolved in relation to the interpretation of the minimum wage? Is the idea that reducing the minimum wage is definitely important to the economy? I would like to refer to this because it tells history and tells the recent results that the rise in the minimum wage has been favourable to the economy and to employment and not favourable to unemployment. That's what I'd like you to talk about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u151	You have the floor to answer, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u152	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, the parliamentary exercise we are doing here today would be unnecessary if the Government that the Portuguese Communist Party supports had accompanied the Communist Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u154	And everything you said almost led me to ask you a question: what has failed in the negotiations with the government on this matter? What's wrong? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u155	Divergence! Difference of opinion! That's why we discussed it here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u156	Is your influence, at the end of three years, not enough to convince the Government of a matter which is almost considered as a priority for the Communist Party? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Rui Riso, as you know, I have a lot of esteem and consideration for you, not only as a Member, but above all acknowledging the positive role you have played in the Portuguese trade union world. I want to tell you the following: the PSD remains consistent on this matter. As I have had the opportunity to point out, the PSD argues that it must be up to the social dialogue to decide on such matters, with the size and importance it has, from the economic and social point of view. He says he was defended—and I think he quoted the previous Prime Minister, although he does not know the reference—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u157	On March 7, 2013!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u158	... probably a lowering of the minimum wage value, but I want to tell you that it was the PSD and the CDS that received the troika delivered by your hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u160	Many of the decisions that our Government has had to make were not decisions that we would like to make; we have done so many times because of the defence of the country's best interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u162	They don't know what that is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u163	But it is also very important for this debate, as much as it does not like it to be repeated, to remember that it was the Socialist Party and its Government who, in 2010 without a troika, frozen the minimum wage. [[Congrats from PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] You made that decision without troika! Moreover, it was you who negotiated with the troika the inclusion in the Memorandum of Understanding of the freezing of the national minimum wage until the troika left. Like it or not, who sent the troika though it was the PSD and the CDS; you called it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u164	There are still remains of the troika in the management!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u165	The next item is Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to start by stressing the importance of this debate for the Socialist Party. The return of income to Portuguese and the consecration of the national minimum wage as instruments to combat poverty have been priorities of this Government, not only in its action and in the measures implemented consistently, over the three years of mandate, but mainly in its political action. It's just that it's undeniable! The situation that has been left to us by the PSD/CDS-PP government of deep social impoverishment and disrespect for living and working conditions, however basic they were, was, in our view, the most serious attack on labour and social rights that there is memory in democratic Portugal. It has also caused a huge flow of emigration, only comparable to the 1960s, hypothesized the future of a generation, the best prepared ever, and the present of thousands of citizens, especially the most vulnerable, the situation to which neither the younger ones have escaped. In fact, according to UNICEF, in the 2015 Children's UNICEF Portuguese Manifesto, there were nearly 3 million Portuguese at risk of poverty, of which 640,000 were children and adolescents. In 2013 about 1 in 4 children lived in aggregates with material deprivation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u167	Are you blaming me for Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u168	We must not forget, and we will not forget, that right now in this mandate, rather than making my own fault and contributing to change the disqualification in which he left us, he always opposed any measure, initiative or action which, directly or indirectly, intended to return income or restore rights. This is how he voted against the rise of the national minimum wage, repeatedly against the programme of regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration, against the replacement of 35 hours, against the new rules of the RSI (social income of insertion) and against the new provisions of the CSI ( solidarity supplement for the elderly ). That is, the right has rejected all opportunities to offer a more dignified life to Portuguese and Portuguese. Everything that has happened in the mandate of this Government contradicts, in fact, the catastrophic forecasts on the right, which have served only as a rascal argument to avoid accompanying the Socialist Party with respect to the replacement and increase of income. This was the case with increases in the national minimum wage, without any national hecatomb, as the right announced. on the contrary, we have reduced unemployment to 2002 levels ( 6, 8 % unemployment rate) and created more than 300 000 new jobs, in its overwhelming majority with permanent linkage. Companies have gained market share and exports have increased. There is a climate of confidence favourable to its sustainable development and to a more dynamic internal market, which has been strengthened and which all benefit: State, companies and workers. Restoring rights and freedoms, returning income and ensuring full exercise of democratic normality has been the reason for this government, which has fulfilled in all areas it has committed itself to. This was the result of the increase in pensions, especially the lowest, with the extraordinary increases that have occurred at this level, with the freezing and progression in the careers of the Public Administration, with the creation of social benefits for the inclusion of people with disabilities, with changes to the family allowance, in particular with the increase, extension and recovery of the 4. the step, eliminating the principle that the children of the wealthiest are worth more than those of the least subscribers, in a deeply elitist and discriminatory view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] It was also with the elimination of the 10 % cut-off of the unemployment allowance at the end of six months, with the creation of an extraordinary measure to support long-term unemployed, with the updating of the disability bonus, with the increase in the amount of the third person assistance allowance, with the rise of the IAS (indicating social support), with the sanctification of a new and beneficial pension scheme for long-term contributions, with the implementation of compensation measures, as is the case with the refund of the overtax — the so-called refund of the overtax! — EUR 660 million. And we could continue to infinity. The Portuguese Communist Party refers in this project to the latest survey of living conditions and performance, carried out by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ). According to this investigation in 2017, there were fewer persons than in 2016 not only in situations of material deprivation, with the rate falling from 19, 5 % to 18 %, but also in situations of severe material deprivation, and this is important, whose rate decreased from 8, 4 % to 6, 9 %. The risk of poverty was also reduced to 18, 3 % — still high — and inequality in income distribution ( Gini coefficient ), which allows us to conclude, without any demagogy, that people today live better in Portugal. However, the amount of the national minimum wage is fundamental to the protection of workers from weaker and less demanding sectors or enterprises, ensuring an irreplaceable function of redistribution to the wage level. The current €580, paid for 14 times, represents an increase of €75 in three years — the largest increase of April post-25. In 2019, we will have, according to the commitment made by the Government, an increase of €600, which will mean an increase of 19 %, i.e. workers covered by the national minimum wage will benefit in four years from an accumulated increase of €95. The data collected, as a result of a new income policy and a greater dynamism of collective bargaining, point to an increase of 4, 2 % of the net average wage and several agreements have signed wages above the national minimum wage. In fact, this explains why the number of workers covered by this salary is decreasing throughout the year. They begin by benefiting from the increase in national minimum wage and subsequent collective bargaining processes guarantee their added values. That is, whatever the amount of the national minimum wage in 2019 will always be a starting amount below which it is not possible to negotiate. This is also the reason why the Government of the Socialist Party has paid particular attention to the dynamisation of collective bargaining, because it recognises that it is essential for a more balanced distribution of income and the guarantee of better living and working conditions. because of the respect this debate deserves us, we must not fail to express the Socialist Party's position without ambiguities: we will not follow this initiative. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u169	What a disappointment for the PCP! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u170	Regardless of the freedom of any parliamentary group to present a draft resolution, we do not ignore the political weight of an initiative like this one, which is presented today, if it is adopted. I would also like to remind you that, if it weren't the PS government, we wouldn't be here having this discussion and, most likely, we would still be in the €555, which the PSD so generously attributed... [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party is consistent with what it has defended throughout its mandate, referring to and stressing repeatedly the importance of the role of social dialogue, stressing that its devaluation only benefits one side. That is why we believe that the national minimum wage should be the subject of analysis and opinion of the social partners, competing, however, with the Government of the Socialist Party, who is in power, who is the government, the final political decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u171	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification, specifically by Mrs Isabel Pires and Mrs Rita Rato. First of all, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u172	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I would like to thank you for your speech because it has touched on some points that seem important to us. It is important to agree, of course, with the importance of raising the minimum wage in improving the living conditions of our population and improving the economic rates. And there was also an increase in employment, although we have to look more and more at the quality of that same job. But, in fact, it is important to highlight the relevance of the minimum wage in our economy over the past three years. And it is important to remember also, it seems to us, the blockades and pressures that existed so that this same climb does not happen. To the right, there came the devil; for the bosses, besides the devil, it would be a disqualification for the companies themselves and, therefore, if this happened, most of them would leave the country. None of this has happened, as it is obvious, on the contrary, but the problem is that social consultation, in this debate, is still being used as a weapon of shooting, from a completely wrong point of view. We recall again that when it came to cutting rights, wages and pensions, social consultation did not serve anything at all. however, when it comes to a debate to reopen rights for citizens, there is already a need to go everything to social dialogue, as if nothing could be done in Parliament, as if Parliament had no responsibility, there was no obligation to answer certain questions. But, following your speech, Mrs Deputies, where she obviously makes the indication of much of what has been done during this term in the field of work, in the area of pensions, in the area of wages, we would like to stress that much is still to be done. The honourable Member knows, we know, and we are still working on it, but one thing needs to be clarified, and that is what this debate is about to do. In 2015, there was no proposal to raise the minimum wage by the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party was convinced that the minimum wage had to be raised in fact. Therefore, what we are talking about right now is a raise of the minimum wage to 600 €, either an increase to 650 € or more, resulting from the pressure of the parties to the left of the Socialist Party, in particular the Left Block, in their written agreement. Thus, it is not worth coming to say here, and trying to rewrite the story, that the Socialist Party was the party that proposed the rise of the minimum wage, because that is not true. What is currently on the table, after the Socialist Party has been defeated, and yet, for the arguments of the need to raise the minimum wage, is the question of when to go further in the rise of that wage. This is because, at the moment, we have the ability to go further on the rise of the minimum wage, since all the data indicate, including by productivity, by inflation, that we should already be in the 900 € minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u173	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u174	I will finish, Mr. President. So the question remains: is the Socialist Party willing, or is it not, to go further and to meet the needs of workers and workers? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u175	For clarifications, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the first question I would like to ask you, very frankly, is the following: does the honourable Member consider that 650 € per month to live, is it a lot? Does the honourable Member consider that 578 euros liquid is unrealistic? Does the honourable Member consider that the €650 proposal, in a country where one third of the workers take the minimum wage or below it, is unrealistic or is it a necessity, and is it of the greatest fairness? Oh, my God! from PCP, there is no doubt: 650 €, from January 2019, not only is it fair as is necessary, not only is it fair in the life of each as is essential for the development of the country. We cannot continue to bet on a model based on low wages! For example, in the tourism sector, which has had very significant profits, 42 % of workers earn the national minimum wage! Do you have the courage to say that companies can't pay more than this? Oh, my God! That's not true! It is urgent to ensure the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € already from January 2019, for the dignity of each person's life but also for growth and for the dynamisation of the economy. Madam Member, I would like to say the following: the PS cannot continue to apologize and hide behind the social consultation. This is an essential political decision for this Parliament. at noon, it is not the social concert that will vote, it is the 230 Members who sit on each of these chairs and it will be up to each one to understand whether it is urgent and necessary to increase the national minimum wage to 650 €, from January 2019, or whether you continue to bet on a model of low wages. The 15 Members of the CFP know which side they will be on: the workers' side, the defence of their rights and the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u177	In reply, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u178	Mr President, I thank Mrs Isabel Pires and Mrs Rita Rato for the questions that have raised me and that will allow for further clarification. Starting with the role of social consultation, which would give rise to a much wider debate, I would say now that the social consultation, in the year that Mrs Deputy mentioned, served to ensure that the workers did not have a working time longer than half an hour a day and also served to prevent the complete release of redundancies, as envisaged in the Memorandum of Understanding proposal. I know that these things of politics often fall in love with us, which is good, but they must not fall in love with us beyond the truth. It is that the minimum wage was included in the Government of the Socialist Party Programme and the agreement with the Left Block was an increase of the national minimum wage, phased out, for the 600 €, in 2019. on this path, I also take advantage of replying to Mrs Rita Rato, telling her that there is no question of what I stand for or what I understand; it is at stake — and I take it! — what is the policy of the Socialist Party and the measures of the Socialist Party. So this isn't personal, nor am I the one in charge. By now, I must tell you that it is true that I believe that 650 € is not an excessive amount, but I also believe that companies are not homogeneous and, therefore, more than we want to "take a step beyond the leg", we must realize what could be the consequences for the Portuguese social fabric. We are completely brotherhoodd, if you want — and I do not withdraw the expression — with the concerns of the Communist Party, what we have is another way. And on this path, I have no doubt that it is not the decision of Parliament. Indeed, and as it is enshrined, the national minimum wage must be discussed in social consultation, the partners should be heard - that is what must be done - and then obviously the decision is not of Party A or Party B, the decision is of the Government of Portugal, which is now of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u179	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The minimum wage is an important tool for combating poverty and, unfortunately, is a key contribution to a significant number of Portuguese families. It is in these families that we should consider when discussing the increase in the minimum wage and it is first of all due to respect for its circumstances of greater vulnerability that requires seriousness and responsibility. No, a debate on the increase in the minimum wage cannot be a parliamentary or media number. It cannot, under any circumstances, represent a biased use, any instrumentalization of the suffering, vulnerability, of the poverty we are aiming at in this debate. A debate on this subject requires seriousness and responsibility. Seriously: it is true that what we have seen is being said, and in this chapter the CFP's speech does not meet the minimums.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u182	It says the PCP : « The increase in the minimum wage breaks with the policy on the right ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the Government of the PS of Eng. José Socrates that frozen the minimum wage and it was the previous government, the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, who took it off.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u183	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u184	Says the PCP : « The increase to 650 € is a PCP requirement ». No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a requirement, it's not, nor has it. The CFP did not depend on 2015 and continues to do not depend on support for the Government of this increase in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u185	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u186	It's nothing like that! Where is that written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u187	What was agreed with some extreme-left parties supporting this government was €600. That is why, for this value, the Portuguese Communist Party has beaten itself and was from this kick-off that it has made and makes it depend on the agreement with the Government of the Socialist Party. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative of the CFP conceals an embarrassment. A embarrassment that makes it a shame not only the Marxist cartilage as the whole history of Portuguese communism. [[PCP laughter.]] Embarrassment is this: the PCP and the Left Block affirmed the patamar of 600 € and were overcome. Imagine by whom? by the patronate. The CFP had less ambition than the UGT ( General Workers'Union ), because so. The employers and UGT indicated that there may be conditions for an agreement above 600 €. That is why the CFP presents here a tibia initiative, presents a shameful and inconsequential proposal and only hides the embarrassment of this situation. [[PCP protests.]] Seriousness and responsibility. It is therefore demonstrated that the usual cartilage of discourses that repeatedly affirm that social consultation is an obstacle to the affirmation of workers' rights. Social consultation should be the way, not because it is a barrier, but because it is the correct methodology. It is with a sense of commitment between workers, employers and governments that the solutions that everyone can implement and that they can consider the best interests of all are achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u189	It is with sense of commitment, a sense of commitment that we know does not exist on the far left, that follows the right path. We therefore see a debate today and here which is not well understood by the Portuguese. in fact, how can it be understood that there is a basic parliamentary agreement for the legislature and then there is here the proposals and the 'numbers' that are totally inconsequential and that the Communist Party does not take any relevant political consequence of the non-approval of what it presents? Therefore, in matters of seriousness, if the left has the rhetoric in excess, the right, and the CDS, it remains in responsibility. We must all create conditions for us to create wealth and conditions in Portugal to increase the income of workers, businesses and investment. That is what we all want and that is the first commitment of the CDS-PP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u190	The Bureau no longer registers, although there are parliamentary groups that still have time to intervene. If no one joins, I will give the floor to the CFP Parliamentary Group, which will close the debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of this debate, I want to leave three notes here. One first to talk about one of the major challenges of our country: the living conditions and income of families. Guaranteeing decent living conditions for all is, of course, a guarantee of adequate income for Portuguese workers. Only in this way, with decent incomes, are we able to guarantee a dignified life, a quality life. Only in this way, with decent incomes, are we able to combat social inequalities, poverty and social exclusion. in this context, it takes special importance the national minimum wage. This Parliamentary Group is in favour of updating the national minimum wage for two reasons: consistency and justice. In consistency, because it was the PSD/CDS government that went up the national minimum wage after the Troika came out—I remember that it had been frozen since 2010 by the Socialist Government! [[PSD applause.]] For reasons of justice, because, even today, despite the updates that have been made, we recognize that the national minimum wage is still a low income. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about family income and living conditions, we inevitably have to talk about the economy of our country. What guarantees income to families is economic growth. Without a healthy and growing economy there is no job; without a job there is no income; without a quality job there is no better income. That is why the Government has an obligation to do more and better. It is true that the economy is growing, and that is good. But it is also true that it is not growing as it should, in fact, not growing as the country needs it to grow. Portugal is short of the growth seen on average in the European countries, and that is bad, it is very bad. [[PSD applause.]] We cannot grow to the root of the growth of other countries in Europe and domestic consumption. The government is dazzling at economic growth and this is just the third worst growth in Europe. I repeat, Europe's third worst growth. It can't be! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has to step up its path and devote more concern to the economy. [[PSD applause.]] I leave a second note to say that this Parliamentary Group is in favour of an increase in the national minimum wage being decided in terms of social consultation. It is at the heart of social dialogue, in a climate of dialogue between representatives of employers, representatives of workers and governments that these important matters must be addressed, analysed and decided. Not to value social consultation, as the CFP did here, is not to value the voice of workers. I remember that the Standing Committee on Social Consultation is part of the trade unions and, therefore, that is the voice of the workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social consultation is a social, political and cultural heritage that must be promoted. We therefore hope that there will be a political will by the Government to find a national minimum wage value that is balanced and that will allow this income to rise in a realistic and consistent manner. Finally, a third note to focus this debate on the seriousness that the subject demands and on the facts. in an attempt to escape responsibility, we watch here a game of accounting by the PCP. The CFP today thought: « I will bear in mind that I am opposed and I blame the PSD/CDS government for all the ills in the country ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u192	Not for everyone, but for many!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u193	« I shall bear in mind that I am opposed and propose an increase in the minimum wage, which my Government has already said it does not accept». Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the truth: you are not opposed. You are government and you have been government for three years! Take responsibility, once and for all! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More facts. National minimum wage: frozen in 2010. By whom? by the socialist government! The gentlemen. Were you or were you not in this bench to support this measure? They were! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u194	Memorandum of Understanding: whether or not they recorded the impossibility of increasing the minimum wage while the troika was in Portugal? They've signed up! Mrs. Members, in 2014 after the departure of the troika, who updated the national minimum wage? Who has increased family income? Was it or not the PSD/CDS government? Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u195	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u196	Therefore, contrary to what PCP, PS and the Left Block have done during this debate, the Portuguese demand rigour in the debate, but above all, seriousness and truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u197	Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In conclusion, I would like to begin by saying that in this debate there is doubt and certainty. Let's start with the doubt. Despite the good intentions left here on the right — by the CDS and the PSD — I suspect that the Portuguese are a little confused about the position of these two parties on the subject that is currently under discussion. I want to say that these statements are not enough, and in particular, the statements of the current PSD leader on the minimum wage for all of us to be convinced. This is because, despite the changes in the leadership of the party and the PSD bench, a ghost continues to appear on this House today, it is known, silent about what the PSD really thinks about this matter. I do not refuse to recall the statement by Pedro Passos Coelho — already quoted here by my bankmate Rui Riso — that here in 2013 he said that the most sensible measure to counter unemployment would be the reduction of the minimum wage. That's true, as the gentlemen said. Members, who were in the period of the troika, but already in 2015, after the troika had left Portugal, Pedro Passos Coelho reiterated his idea that it was fundamental to lower the minimum wage. It's written and it's appropriate here to remember it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this serves to remind us of something that history sometimes makes us forget: the PSD and the CDS used troika as an argument to validate their own policy. They always wanted to go beyond the troika...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u200	... and, if it wasn't the PS, maybe today we had permanent cuts in income, cuts in pensions and even more privatizations, as is the case with social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what happened in 2015 with Antonio Costa, with the Government of the Socialist Party, was precisely beginning to prove that Pedro Passos Coelho's statement in 2013 and in 2015 was false and deeply wrong. The increase in the minimum wage, which in these four years will reach about 20 %, has always been with the Socialist Party. It was also with the Government of the Socialist Party, which, between 2006 and 2010, increased the minimum wage in Portugal. This is the brand of the Socialist Party! It was plus 95 € for all workers, more employment, more growth, more export, even if this makes you angry. There are still, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two aspects which I would like to mention here on the governance of the last three years on the valuation of the minimum wage. The first is that this is a political option of the Socialist Party —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u202	...it was in the Government Programme, it was in the joint position and it's on the ground! People feel it, workers feel it! [[PSD protests.]] As much as it costs many benches, the second aspect I would like to leave has to do with how this minimum wage has been increased. The dialogue is relevant, because this increase in the minimum wage has never, but never, been made at the expense of other social rights of workers, neither by the increase in precariousness, nor by the increase in working hours, nor by the facilitation of layoffs. The increase in the minimum wage is an option and does not call into question those same rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there was no other reason for this majority, but especially for this government led by the Socialist Party, to be in office, the simple increase in the minimum wage was more than enough. So I wanted to remember something that distinguishes the current governance from the one that preceded it. Portugal today is no longer a country of rulers who cited Ireland, France and others as cases of success when the minimum wage was reduced. Don't! Portugal is today a beacon of hope in Europe — it is enough to look at our Spanish neighbours, who quickly realized the mistakes made in the past, because austerity did not work, the economic recession did not work, the cuts in wages did not work, the tax shock did not work. The increase in the minimum wage is a conquest of this government that we proudly display. It must continue because it is fair for workers, it must continue because it is fair for the economy, but above all it must continue because it is good for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u203	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we heard this intervention by the Socialist Party, that is to say, this in parentheses in the debate we were doing, it suddenly seemed to me that we had entered a time of great propaganda - in fact, it didn't seem, we even entered a moment of great propaganda! Mr Luís Soares spoke of the Socialist Party's brand, but whether it costs Mr or not, as far as minimum wages are concerned, we know what the Socialist Party's brand has been for the past 10 years. It was the one who pushed for the freezing of the minimum wage in 2010, which threw the country into the troika, into indebtedness, with costs for the Portuguese and which, unfortunately—I repeat, unfortunately— are still paying today. Following the footsteps of the honourable Member, we could talk about the brands of the Socialist Party, at a time when we see in health, education, in the Armed Forces a country strongly threatened in its most elementary functioning, in the functioning of the State. [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]] Yes, Mr. Deputies, these are brands of the Socialist Party! But what brings us here today, what we are facing today, what is the initiative of the Communist Party in this debate, is the total inconsequence of the majority that supports this government, because this majority says to have an agreement, commits itself to a start, submits proposals in the Assembly of the Republic which do not correspond to what the Government required. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] There was the Socialist Party a round « no»! No, the Socialist Party does not support this initiative of the Communist Party! And by the end of the day, what do we have? We only have political inconsequence! Political inconsequence! [[PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, call you what you want, but the Portuguese do not fail to see one thing: political duality. An inconsequence that does not bring anything good to the Portuguese, nor does it bring anything good to the country. We can therefore proceed to the vote, because we will not take anything from here, nor can the Portuguese win this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u205	You now have the floor to end this debate, Mr António Filipe, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must conclude at the end of this debate that the PSD and the CDS have brought nothing useful to the discussion on the national minimum wage, because that is the issue we bring here to discuss. What are you guys talking about? from the PCP here, from the PCP there, they say that the PCP is from the government... they talk about everything and something less than the national minimum wage. That is to say, you continue to insist on a speech of true political schizophrenia. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u207	Us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u208	It's the same thing they're here saying that "the earth is square, the earth is square, the earth is square! », when everyone knows that the earth is round. [[PCP applause.]] I think you haven't noticed the ridiculous figure they're doing in front of the country yet, but that's your problem. [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] Let's go to the questions. The gentlemen. Members consider that the sovereign body competent to decide on the national minimum wage is the Social Concert. It is not the Assembly of the Republic, it is the Social Concertation. And you know why. Because they know that in social consultation the organizations representing the bosses have a veto on the measures that are discussed there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u210	That's your question. [[PSD protests.]] You believe that it is not the Assembly of the Republic that must decide the minimum wage, that it must be the employers' confederations to decide this at their pleasure. The representatives of the workers who participate in the Social Concertation Council already have the experience of knowing that only once they have given their agreement to an agreement on the national minimum wage has not been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u211	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u212	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the Assembly of the Republic that has the power to define this matter and it is an inalienable responsibility to which you really want to flee. But we understand why you want to run away from this debate. Because they bear in mind what was said here, and stated before the country, in particular, by the former leader of PSD Pedro Passos Coelho who, in a 15-year debate in this House, defended the fall of the national minimum wage as a measure, he said, to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u213	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u214	After that, after having been removed from the country's government, he again defended, in an interview in the Business Journal, the drop in the minimum wage, saying that the increase in the national minimum wage would increase unemployment. Imagine! Life has shown exactly the opposite! This is what hurts the PSD and CDS, and that is why, instead of a serious debate on the minimum wage, they prefer to disagree and bring in all the matters that have nothing to do with it. PCP applause. Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte said: 'Well, in recent years the number of workers to receive the national minimum wage' has increased. Well, it's increased, sirs. Members, but it has increased not because they have dropped wages, it has increased because it has increased employment, because there are more people working and fewer people in unemployment. [[PCP applause.]] It is precisely because many of these workers have been paid national minimum wages that we believe this must be increased! That is precisely why, and this argument is only right to the proposal that the CFP brings here. I had recently told Mrs Clara Marques Mendes that this debate outside the House does not say anything to anyone, which is a political 'number'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u215	What I said was that you don't tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ask each of the 1 250 000 workers who in Portugal earns the national minimum wage...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u217	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u218	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, ask each of these workers if this debate does not concern them. Ask if they think it is not fair to discuss the increase in national minimum wage in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u219	Tell that to the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u220	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u221	Mr. President, I'm just going to give you one last example...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u222	I ask you to be quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u223	I'll be quick, Mr. President. in the tourism sector, 200 000 Portuguese workers earn the national minimum wage. Imagine the impact that would have on the national economy to increase the minimum wage of these workers to € 650.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u224	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u225	Certainly, the increase in the minimum wage of these workers would not represent a flight of tourist flows, on the contrary, a huge increase for the national economy, only giving reason to the fairness of the proposal that the CFP brings here and that life itself proves to be absolutely necessary and fair. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on draft resolution No 1808 / XIII / 4. a, the only point on our agenda today. Let us now enter the voting period. While the deliberation quorum is being checked using the electronic system, I give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to report on an initiative taken by the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 1011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August, which establishes the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President. The electronic picture records 186 presences, to which 6 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Deputies João Castro, Luís Soares, Pedro Delgado Alves and Susana Amador, of the PS, and Feliciano Barreiras Duarte and Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD, which makes 192 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Before that, however, I shall give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u228	Mr President, my request for an appeal to the Bureau is under Rule 82. the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block shall appeal to the plenary of the President's decision, which shall not be sent to the Committee of the Draft Resolution No 1848 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government immediately suspend further demolition of dwellings on the island of Culatra, in particular in the nuclei of the Farol and the Hangars, and to, under Article 82 (2). o, to indicate that Mr Vasconcelos will substantiate this appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u229	Mr Nuno Magalhães also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u230	Mr President, it is also for the plenary of Mr President's decision not to be sent to the competent committees of draft resolutions Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government redequate the construction project of the Alvito dam in a multi-use logic of the water, and 1853 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima parish, and to inform that I will be supporting the appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u231	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in speaking terms I would like to say that, like you. Representatives at the highest level of the CDS-PP benches and the Left Block know, we had for months meetings of the Conference of Leaders to establish ways of functioning of the Assembly of the Republic that were more correct and better for Portuguese democracy. These draft resolutions were admitted, contrary to what was suggested yesterday in a few interpelations. They were admitted, simply and in accordance with those which were the conclusions distributed to all the Members. Members of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders of 26 September on draft resolutions are told that « The PAR, informed by the services on the basis of a note of admissibility, supports the draft resolutions for the purposes of Article 128. the RAR or for scheduling in Conference of Leaders". So this decision is to be taken seriously. Yesterday, there were adopted draft resolutions which dropped to the committees and others who were waiting for the Conference of Leaders to be scheduled. This was the case with the draft resolution of the Left Block and the draft resolution of the CDS-PP. It was months and dozens of hours of meetings to improve the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic in various aspects and also on draft resolutions with the presence of parliamentary leaders. We discussed, after an excellent preparatory work done by Vice President Jorge Lacão and Secretary Duarte Pacheco, to whom I very much appreciate, and we reached political conclusions. They were not consensual, it is a fact — indeed, they were contested exactly by the BE and the CDS-PP parliamentary groups — but these conclusions were supported by all other parliamentary groups, thus expressing a large majority of the Members of this House. And in the exercise of my powers, and supported by the resolutions of the Conference of Leaders, I have taken the decision to, in some cases, have sent them to the committees and, in other cases, wait, although they have been admitted by schedules made even by the parties presenting these draft resolutions, if they so wish. The only criterion, which was fundamental to my decision, was a criterion of respect. Respect for various aspects. Respect for the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u232	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u233	Respect by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I respect the political good sense. Respect for the dignity of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u234	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u235	And respect for the specific competences of the municipal assemblies and of the parish assemblies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u236	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u237	... that are not the same as the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, in any event, they have the right to request the votes on the President's decision. You have the floor to base the appeal of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this appeal and vehemently protest by the Left Block have to do with the following: first, draft resolution No 1848 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of new demolition of dwellings on the island of Culatra, in particular in the nuclei of the Farol and the Hangars, has been prevented from going down to its parliamentary committee ; secondly, this decision of the President, which we consider arbitrary, contradicts the indication of the technical services of this House, which must continue to be the House of Democracy, thus creating an inequality in the face of other similar projects in the respective committee ; thirdly, if this decision of the President has the approval, the support of some parliamentary groups, this is even more serious because it decreases and impoverishs parliamentary democracy ; fourthly, this unfortunate decision reads the rights of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, but, far more seriously, reads the rights of the inhabitants of the island of Culatra because it treats them as second-born citizens ; fifthly knowing that the demolitions of dwellings will begin to 7, 8 November, and that there is no date of the resolution of this initiative is necessary, the decision to have been adopted, the resolution of this initiative, the decision to be made before the decision to be made by the decision to be made by the President of this initiative. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u239	... sixth, the Left Block considers that the inhabitants of the cores of the Farol and the Hangars, in Culatra, are not second-aged citizens and therefore we have already made a request to hear in Parliament, urgently, Mr Minister for the Environment. The question posed to all Members of this House and to all Members of this House is whether the Assembly of the Republic should be silenced in the face of further demolition on the island of Culatra. We therefore appeal to the plenary of Mr President's decision to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic treats all citizens in the same way and does not say that there are both first and second. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u240	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u241	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u242	Mr President, considering that an appeal was made, we wanted to be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u243	All right, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen want to intervene, you have that right. But then perhaps Mr Nuno Magalhães will present the CDS-PP and then there will be a global discussion. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to present the CDS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, as yesterday, the CDS is against not only these standards as the interpretation given by you. What's the matter? The question is as follows: can the Conference of Leaders amend the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic without a vote of 230 Members? [[You can't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u245	As far as we're concerned, you can't. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u246	Can the Conference of Leaders give the President of the Assembly the discretionary or even arbitrary power to decide whether a draft resolution may or may not be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and its committees? For us, you can't. Can the President of the Assembly of the Republic or not do so without any grounds? For us, you can't. Can, or should not, a more or less majority circumstantial majority prevent a parliamentary group, withdrawing its freedom, presenting proposals and having them discussed in Parliament, in particular in committee? For us, you can't. More, for us, and as we have told you sometimes without account, it is illegal, unconstitutional and not plural, not even antidemocratic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u248	Yesterday, the President of the Assembly of the Republic admitted, it is true, two draft resolutions of the CDS, but such admission does not allow discussion, as should be done, in committee. More: in relation to the barrier of Alvito, as the services have warned, and well, in the same sense is found the Draft Resolution No 1124 / XIII / 3. a, of the Social Democratic Party. For this reason, you recommended that the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works be discharged, in connection with the Committees on Agriculture and the Sea and the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, where the similar draft resolution of the PSD is located. Therefore, Mr President, what is at stake here is whether or not we are discussing whether or not the Government can re-equalize the construction of the Alvito dam, whether or not it is discussing whether or not the Government can re-equalize the increase in the number of classes in association contracts in the Fátima parish, and there has been, curiously, a petition in the same way with the signature of more than 6000 Portuguese, which today are outraged if this remedy is not accepted. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that the legislator's intention is to say that local affairs are for local authorities. For us, they are not, especially when matters from the inside are involved. The same Parliament that 'fills its mouth' with the interior is the same Parliament that, if it does not vote on this appeal, it will tell the citizens of Alvitto that the barrier of Alvitto has no dignity to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and that it must be discussed in a municipal assembly or in a parish board. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] The same Parliament which « fills the mouth » with education finds it irrelevant the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima parish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u249	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u250	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The same Parliament that always speaks in education says that the number of classes in Fátima parish is there for the Fátima parish board.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u251	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u252	We therefore appeal, Mr President, to the hope that democracy will win. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u253	Democracy always wins in this House. It is false that there is no debate in the committee. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] This debate will take place in committee when the honourable Members. Members will schedule these important draft resolutions for the various banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u254	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u255	Tell that to Alvito!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u256	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been noted that the CDS and the Left Block have sought to transform a resource for the admissibility of initiatives into a debate on the de facto subject of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u258	What you have already realized is that you do not want the matter to be discussed in fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u259	I would like to make it clear that, with regard to the matter of fact, the point is probably the exact opposite of the discussion here. In fact, if the Left Block and the CDS intend to give these matters, for which they recognize great dignity, the dignity of a debate in plenary, we will certainly appreciate them. Moreover, on the subject of demolition on the Ria Formosa bars, we will not fail to vote in favour, as we have always done, and how, moreover, we will have the opportunity to do next week, since the draft resolution of the CFP is scheduled for next Tuesday in committee, because it meets the regulatory requirements for this discussion. [[Protests from BE and CDS-PP.]] One perceives the agitation of the two parliamentary groups, the CDS and the Left Block, but there is one thing that is inevitable: that the rules that are defined are complied with. As Mr President has said, for several months we have discussed this matter. I believe that there is no doubt about the rules that have been defined on these matters. Moreover, the fact that some draft resolutions of the CFP, which have already entered and which have been admitted, have not gone down to the committee, is of our utmost concordance, because it seems to us that this decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic complies with the rules that have been clarified at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u260	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u261	What has been clarified at the Conference of Leaders was that of the existing Rules of Procedure. No amendments have been made to the Rules of Procedure at the Conference of Leaders...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u262	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u263	...because they couldn't be made. What was decided at the Conference of Leaders was to apply the Rules of Procedure as it already exists today. No amendments have been made, the application of the Rules of Procedure has been clarified, as it already exists today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u264	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u265	Therefore, with regard to the merit of the proposals submitted by the Left Block and the CDS, of course, when the Left Block and the CDS understand to schedule them to plenary, we shall pronounce-CL on the merit of them. We will accompany the island of Culatra as others we have followed. We will not follow others with which we may not agree. Now, with regard to the rules, we follow the decisions taken by the President of the House of the Republic, because it seems to us that they not only meet the discussion we had for months but even fully what is defined in the Rules of Procedure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u266	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we had a very brief opportunity yesterday to stress, the initiatives aimed at revising the procedures and not the Rules of Procedure were approached with clarity, transparency and with the aim of ensuring weight and dignity in the parliamentary debate. in this context, what was established were rules concerning both the timing, the form and the need to first request its schedule and discipline a little, more rationally, the way in which the landings operated. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have not been amended unconstitutionally or unlawfully, only practices have been agreed upon which, throughout the history of this House, have always been agreed on this way, defining additionally rules for scheduling at the Conference of Leaders. Therefore, the substance is not at stake; we are not even discussing the substance, nor the merit, nor the value of these initiatives, which either the CDS or the Left Block have put here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u268	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u269	That is not the point, and we will not give any material opinion on these initiatives. What will be of interest, in the debate that is properly scheduled, in accordance with the rules and in accordance with the will and willingness of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a chance to have this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u271	All parliamentary groups and the only representative of the NAP retain the very same rights of delivery and scheduling of initiatives, and we have done so, in accordance with the combination that has been articulated at the Conference of Leaders on the deadlines for doing so, so that parliamentary work can be organised in a rational way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u273	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u274	We ourselves in the past had a legislative initiative which, according to previous practice, we could have dragged on with a project of the Left Block, with regard to wages, and we did not do so precisely because, meanwhile, these rules have come into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u275	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u276	These rules have entered into force to enable all parliamentary groups to know in advance and to prepare initiatives, and so that all parliamentary groups can properly participate in the debate with the weighting and structuring it deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u278	in this case, in particular, we refer to an example of a petition for which it would be possible to drag. Now, the petition has come in for months and it has been reported for months; it is not in 25. the time, hoping that it can be scheduled the following week, which seems to us — and it looked like the Conference of Leaders — that the schedules should take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u280	Six months before the election. He's still a boy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u281	The opportunities to schedule these matters will continue to exist, within the framework of rules which are particularly clear and which keep the full guarantee of the intervention of all parliamentary groups. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Democracy is also a procedure, democracy is also the quality of the debate, democracy is also the opportunity we have to give to the people who are asking us so that parliamentary groups and Members can deliver their resolutions and not have to do it on time or in an excessively close manner to the debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u282	Work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u283	That is, above all, what was agreed at the Leaders Conference. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u284	Well, you can hang nails in your lapel for six months of election!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u285	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u286	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly that what was clearly defined at the Conference of Leaders is that such legislative initiatives will all be admitted and discussed. No one's gonna stay out.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u287	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u288	Mr President, in the use of your powers, you will say which ones you will immediately distribute by the committees and which ones you will be discussing at the Leaders' Conference in order to be scheduled. That is what was mostly decided at our Leaders Conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u289	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the resources for the plenary of the President's decision, starting with the appeal submitted by the Left Block. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, PCP and Os Verdes, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN and PSD Deputies Bruno Vitorino, Manuel Freches and Paula Teixeira da Cruz.]] We are now voting on the appeal submitted by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, PCP and Os Verdes, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN and PSD Deputies Bruno Vitorino, Manuel Freches and Paula Teixeira da Cruz.]] We are going to start the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Let us begin with Vote No 635 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members )............................................................................................................................................ in the galleries are family members, colleagues and friends, who enjoy greeting in this situation of mourning. I ask Secretary Idália Serrão to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u290	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with great sadness that the Members of the Assembly of the Republic heard of the death of Odette Ferreira. Odette Ferreira was a woman ahead of her time, involved, from the very beginning, in research and in the fight against AIDS. He has been a professor since 1986 at the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Lisbon and has been part of the Luso-French research team that first identified type 2 HIV/AIDS virus. Between 1992 and 2000 he was President of the National AIDS Commission. It was then the right person at the right time. in this important position, it demonstrated courage, determination and a unique ability to communicate with the general public and risk groups, combating ignorance and contributing to the dissemination of a culture of prevention and solidarity. It is indeed worthy of public recognition of the work it has done with drug addicts, launching a syringe exchange program that saved many lives and served as an international example. In 2013, he received the National Health Prize very precisely. It was a citizen to whom public health in Portugal was a great duty. at the beginning of this year, it was decorated by the President of the Republic with the Great Cross of the Order of Public Education. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic convey to the family and friends of Odette Ferreira the most significant sense of their disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u291	We proceeded to the vote on the vote that was just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have a second vote of regret, vote No 636 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members )........................................................................................................................................ Also, in this case, there are family members, colleagues and friends here, who I take advantage of to greet. Mr. Pedro Alves will do well to read this regret vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u292	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with sadness that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of actress Mariema Mendes de Campos. His artistic career began in the fado. Mariema, by which she was known, was also the creator of the famous Fairy lives in Lisbon. In 1964, he arrived at the Mayer Park to become one of the reference figures of the magazine theater. in the ABC Theatre, in the Maria Vitória or in the Varieties, he starred at numerous roles that brought him the admiration of the general public, reinforced later by the assiduous presence on television. He also collaborated with Filipe La Feria on the Big Night program and the musicians Amália and My Fair Lady, who were on stage at the Politeama. In addition to the theatre of magazine and the musicals, Mariema's career passed through the National Theatre D. Maria II and the cinema, having participated in films such as Refrigerators and songs of Love, by Luís Galvão Teles, Axilas, by José Fonseca and Costa, or The Cats Do Not Have Vertigos, by António-Pedro Vasconcelos. His last TV participation was in the RTP series Account me as Was, debuted in 2007. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus acknowledge Mariema's journey in Portuguese theatre and convey to their family and friends the deepest condolences for her disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u293	We proceeded to the vote on the vote that was just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the two votes of regret that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed to Vote No 634 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PCP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings by 20. the anniversary of the Nobel Prize in Literature award to José Saramago. I would ask Mrs Sandra Pontedeira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u294	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is purchased in 2018, 20. the anniversary of the award of the Nobel Prize in Literature to José Saramago. Its vast, remarkable and unique literary work, so internationally recognized, will remain an impressive mark in the history of Portuguese literature. throughout his career, José Saramago received 18 literary awards. being distinguished in 1998 with the Nobel, the only one attributed to a Portuguese language author, Saramago gave a world dimension unprecedented to Portuguese literature, language and culture and became the most universal of Portuguese writers, translated and edited in 27 countries. The intellectual, artistic, human and civic dimensions make José Saramago a major figure in the history of our country. Active intervention in the resistance to fascism, Saramago continued this intervention in the period after 25 April 1974, as the protagonist of the construction of a democracy that had as its first reference the defense of the interests of workers, the people and the country. He was a member of the Portuguese Communist Party from 1969 to the end of his life. in the speech at the Swedish Academy, José Saramago said: ‘ The voice that I read these pages wanted to be the echo of the voices of my characters’. on the day he returned to Lisbon, after the award of the Nobel, at the end of a tribute session organized by the Communist Party of Portugal, Saramago went to the Land of Peace to give a warm embrace to the workers there who carried out a journey to fight against changes to labour legislation. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, signed the 20th meeting. the anniversary of the award of the Nobel Prize in Literature to José Saramago, highlighting the importance of the work of this writer of great artistic merit and of indisputable national and international prestige. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u295	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1842 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Egypt. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1849 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the Crown, Spain. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote, in general, on the Proposal for a Law No 143 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Drug Control Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We then generally vote for Law No 115 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the functioning and framework of non-judicial settlement entities for consumer disputes. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We then, in general, voted the Resolution Project No 1816 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the extension of the network of consumer arbitration. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP and the abstention from the CFP and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on the draft resolution No 1817 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent submission to the Assembly of the Republic of legislative initiative to ensure the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the Abstaining of BE.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. We are now voting, in general, on the Bill No 113 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Specifies the crime of aggression by amending Act No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1818 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Measures to enhance education and public school workers. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1808 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Then we have the vote on draft resolution No 1815 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the agricultural system: traditional, intensive or superintensive. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens, the NAP and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PCP abstention.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1778 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Respect for the effective working time of teachers in incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1826 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Recognition of the time of service of teachers placed in incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1840 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Working time declared to the social security of teachers engaged in part-time work. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE and the CFP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u297	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u298	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u299	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1651 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas railway connection ( Caia ) in the transport of goods. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1652 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas railway connection ( Caia ) in the transport of passengers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We are voting now, in general, on Resolution Project No 1681 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the stopping of freight trains in the Alentejo, particularly in Évora, New Sales and Marble Area ( Estremoz, Borba, Vila Viçosa and Alandroal ), but also the use of the whole line in the transport of passengers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on draft Law No 523 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Creation of a single national register and specific CAE for the fun traveling economic activity called « Itinerant Activity of Fun » and 753 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Creates economic activity codes for leisurely travelling economic activities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on Resolution Projects Nos 1754 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting of caulinos in the area of Bar region ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ), and 1776 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — by the area of Bar region ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ) free from the exploitation of caulinos. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] I now give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to take into account an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u300	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juízo Local Criminal do Porto — Juiz 4, Case No 4902 / 14.9T9PRT, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José de Matos Rosa ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-12.u301	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 17 October. in the first item on the agenda we will have political statements. The second point follows the joint discussion of Petition No 454 / XIII / 3. a ( Sonia Isabel Gomes Marinho et al.) — They request legislative amendment related to the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals; of the Bill No 999 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change the penal code preventing excessive confinement of pet animals; draft resolution No 1618 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles associations; of Petitions Nos 372 / XIII / 2a (Elda Juliana da Costa Fernandes et al.) — Request for implementation of public animal protection policies in Braga and 384 / XIII / 3a ( Ana Sofia Gonçalves Marieiro et al.) — Request for adoption of measures with a view to the construction of a municipal canil in the city of Aveiro ; and of the Bill No 1006 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres. Finally, at the third point, we will have the discussion of Petition No 457 / XIII / 3a (Joaquim Marco Ferreira da Silva et al.) — Amendment of the vehicle tax. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 40 minutes.]]
