ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to the following draft laws: No 792 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotes collective bargaining by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 793 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 794 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the extension of the national network and amends the regime of competence, organisation and operation of peace judges ( second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July 2001 in the wording given to it by Law No 54 / 2013 of 31 July 2013 ) ( PCP ), which is lower than 1. the Commission; points 795 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence, ill-treatment, kidnapping or violation of the food obligation ( CDS-PP ) ; and No 796 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ). I also refer to the following draft resolutions: No 1368 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defence of a fully retrained West Railway and with a quality transport service ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1370 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 1371 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a treatment station for pig effluents ( ETES) of public management in Leiria ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1372 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the valuation, study, safeguarding and dissemination of the archaeological set of the Roman ruins of Amaria, in Marvão ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission; points 1373 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the valorisation of vocational education with the guarantee of equal opportunities for all students ( PCPs ), which goes down to 8. the Commission ; point 1374 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent retraining and rehabilitation of the Castro Daire Secondary School in order to guarantee dignity to the entire school community ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 1375 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of current hospitals under public-private partnership ( BE); point 1376 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on accessibility in the municipalities of Chamusca and Golegã and on the standardization of road traffic ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1377 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — For the protection and requalification of the Forte de Santo António da Barra, Conseil de Cascais ( BE ) ; No 1378 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the depollution of the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, as well as for the rehabilitation of its envelopers ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1379 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of mechanisms to support decision-making in compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( BE ) ; No 1380 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By defence and public investment in the National Health Service ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 1381 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up proposals for building standards for interventions in existing buildings in order to ensure the verification of seismic resistance ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1382 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recognition of the eligibility of shrub pastures in mountain regions for the purposes of aid from the CAP ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission; points 1383 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the Forte de Santo António da Barra ( PAN ) ; and No 1384 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the National Health Service, ensuring that all citizens have access to quality and timely care ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, let us now get on the agenda, which is part of the debate on the appeal to the Government No 18 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On delays in the implementation of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Trial Links in Public Administration ) ( BE ). To intervene in the stage of the debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regularization of State precariouss is an essential condition for the defence of public services themselves. It is an act of justice to whom you have been offended in your professional dignity for too many years and prevented from planning your life, but it is also a sign for the entire private sector. A state that does not give itself the example will never effectively combat abuse in private. With the intervention of the Block, it was possible to include in the regularisation programme groups of precariouss which were excluded from the Government's initial proposal. In other words, after the intervention of the Block, trainees and workers were included in false outsourcing. We guarantee a standard of protection against redundancies until tenders are completed and also rules for access to information throughout the process. We have left the way open for the enlargement of the process to the authorities and have set deadlines for each of these objectives. in this process, there were workers, such as the precariouss of the Hospital Center of the West, who mobilized and have already been recognized their bond. Some workers have already received positive responses from the committees, as there were leaders who were committed to doing justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u6	But the process in the evaluation committees has also been marked by delays, by lack of information, by attempts at boycott, by decisions flagrantly wrong in relation to the law that we have passed. The email address that the Block created, a week ago, for complaints about what is not going well in the program, receives more than 100 complaints per day. Today we bring to Parliament specific cases, as well as the apprehension and demands of the precariouss that have been written to us. We do so because we do not accept that the law we passed is distorted by the administration or that the government is less demanding than what was written in the law. We do so because we believe that the government should act immediately, to correct the failures and delays and to ensure that no one is left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u8	Of the more than 600 situations that have come to us, there are six problems which now need an urgent and concrete response and a commitment from the Government. The first problem relates to the explosive combination of delay in the process with lack of information. The competitions should have been opened in mid-February. We're on March! To make the problem worse, workers are missing the point of view of their process and there is now no public and transparent timetable. There were hundreds of precarious people who wrote to us that they have not yet received any response from the evaluation committees, who do not know when they are going to have it, who do not realize why there are no decisions, who are delaying their lives waiting for that answer. Mrs. Ministers, we all know that this is people's lives! We cannot finish the month of March without the process being examined and without the competitions being launched. If, so far, 854 procedures have been approved, what prevents these workers from being tendered? What is the interest in delaying the process of these workers? Nothing justifies it. If, at present, there are already 7844 favourable opinions of the evaluation committees, why wait to approve these procedures and open the competitions? The second problem concerns the protection mechanism that the law defines so that the workers covered by the procedure have the contract extended until the conclusion of the tenders. In many cases, the application of this standard is not happening. And I quote an example: « I was a technical assistant in the hospital between September 2016 and September 2017. I applied for PREVPAP, but the contract is over and I'm gone. Now I'm in a new job-insertion contract and I don't know anything about my process. I have two kids and I need to know if I'm gonna have a job opportunity. Do not keep on seeking. ” I quote another example: « We are 100 exercising precarious functions in the National Road Safety Authority. The management has already confirmed in writing that we exercise permanent functions, but we do not have any information from the CAB ( bipartite evaluation committee ). Will our contracts, which end in the coming months, be extended? Do not keep on seeking. ” Here is another example: « We are administrative officials, green receipts, at Mininho University, several years ago. The Rectory sent us home and says it is waiting for a meeting with the Ministry to know if you can open contests. Do not keep on seeking. ” They also say the workers of ANAC and ANACOM that "the evaluation committee found that we are not part of the scope of the port of call regulating PREVPAP", which is not logical, because we have precisely made an amendment to the law to include these workers. However, it was on the basis of this understanding that they were denied the protection mechanism. Mr Ministers, the delay of the evaluation committees cannot deprive the deficiencies of the protection mechanism that the law gives them. Mr Prime Minister said in this Parliament that he understood — and well! — that the mechanism should be applied from now on. The interpretation is correct, but the government is not guaranteeing concrete decisions that protect people. Clear instructions must be given to the leaders so that contracts are extended and resumed, as has happened, in the West Hospital Centre. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The third problem is in the creative interpretations of the concept of "permanent need" made by service leaders who thus seek to boycott the law. We were together yesterday in Lisbon with scientific workers from the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences, which has several research units, and in this institution there are more than 200 applications to PREVPAP. Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many permanent researchers there are in college? Two! I repeat, two permanent investigators! No one believes that such an institution can have only two permanent needs, but the truth is that there are numerous public institutes or universities linked to interpretations that aim to refuse the regularization of these science workers. This is also true in other sectors. I quote one example: "I am an educational mediator in a group of schools. I'm going into the ninth contract and they say they need my work, but they can't consider me a permanent need because I'm affecting a project that you never know if you're going to have continuity or funding. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nine years — I repeat, nine years! — they do not appear to be a permanent necessity. How many years would it take? Oh, my God! I give you another example: « I am hired by the Ministry of Education and I have been in the same school since 2007, always in the end, in the area of vocational guidance and adult training. Every year, the contract ends and there's a new contract. Don't you know if I'm a permanent need? Oh, my God! Will the adult education bet expire in 2018? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” We are also asked by the workers of the INE (National Institute of Statistics ) :"We are interviewers of the INE and say that we are not permanent needs. But how does INE work without interviewers? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ministers, each evaluation committee has seven members: three from the government, three from the unions and one top executive. That is, no leader, no rector, no director has the power to boycott the program alone. It seems that trying to escape the facts and circumvent the law will only prevail if the government guarantees them. There will be only negative decisions of the committees with the complicity of the government. It is in the Government's hands to announce that the boycott has ended, to prevent who is trying to make that boycott and, at the time of appeal, to correct these decisions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The fourth problem concerns an issue which, both I and the Minister of Labour, we know well about the meetings we had together to prepare the diploma: false outsourcing. That is, recourse to private companies, not to hire a service, but to provide labour. The first version of the Government's bill was amended in Parliament, on a proposal from the Block, to clarify that these perverse ways of disguise the precariousness would be included in this programme, and even though we did so in the law. At the West Hospital Centre, the law was respected and more than 100 workers brokered by a temporary work firm already have their recognized link and await competition. But there are people in the same situation, to whom this right is being denied. Listen to this case: « At RTP Porto, we are 25 workers — half of the permanent workers needed for the RTP Porto to function — brokered by an external company, i.e. we work the green receipt for the Green Code. We have applied to PREVPAP and have since been besieged to sign a service contract that is a lie. » In fact, they want these workers to sign in March 2018 a contract that would have the start date in January 2017 so that the RTP Administration can use these contracts as a pretext to exclude these workers from regularization. I mean, an hymn to the intrusion. And there are more examples: "We are more than 60 nurses, pharmacy technicians, psychologists, dentists, medical action assistants working via outsourcing in three prison establishments. For more than 10 years we have been a permanent and indispensable need, but our leaders say that we will not be covered by PREVPAP because it is the private companies that have to hire us. Do not keep on seeking. ” Another example: "I am a team leader in the regional health authority and I have 10 people in charge, but I work through an external company. I don't know if I'm going to be integrated, because they say that my bond is not with the state. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ministers, it is not acceptable for leaders to use false outsourcing as biombo to pretend these people are not state workers. The evaluation committees cannot validate this reading and it is in the hands of the Government to ensure that these workers are integrated in these committees. A fifth case is that of trainees who have carried out permanent needs, which were not included in the Government's initial proposal, but which were included, by proposal of the Left Block, in the law. We speak of all kinds of examples: trainees in the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), trainees in the PSP ( Public Security Police ), trainees in the court...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u10	I shall finish, Mr President, by asking you for some tolerance. We speak of trainees in all types of services, including those at the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ) to analyze the monitoring of IEFP's internship programs. Trainees were included in the law, but evaluation committees are saying that the law does not bind them. For the Block, this interpretation is an aberration. It is in the Government's hands to resolve this problem, to call upon the interns' processes, to give explicit order for the positive opinions of the leaders to be sent directly to their ministries and to be approved. It is also necessary for the Government to give a signal for integration into the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u11	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u12	I shall conclude by saying that the process of regulating State precariouss is a historic opportunity to correct injustices and illegalities and we leave here concrete challenges to the Government. It is because we take the floor and it is because of the success or failure of this programme that the government will be judged, not only by the Block of the Left, but by all the precariouss that see in this majority the expectation that they will finally be respected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u13	Even during the opening of the debate, the Minister for Finance has the floor to speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government presents a point of a situation of another commitment it is fulfilling, to combat precariousness in the State, with the aim of valuing the Public Administration and its workers. I should like to start by recalling that the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precincts does not appear isolated in the Government Programme. Valuing work in public functions is one of the central objectives of government action. In order to re-evaluate workers as key actors of State action, the government has been developing an intervention at various levels, and the fight against precariousness is one of them. However, we must not forget the freezing of careers, the replacement of the values of extraordinary work, the elimination of wage cuts and the replacement of 35 hours of work, as well as the new system of vocational training. We are also responsible for the regeneration of public services, particularly in the areas of health and education: in health, it represented an increase in the number of doctors and nurses by about 11%, corresponding to an average net increase of 930 doctors and 1400 nurses per year; in education, between the fourth quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2017, the number of teachers increased by about 6138, corresponding to an average increase of 2000 teachers per year. These various dimensions of appreciation of the Public Administration and its workers represent a very significant investment, which is reflected in the present and future: it is EUR 450 million with the reversal of the reduction in remuneration in 2016 and 2017; it is more than EUR 650 million associated with defrosting careers; it is more than EUR 400 million associated with other measures to value human resources—for example, extraordinary hours and night work. It is important to continue and consolidate this path to ensure an active and proactive role of workers throughout their working life, even if the functions and challenges change and change in public organisations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process of extraordinary regularization of precarious links has always had as its main concern to deal with concrete situations. It is a programme based on sound concepts, in particular the definition of « permanent need» and « appropriateness of the link », and it is a programme based on the clear distinction between situations which are subject to regularization from those which are not, because they cannot and should not be regularizable. Therefore, it is good to remember that the work we find ourselves doing began by being based on an exhaustive survey of the temporary situations in the Public Administration. at this time, we remembered the need to never confuse situations of temporary nature with situations of precarious nature. We do not confuse concepts, we do not create unrealistic expectations, and we only commit ourselves to what is legitimate and proper to consolidate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Public Administration has, and will continue to have, temporary workers, provided that it is suitable for the satisfaction of non-permanent needs. The regularisation process has, sequentially, allowed an individualised assessment of the existing situations and the appropriate or inadequate use of the contractual instruments used to meet the permanent needs of the services. This assessment — I repeat, concrete and individualised — aims to ensure that the process takes shape with all guarantees of justice, in two-partial committees, so that unilateral subjective assessments do not prevail and to ensure that at no time we are protected from preconceived ideas, with flexibility and always with a sense of justice. This flexibility is attested to the extent with which the hypothetically covered situations are identified in the law, the extension of the deadline for the submission of applications, so that no worker is out of the picture, and the diversity of situations that have been approved. The rules have been clear and ensure that constitutional and legal principles, conforming to the legal architecture of public employment, are respected in its core. The work under way is, of course, demanding and must be carried out with all rigour. An individual assessment of the situations is not compatible with a superficial and purely bureaucratic treatment of the processes, but requires collection of complete information so that the judgment in each case is substantiated and adjusted to a process that supports extraordinary integration into the State. This explains the working time that the evaluation committees have devoted over the past few months to this Programme. The agenda for meetings was strengthened, as well as the support of the technical secretariats, and we even completed one of the committees, which had a greater number of processes. Let me now share the main issues of this process: to date, more than 350 meetings of the evaluation committees have been held; one of the committees has already completed its work and, of the rest, six will complete its work during March and all the others with the utmost speed, to ensure the timely opening of all competitive procedures and their completion by the end of 2018, as has always been assumed by the Government ; of the 31 957 proceedings relating to direct and indirect administration, 7844 favourable opinions have already been decided by all the evaluation committees and, to date, 854 have been fully approved and are ready to proceed to tender ; most of the unfavorable opinions already issued by the committees are currently being heard by interested parties, so it is not possible to present a number for these cases. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have defined the rules for extraordinary regularization and we are fulfilling them with strength and certainty. We do not have a predetermined number of regularizable situations, we will have the number that will result in a very engaging process. It is not a number subordinated to any rational financial conditioning character, it is the number that is being ascertained as corresponding to permanent needs with inadequate linkage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Precise Links in Public Administration is a very important part of a collective design, that of having a public labor force capable of meeting the needs of people, in present and future generations, and must give us the motto to rethink how the Public Administration organizes and works to deliver value with sustainability. This process is now possible because it is included in the Government Programme, a government that has fully complied with the measures it has entered into there and a government that has brought credibility to the political decision process because it has honored its commitments and because it has not called into question the financial and economic stability of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is correcting its economic imbalances — today this has been noted by the European Commission. The issue we are debating today in the House of Democracy is also essential to correct some of these imbalances. As we learn from the most difficult way in the past not too far away, we cannot pretend to correct imbalances by looking back, jumping in the dark or assuming positions that are not characteristics of economic, financial, but above all social sustainability. As we said at the time of the departure of the excessive deficit procedure, the country does not want, cannot and will not go back. So we need to think carefully and demanding all the measures we have implemented, even those that have been due for a long time—and this is the case that brings us here today—or, indeed, many decades ago, because worse than doing nothing is doing it wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u16	And neither one thing nor another can this government be referred to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u17	Minister, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. The future is built with a larger active population, with appropriate working links and with more advanced training. The future builds on everyone and corrects, in time and in the financial dimension, the difficulties that we still identify in the country today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u19	The Bureau records the inscriptions to request clarification from Mr José Soeiro, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, the PSD, and Mr. Deputies Antonio Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP, and Ricardo Bexiga of the PS. The honourable Member will be pleased to inform the Bureau of how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u20	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u21	Mr Maria das Mercês Borges, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, today we are debating, by schedule required by the Left Block, the regularization of the links of employees of the Public Administration who are in a precarious situation. A little more than a month ago, there was an identical scheduling, promoted by the Portuguese Communist Party. Now here goes one, there goes another, and everyone disputes the same space.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u23	It's true! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u24	Everyone will discuss the same matter and the government will always answer the same thing. Even it seems that they are not understanding each other in the same coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u26	They're all part of it, but then they don't understand each other. What is happening here is no more than a farce and a achievement. A farce because the Left Block supports the government, meets regularly—and Mr José Moura Soeiro made this reference—with the Government. He referred more: « We did... we did... » — they did together with the government — «...the process, the organization...». They did everything and now they're complaining? Oh, my God! Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u28	Because they created expectations for 112 000 people, their families and much more citizens, telling them that they would all enter the Public Administration. We have been in a little over 31 000 and now Mr Finance Minister says that 854 are in a position to go to the competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u29	It was 112,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u30	At the end of a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u31	At the end of a very little year it's gone! So, what is our expectation? It is that you tell us how you feel about this achievement that you are creating people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u33	You did well to mention the numerous e-mails you have been receiving. They should receive much more, because, together with the government, they have created enormous expectations for people and today they do not respond. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] It's sad! It's regrettable! And I think that the honourable Member should feel the weight of that responsibility. To create expectations when, before that, as Mr Minister mentioned, the jobs and permanent needs of each entity have been identified. How do you come up with such high numbers? Oh, my God! How do you justify them? Or did the government give in to the Block's demagogy to support the government? [[PS and BE protests.]] This is the question: are we in the face of demagogy or are we in the face of truth? Finally, Mr José Moura Soeiro, the CABs (the two-party evaluation committees), in addition to representatives of the ministries, are they not also members of the unions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u34	Sure! That's what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u35	Aren't they properly designed to identify who brings together, or not, conditions? Is the procedure approved or not by the members of the CAB?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u36	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u37	So why did only a little more than 7000 seem favorable so far? [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u38	As usual, the Bureau grants discounts in the time of subsequent interventions provided that a certain percentage of the initial time is not exceeded. in these debates, the Bureau is tolerant. Mr António Carlos Monteiro now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u39	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, the Left Bloc has scheduled this inquiry to the Government saying that he is concerned about the delays in the process of regulating precariousness. The CDS is concerned about the precarious situation in general and especially in the State. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] But who should first answer some questions is the Left Block. So we ask the Block: have you only found out now that the process is late? [[BE's protests.]] It is that, if you recall, this matter was negotiated by you to support the government that now rules the country, and in the 2016 State Budget a study should have been conducted by October of this year, 2016. But what happened? What happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u40	It's not done!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u41	What happened was that the study began in October, November, December, January, February and March. [[PS and BE protests.]] And what did this study say? He said there were 116 000 employees who would eventually be in a precarious situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u42	There wasn't, there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u43	The government said that this number would always be below 116 000. What did you say at that time? They said, "No, no! They'll be, of course, more! It's more than 116 000! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u44	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u45	The reality is this: CAB processes at this time are little more than 30 000. With regard to the bill, the resolution of the Council of Ministers said that the bill should be here in Parliament until 31 March 2017. Well, once again, what happened? It ended March, it passed April, May, and on the last day, which was on June 30,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u46	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u47	He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u48	...there appeared the bill and, without prior public discussion, discussed on 7 July.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u49	And what did the CDS do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u50	And the truth is, according to this bill, the competitions would be by February—again, everything is delayed. And didn't the Left Block get upset?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u51	Where are your proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u52	It is that, in particular, in the debate in the field of specialty, there have been several questions which have been raised and which have not been answered. What do you say to part-time workers? What did they say? That for each two who went out, only one entered. Well, that means sending half of these same workers away.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u53	At least!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u54	You didn't bother at that time? With regard to the situation of those who did not accept the maturity cut to be integrated, what did you, together with the Socialist Party, defend? They're fired! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u55	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u56	You didn't bother with that? Oh, my God! Did they not bother having to send him away even if he did not accept a maturity cut and then had to be dismissed? Oh, my God! [[PS and BE protests.]] Now, the government has decided to regulate the precariousness and the fact is that we continue with numerous complaints. What does the government do? The government is dragging its feet! He drags his feet because, above all, he increases the number of precariouss rather than decreases. The Government undertakes in Brussels to reduce the number of public servants, and they continue to increase. Of course, the government is dragging its feet, and the Left Block is doing what? Come now to make complaints in the plenary, that's what you do! And what the Left Block can't run away from is that it's gone to feed the precarious expectations of hunting at the vote of the precarious ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u58	And now, your government, the supporting government, and the Left Block are frustrating these expectations, are frustrating these people's expectations, and the question is obvious...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u59	Mr President, you have already exceeded twice your time. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u60	I shall finish, Mr President, with the question: what consequences will it have? Are you going to censor the government? It is that if they do not remove any consequences, what they are doing does not pass from a scene that should embarrass the Left Block, because they are only misleading the precarious ones. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Maria das Mercês Borges.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u61	To request clarification, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u62	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, the Government established in its Government Programme the promotion of employment and the fight against job insecurity as a priority and made a commitment to establish a clear policy for the progressive elimination of the use of precarious work and employment programmes in the public sector as a way to address the human resource needs for the functioning of various public services. This priority was also envisaged as a political commitment in the PS electoral programme, initiating a new concept of Public Administration, focusing on the enhancement of the exercise of public functions, the rejuvenation of the Administration and the promotion of innovation and modernization of the State. This programme is therefore a achievement of the PS and the Government, supported by this parliamentary majority, and we can see from the speeches of the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS who, if it were to depend on them, would not pass and we would continue with the shameful situation of precariousness in the Public Administration and the business sector of the State. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] There is a fundamental idea that we would like to make clear: workers in public service cannot be second-hand workers, they must have the same rights and opportunities as private sector workers — the right to a career based on merit, the right to a decent remuneration, the right to continuing vocational training and the right to decent working conditions. Human resources management in the Public Administration must be as efficient as it is required to be in the private sector, with the appropriate planning of needs, with the focus on the quality of service to the citizen, with constant concern for the satisfaction and professional performance of the employees of the Public Administration. The procedure pursued by the Government for the regularization of precarious work in the Public Administration has been exemplary in this regard. It is an open and transparent process, a process attended, particularly by workers'representatives, a flexible process capable of adapting the procedures to the various modalities of precariousness that have been detected in the Public Administration. The diversity of the precarious links identified throughout the process required that several differentiated legal solutions be built for extraordinary regularization, taking into account the nature of the link, as well as the service benefiting from the provision of work. We have set a date for the start of the programme and a date for its conclusion and we are convinced that the process will be completed within the planned planning. As you know, the scope of the programme covers not only the Administration of the State but also a set of autonomous institutions, such as universities and local authorities. However, it is known that the Government cannot intervene in the decisions of these institutions and can only be a facilitator of solutions for the various specificities of each process. The questions which I leave to Mr. Member of the Left Block are the following: what are the proposals of the Left Block to overcome the constraints identified in his intervention, namely the natural vicissitudes of a participating process, based on a mechanism, which are the two-party evaluation committees, and which effectively ensures the participation, transparency and flexibility of the operation of this process? On the other hand, how can the government intervene in autonomous institutions and organizations, such as universities and local authorities, in order to give speed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u63	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time by more than 100 %. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u64	... that the Left Block wants to be introduced in this process? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u65	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u66	Mr President, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, it seems you have not heard my speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u67	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u68	...and that is why you may not have noticed the debate you are in, is that there was no debate a month ago scheduled by another party on the same subject. That didn't exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u69	Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u70	We are now holding a debate, scheduled by the Left Block, on the process of regulating the precariouss.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u71	Don't tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u72	And no matter how many more pirouettes you want to give, we know who you are. The PSD and CDS are an obstacle to the recognition of the work of State precariouss and were enemies of the regularization of the precariouss.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u73	You have supported the dismissals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u74	PSD and CDS voted against! They voted against the recognition and regularization of precarious workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u75	How many have been integrated?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u76	If the PSD and CDS had the majority in the Assembly there would be no regularization of precariousness. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] But there is more: I have been with Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges and Mr António Carlos Monteiro in the specialty process, where there have been dozens of hearings of groups of precarious workers, of groups of precarious workers, of trade union organizations, which have caused us many problems. I would like to ask you one question: how many proposals have the CDS and PSD made to respond to the problems posed by the precariouss, the pockets, the trainees, the green receipts, the workers of the regulators, the workers of the operational programmes? How many were the proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u77	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u78	Don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u79	The Left Block presented more than 10 proposals in the field of expertise to improve the government's initial project. How many proposals have the PSD and CDS submitted?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u80	Zero! [[Protests from the members of the CDS-PP Antonio Carlos Monteiro and PSD Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u81	Ten, five, two, one for sample? Oh, my God! None! Absolutely no proposal to respond to the problems of precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u82	Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u83	Not one for a sample! Zero! Zero proposals! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from the members of the CDS-PP Antonio Carlos Monteiro and PSD Maria das Mercês Borges.]] However, the Member of the CDS, in the midst of a whole set of meaningless things, brought here the true argument. What is the concern of the CDS in the process of regulating precariousness? That the Government is not complying with the Brussels imposition that there will be no more civil servants. Does the CDS also worry about workers who have lost their jobs? Does the CDS worry that there are employment-inclusion contracts to earn 80 € to perform permanent functions? Does the CDS concern trainees to perform essential functions for services? Does the CDS worry that public services are having difficulty responding to citizens? No, the CDS responds by Brussels, and that is enlightening. Mrs. Members, in the mailbox that we created for this debate have dropped several complaints and complaints, and the precarious ones know what the PSD and CDS mean in this process, in their relationship with the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u84	We know, we know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u85	« We are 20 workers of a parish board in Braga,... » — I will not say the name, because the autoarchs of the PSD and CDS can be vengeful and retaliation—... [[That's serious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u86	... «... of PSD and CDS, more than three years ago, all false green receipts. Our situation has already been communicated to the Directorate-General for Local Administration, but they do not want to regularize us..." — the PSD and the CDS in this joint — «... because they say we are not permanent functions. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I will continue to quote the e-mail: « We were no longer counting on the PSD and CDS. We want to have a life. Take away from this nightmare, which is already beginning to have moral harassment. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u87	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u88	Mrs. Members, this is what they have written to us, and we tell these workers: yes, we are just working to get you out of this nightmare, which was the PSD and CDS in the country and how the right treats precarious workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I end by telling the Socialist Party that this project has been negotiated on the left, that we are proud of the law that came out of this Parliament and therefore it must be implemented. The government must do five things: recover the delay and initiate the competitions of the processes that have already been approved; no longer postpone and unfold the CABs; ensure the transparency of the process and give instructions for the protection mechanism to be activated; prevent, in the committees, the boycotts to the law(universities are autonomous, but they are worth a vote in a committee that has seven elements, three of the government and three of the trade unions, so it is possible to correct decisions that boycott the integration of the precariouss) ; and finally and, in essence, respect people, recognize their work and be as demanding in this process as we have been when we passed the law together. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved to the stage of requests for clarification to the Minister for Finance and to the effect of 11 Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau was informed that the Minister for Finance will respond to groups of four, in this case, it will be to two groups of four and a group of three, because it is 11 the Members. Member States. Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, 5800 are the number of requests submitted in the higher education and science sector. So far, as far as researchers and teachers are concerned, only 1050 requirements have been analyzed and, of these, only 37 have been approved. In its overwhelming majority, the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities), the rectors, and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education have voted against the integration of precarious researchers and teachers at Portuguese university.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u91	But it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u92	We're not talking about people who two months ago went to school for two hours, we're talking about people hired at 60 %, 70 %, 80 %, years ago at the Portuguese university. We're talking about researchers with 10 and 15 years of house, who jumped from stock exchange. We collected yesterday a communiqué from the CRUP which is very explicit about its position with regard to these teachers and researchers. The COR then says that the mission of universities presupposes a high rotation of its researchers and fellows, which requires specialized training dependent on high time durations, which should not be confused with permanent needs. It adds, it says until PREVPAP is a procedure that does not guarantee the principle of merit as a criterion of entry. from the Minister of Higher Education we already know the answer: it has done so with the CRUP in the joint committees and lead the entry of these precariouss into the frameworks of universities. Mr Minister, do you have the capacity to respond to Mr. Minister of Higher Education and to give a positive response to these scholarships, these precarious university teachers? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u93	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u94	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen present. Precautionary should not be used for political pantomime, it should not be for the Bloc to come here to pretend that it is not responsible for the incapacity and for the mistakes of this government. It is obvious that as guilty are those who rule as those who stand at the door of the Assembly to support. In September 2017, the current government promised that the first competitions for the regularization of State precariouss would advance in January 2018. It is true that February has passed and there is no sign of the competitions for the admission of workers with precarious links. The question is this: is it to be strange? Perhaps, it is not because the left-wing parliamentary majority, rather than worrying about the situations of real precariousness, rather than resolving the situation of those who have been meeting the permanent needs of the State without an adequate bond, wanted to take advantage of the wave to go further. Mrs. Members, it was obviously not by chance that Law No 112 / 2017 came to consider precarious all those who had performed functions, I quote, « (...) between 1 January and 4 May 2017 (...) and for at least one year at the date of the (...) competitive procedure of regularisation; ». Mrs. Members of the Left Block, if the contests had been in January, of course all the young socialists and other leftists who entered the state between February and May last year were left out,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] ...lost the job opportunity for life, and that's not what the government would allow.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u95	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u96	Mr Minister, I ask you this: of the deficiencies identified so far by the evaluation committees, how many have entered the state since this government was held?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u97	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u98	How many precariouss came in after November 26, 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u99	It was 10,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u100	Mr Minister, if it has not been to give employment to young socialists and other leftists who have already entered the state with this government,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u101	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u102	... please tell us, explain to the country, why you wanted to call it precarious and include the contracts until May 2017, May of last year, because that is what is in the law you approved. For the PSD, it is imperative to quickly resolve the processes of integration of true precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u103	That is why they voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u104	The PSD does not accept that this government is playing with people's expectations and considers, above all, wrong that the problem of precariousness is used as an employment agency for young socialists and other left-wingers. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u105	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u106	Minister, when are you going to open the contests? When will true precariousness see its regularized processes? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u107	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u108	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u109	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u111	Mr President, I am old in this House and it was not usual in the Assembly of the Republic to use expressions that may be offensive to the other Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would ask Mr President to use his powers, because I think, in particular, that the word "pantominice" is not appropriate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u112	You weren't here in the previous legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u113	Madam Member, the Bureau records its appeal, but it does not see any reason to intervene in the way it has requested. To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State and Mrs. Members, the adoption, and subsequent implementation of the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precise Links in Public Administration was a historic moment in this Parliament and has come to give shape to one of the most ambitious proposals contained in the Programme of this Government. This programme was an initiative of the Government itself and its implementation is no more than the fulfilment of its own governance programme, which has chosen, since the first hour, the fight against job insecurity and the promotion of employment. And the word given — let me say it — is indeed an honest word! And, still, worse than doing harm is really nothing to do! This Government has taken the right time to take the step forward for the regularization of the precarious links. He assumed, in good time, that he should be the State, as an employer, to set an example, falling upon him the legal obligation and the ethical duty to contribute to the elimination of all forms of precariousness at work. The implementation of PREVPAP has been an example of how these processes should be conducted in a transparent, clean manner, open to all stakeholders. The implementation of this Programme has required a great deal of all stakeholders, whether the leaders of the Public Administration, whether trade unions or workers, whether Parliament or, above all, the political parties which, since the first hour, have applauded and supported this initiative by presenting proposals, conveying the concerns of workers and seeking solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u116	So they did the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party. So they did the parties that support this government. Thus they did neither PSD nor CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u117	The implementation of this Programme will allow not only to restore legality in the State's working ties, but also, above all, to restore dignity to thousands of workers who can finally see their work situation stabilized and in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u118	For now, they're little, for what they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u119	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, such as « special mobility », « requalification », so feared by public administration workers and who were no longer a passport for unemployment, are now part of the past. That, yes, Mrs Maria das Mercès Borges, was an achievement, was an abuse, was an attack on workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Deep down, and I will never tire of repeating, everything is summed up in respect for those who work, and for those who work in public functions. This distinguishes us from PSD and CDS. This also distinguishes the left-wing government and the PS from the right-wing governments. Is the procedure taking longer than expected? We accept that. But, as the people say, the wise people, «is fast and well, there are few who! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u120	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u121	If you will allow me, this has indeed been a well done process, it has been a participatory, democratic and transparent process. Each process concerning each candidate is analyzed and evaluated individually, each case is analyzed taking into account its characteristics and specificities. It's not a generalized process. The aim is to reach the needs of each worker. I therefore ask the Government whether this will not be the cause of greater laxity throughout this procedure either. But we also say that if it is necessary to take longer than initially planned, so that more answers can be given and all requests can be better appreciated, then so be it. After all, what difference will two or three months make for workers who waited years to have a solution, without anything being done, without any answer being given to them? What matters, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that at the end of the day these thousands of people who for years have seen their suspended lives can finally achieve the merit and more than just stability of their working bonds. So, and in conclusion, I ask the Government whether the process we are now discussing, PREVPAP, is actually late,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u122	Of course he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u123	...and that being the case, why. It has recently been reported that there has been an extension of the original deadline for applications. There was a second phase of applications which also delayed the entire procedure. I ask the Government whether this second stage was initially planned for the timing of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u124	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u125	I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that what is being done is to respect people, to respect and to dignify their work. This is what is asked of a left-wing government, what is asked of a government that is worthy of fulfilling its obligations. We really don't want to leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u126	You have the floor, for the last request for clarification of this round, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, on 8 May 2017, was created an expectation in relation to special careers in higher education, namely that teachers and researchers in a universe estimated at 16 000 would be included in PREVPAP. This was said by Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education. Yesterday, at a hearing with the same Minister, we learned that in general careers the approval rate is 47% but in specials in which they were included, is 3 %, 5 %. The Minister explained to us yesterday at the hearing, although not exactly by these words, but in a more suggested way than explicitly, that this happened because, in fact, PREVPAP is not the right instrument for integration into special careers, that for this there are other instruments, and he said it explicitly contradicting what the law of PREVPAP says. But more: Mr. Prime Minister, in February, came to the public square to warn, even with a certain moralizing tone, the rectors for the need to engage in the fight against precariousness. Moreover, the same Prime Minister who, on 4 April last year, said that all actual precariouss, between 80 000 and 100 000, would be integrated, he said, and I quote « because the State is not above the law». It's not the state but it looks like the government, it seems the government is above the law... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u128	... when Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education gives the saying by no means and says that, after all, PREVPAP is not the instrument to make the integration of special careers. And that law, above which the Government is, is the same one that was approved by the Bloc, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, who are the monopolistics of the discussion of the integration of precariouss but who, frankly, for monopolies have not yet left the house of departure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u129	Is that all jealousy or envy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u130	The gentlemen, yes, have created expectations, the gentlemen, yes, have approved a law and they will now say what? Whether they have repented or, after all, in this 16 000 universe of special careers, none of them are precarious and all of them are anything else that is still about to define what will be? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u131	To answer this first set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions asked and start by answering Mr Luís Monteiro saying that, in fact, PREVPAP is not the appropriate legal instrument to regulate situations of possible precariousness that exist in some careers in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u133	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u134	It is true that Law No 57 / 2017 has been approved in this House for scientific employment, for the career of research, which is a very ambitious law, which, as you know, is being implemented and will give rise to contractual relations due to Mrs. Researchers, who, as you know, are in fact subject to a very significant instability of their employment relationship. It is also true that the Statute of the University Teacher Career provides for specific situations of term contracts that are regular in this career and are not subject to PREVPAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u135	They are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u136	It is true that 2297 requirements were presented in the general careers of science, technology and higher education, 1087 were analyzed, i.e. the 47 % that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa mentioned, and the regularisation rate is 63 %. This is, in general, the vast majority of processes in science and higher education, in general careers, which involve a very large number of workers, are being analyzed and are being regularized. It is true that these processes sometimes create expectations. Now, the expectations have to be managed and we would all contribute to the proper management of these expectations if we followed the risk of what was the PREVPAP process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u137	Or follow the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u138	The fact is that, on the second page of PREVPAP's first report, it was said, very clearly, that the survey that was made there was of all temporary relations, not existing, at the moment when the 112 000 temporary labour relations were identified with the State, no identification of precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u139	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u140	... and the expectations that were created, if created, were for misreading and interpretation of this procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u141	People don't understand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u142	It is clear that we should not play with the expectations and that is why this process is demanding, it is rigorous, it has to be done — and also responding to Mrs Carla Tavares — in a very detailed exercise of collecting concrete information, on a case-by-case basis, without any disruption of bureaucratic or administrative origin that can affect people's lives. Madam Member, it is true that this process is delayed, but it has been delayed for many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u143	Do we applaud the delay?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u144	In fact, this process is so late that it should not even exist, and otherwise the conditions for this identification of precariousness were created this process did not exist. Now, this government's responsibility for this process will not waver, we will implement it, we are implementing it within the time window that we have planned and we will bring it to the end with a huge rigour and demand that we have always put in these situations. For example, the question of extending the deadline for submission of requests was a measure introduced in the middle of the process which led to it being extended for a while longer, but it is a good delay, because it was a delay that made the whole process of determination of the precariouss and its more transparent, more inclusive regularization and a process for all, as Mrs. Depute said, without leaving anyone behind. Mr Álvaro Batista — and I will allow you to pass the number you have already made in the Committee on Labour of disrespect for all employees of the Public Administration —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...if I had done the housework and had not repeated here the report you did in the Committee on Labour, I would know that all the contests are ready to open. In the public employment grant, which is managed by INA, there are already 897 competitive procedures, which correspond to 2138 jobs; everything is ready, everything is going on and this process of regularization of the true precariouss that have inadequate contractual links will be taken to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u145	And how many others are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the second round of questions, so I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u147	Mr President, Minister for Finance, a previous note: the PSD and the CDS did not present any amendments because they voted against this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u148	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u149	PSD and CDS are against a process of regulating precarious links in Public Administration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Furthermore, the PSD and the CDS, during the four years of government, did not even approve a proposal from the PCP, always gave a proposal from the PCP for a diagnosis how much more to solve the problem! ... PSD and CDS are part of the problem they are not part of the solution. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, as regards the need for solutions to the problem on the table, we would like to say the following: in fact, the delay of this process is 20 years. The last process of regularization of links took place in 1998 and therefore there are now workers in the Public Administration who have been providing permanent needs of services for 20 years but with precarious links, without link to the Public Administration, with less wages and less rights, and that is not acceptable. All workers who respond to a permanent need must have an effective link to the State because they guarantee social functions of the State. Be scientific research fellows, be trainees, be employment-insertion contracts, be long term contracts, be higher education teachers, be false green receipts, respond to permanent needs and have to have an effective link. It is a matter of justice and compliance with the law. We understand that a permanent job has to correspond to an effective bond and, as the CFP has already said, the deadlines laid down in the law should be maximum deadlines and not minimum deadlines, because every day more than 20 years is one more day and it is very fair for workers to want to solve the problem as soon as possible. What we understand is that it is not a technical problem, it is a political problem, and that is why this problem must be resolved with a willingness to guarantee employment with rights and that all workers who respond to permanent needs are linked to the Public Administration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u150	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u151	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance : This Government has taken up, and in our view, the fight against precariousness as one of its priorities in the field of labour. This is also a commitment which is contained in the joint position which the Socialist Party has signed with the Greens Ecological Party and which expressly refers to, and I quote, 'the fight against precariousness, including false green receipts, the abuse of internships and the use of employment-inclusion contracts for replacement of workers'. We are therefore talking about a fight that is required because, in fact, whether through term contracts, either through temporary employment contracts, scholarships, internships or false green receipts, the truth is that from a few years to this time precariousness has sought to take account of the working reality of our country. We well know that this situation has gained a new dimension with the policies and options of the previous government, with the PSD Government / CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u152	Look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u153	...that, in fact, did not hide its intention to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. We are talking about policies that have sought to generalize precariousness, in an attempt to make the rule rule in labour relations, and that is why we have to quell this sudden and sudden concern of the PSD and the CDS around the fight against work precariousness. In fact, when you were in the government, you did nothing more than sow precariousness. In fact, Mr Álvaro Batista asked how many cases have been regulated since the government took possession, but the question can be asked in another way: how many precarious links have been created by the PSD/CDS government? The question should be asked in these terms!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u154	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u155	The comparison cannot be made between the procedures that have already been resolved by this Government and the previous one. We must compare the crowd that you have referred to as precarious to those cases that the government is trying to solve. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You also voted against this regularisation process, so you don't want regularisation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u156	We want it! We want strict regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u157	...you want to continue to sow precariousness. In fact, this is in your ideological matrix, and I don't know why there is so much confusion around this, so startled and this sudden concern about the process of regularization. You don't want any regularization, you want to continue to sow precariousness. The facts show him! That is why, Mr Minister, there is a serious need for a serious fight against this serious problem that precariousness is in our country, until, as the Minister will recognise, the increase in precariousness increases unemployment — as it has also been seen during the PSD/CDS government — which means that, by combating precariousness, we are also fighting unemployment. Mr Minister for Finance, on PREVPAP we found two serious problems in this process, the first being the visible delays in the progress of the proceedings in relation to the planned timetable, and on this matter it would be important for the Minister not only to speak to us on the grounds that these delays were justified but also to advance us some dates for the opening of the tenders which should have been opened in February. Another problem is the refusal by the evaluation committees of the applications submitted. In fact, refusals cross various sectors of the Public Administration — health, education, agriculture, environment, justice, Community programmes and out there — and in this vast universe of people and sectors there have been workers with precarious links for more than 20 years. Now, people working in the agencies for years and years must respond to the permanent needs of the services. It is not understood how, in relation to workers who are required to services permanently for 10 or 15 years, it is now concluded that they do not satisfy permanent needs. It's not acceptable, it doesn't make sense, it can't be! In fact, we have knowledge of stockholders who have been working for 20 years and who have started to have a contract, followed by a scholarship, then a service contract and now again have a scholarship. That is, after 20 years of work and all this instability, when the state should restore justice, it is said that these people do not meet the permanent needs of the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u158	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. The same can be said of the workers of the Community funds, who are basically going to spend their lives working with precarious links. Therefore, Minister, it was good for you to tell us what is leading the evaluation committees to refuse the candidatures. If this is a bureaucratic problem, it must be solved. If it's not a bureaucratic problem, you have to tell us, here and today, what's the problem. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u160	I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have decided, at the Conference of Leaders, that they may exceed twice as much as two minutes as they have available to request clarification. And there have already been several Members who have exceeded twice as much time as planned. I wanted to say that in the case of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, I am already used to it! Open... [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]] To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen. Trade union representatives here, it is good to hear Mr. Minister speak again about Public Administration. I hope we have renewed opportunities, because we have a lot to talk about. Today, I want to talk to you about education, the sector of Public Administration where more precariousness has been identified. Therefore, we did not, after we disclosed the e-mail address, which rained e-mails from specialized technicians, i.e. psychologists, social mediators, therapists, who told us that they had no response from the CABs ( Biparty Evaluation Committees ). They have sent their processes and are "to the darkness", they don't know what their future will be like. But there are some things you know, i.e., you have two certainties and a suspect. They are sure that there are groupings that have not responded to the inquiries asked them, they are sure that there are directors who consider temporary what other directors in the same circumstances consider permanent — contrary to what Mr Minister said here about the concept of permanent work to be solid — and they have the suspicion that the threat of municipalization or outsourcing of these workers interferes with PREVPAP. Mr Minister, may I ask you to answer these questions from the workers and also answer a question from the Left Block: when will CAB respond to these specialized technicians? The Government must be aware that it cannot ask these workers to wait, because, for them, patience is not a virtue, it is only to prolong uncertainty and despair. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u162	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, the question that the CFP wants to ask is simple: does the government's view of combating precariousness translate into what is happening at the University of Aveiro, the University of Coimbra and other higher education institutions in that country outside? Is this the perspective, in which all processes of regularization of precarious links are going to be plummeted? How is it explained that not one of the 350 precariouss working at the University of Aveiro has been considered for regularization or that the same has happened to the more than 200 precariouss at the University of Coimbra? We talk about teaching workers, also about non-teachers and researchers who, in several cases, have been in their institution for more than a decade. And it is not by virtue of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, which is intended for postdoctoral students, that these situations are resolved. It's not! Mr. Minister, illegal practices cannot be the rule of contract, either in higher education, science, public administration or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u165	Workers affected by these unacceptable and shameful decisions have been in protest, and quite well, against what they designated as « institutional blindness » or « intellectual dishonesty ». The CFP considers that this is not the way forward, but that the Government has in its hands all the necessary tools to ensure that this programme for the elimination of precarious links is no more than a gigantic cold water bucket for those who are the most skilled workers in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u167	A short time ago, Mr Minister spoke a lot about qualifications and the need for qualifications. So let's start here because we treat these workers with dignity. What we really want to know, Mr Minister, is whether the government will politically solve the problem that has been created in these evaluation committees and what measures it will take, in practice, so that the outcome will not tend to be zero for teachers, researchers and non-teachers of higher education institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u168	To answer this set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have raised me all revolved around similar problems. I will respond to specific cases, but let me, as a whole, remember two notes of methodology, because they are very important for this process. The identification of a precarious employment relationship obliges the crossing of two dimensions: that if we are talking about a permanent need and that is, in addition — and is very important — this permanent need is not being satisfied with a working relationship with an appropriate link, that is, that is, that the link is inadequate. For example, it is true that in areas such as defense, permanent needs are filled with temporary links. A large number of defence professionals have temporary links, providing permanent needs. To clarify what I said recently, when the cases of special careers are analysed, in particular what was most mentioned by the honourable Members. Members in this round, that of science and higher education, if the link is not the right one, there is regularization. There have already been dozens of such situations, in which the link that the teachers had, being able to be included in the Statute of the University's Teacher Career, was being used in a non-regular way, so there were decisions that have already been taken — the process is not yet completed — in this dimension. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, this is a case-by-case analysis, an analysis that involves a lot of information. The more than 350 meetings that I mentioned in my initial speech translate into many, many, many, hundreds and thousands of hours of work, of analysis of concrete situations that have to be decided with a very individual criterion but with a rule that meets all situations in a similar way, so as not to cause situations of discretion. That is why this process is slow, that is why it is very demanding—and it will continue to be demanding until the end—and we will carry out within the period we initially planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u170	That's what we're gonna see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u171	Mrs Joana Mortágua spoke of a specific case that has to do with education, one of the areas where more requirements were received, namely 6895. This area is being strengthened, one of which is later — we have noted — and it is an area to which the Government has given great attention at the moment, given the large number of requests and the delay that is being recorded. There is no particular problem in the area of education in terms of the operation of the CAB, it is only a matter of delay, which is being recovered at this stage. The issues that you are asking us. Members have put a lot to do — and I would like to go back to the beginning of my answer — with the crossing of these two dimensions which have to be checked on a case-by-case basis. This is not a simple process—and this has been mentioned from the outset by the government—but it is a process which is being carried out with enormous rigour and always, always, fulfilling all the precepts, listening, for example, to all the workers who have received unfavorable decisions, and will all be heard before the completion of the process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the third and last round of requests for clarification, and the first of which is from Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u173	Mr President, Minister of Finance, has made it clear in this process that there are numerous permanent needs in the Waters Group of Portugal that are satisfied by the hiring of temporary work enterprises. The President of the Management Board himself confirmed this option in the Committee on the Environment. However, the Left Block has been aware of situations in which these workers are being "stricken to the corner" with the justification of the choice of management for outsourcing of the service. Let us look at the example of EPAL, Minister. Any callcenter operator of this company responds to calls, responds to e-mails and performs administrative tasks related to customer service. These operators have already gone through different temporary work companies, work with this link successively and care in stores when the volume of work is more intense. There are also those who, employed under the same regime, by the same company and with the same professional category, work permanently in the store, alongside employees hired by EPAL itself and who have permanent links, without any intermediary and with better conditions. The shift workers receive the same monthly as those who have fixed hours. Mr Minister, all these workers have received a negative opinion. These people work at the company's headquarters, with resources from the company, at a time defined by the company, following orders and procedures stipulated by the company. Let us see, then, the analysis of the Bipartite Environmental Assessment Committee: « They do not correspond to the permanent need because they do not carry out the mission of the entity and fall within the situations provided for in Article 140. the Labour Code’. We can read the same rationale, but on the contrary, immediately below: « The functions performed are associated with the company's mission and are not falling within Article 140. the Labour Code’. at the same time that these negative opinions are issued, EPAL opens a public contract for hiring a temporary work firm for customer service. The President of the Waters of Portugal uses a word for the definition of this option: « benchmarking». Mr Minister, I give you a synonym: disobedience to the law, a conscious option for precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u175	The question is that these negative opinions can only be approved by the vote of the representatives of the Government in the evaluation committee. Will the Government be consistent with the clear option of the Water Group of Portugal to perpetuate precariousness and disobey the law? What justice is this, Minister? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u176	The next request for clarification is from the CFP. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u177	Mr President, Minister for Finance, it is important to finally resolve the situation of specialized school technicians, who are necessary, who respond to permanent needs and have been in precarious condition for years. Those who have been renewing contracts every year for 5, 10 or 15 years and taking up the same job are not responding to any temporary or transitional needs, but are responding to permanent needs, and this must be a solution to their linkage. More than 1300 specialized technicians await answers to the requests delivered, but more than 4600 operational assistants also await answers to the requests that were delivered. It is not acceptable to continue to postpone the life of these workers, nor is it unacceptable that, while there is a process of regularizing the precarious links, 518 vacancies are open for operational assistants of the responsibility of the Ministry of Education with a right term contract. How do you claim that if you want to combat precariousness and at the same time open yourself to full-time and part-time operational assistants with right-time contracts, Minister? This contradiction must be effectively clarified, because what is being done is to perpetuate the precariousness of operational assistants. The reality of schools shows that operational assistants are effectively missing, but the solution is not to hire some in the morning and others in the afternoon to thus fill the full time. The solution is to resolve, ultimately and quickly, the regularization of the precarious links that exist from the operational assistants and also to hire those that are necessary to respond to existing needs in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u179	Nor is it acceptable, Mr Minister, that while PREVPAP is running in the RTP, in addition to all the slowness of the process, there are workers to be pressured to sign contracts that intend to impose the continuity of their precarious situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u180	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u181	This is a situation that needs to be clarified and, above all, that needs to be tackled, Minister. When will the situation of all these workers be effectively resolved? We cannot hide ourselves in cases or in bureaucracy, because we are talking about the lives of these workers and their families, lives that are interrupted until the answers arrive. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u182	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister, the Government has made a commitment to combat precariousness. Tell us how this coincides with an opinion that is unfavorable to a worker who has submitted a request, that one, where it is so stated: 'Emitting an unfavorable opinion, insofar as, despite the functions he has performed in EPAL correspond to permanent needs, the link held is the appropriate one. "at the same time that it is recognised that it performs permanent functions gives an unfavorable opinion. It's unacceptable! Is this how we intend to combat precariousness? Combating precariousness is a political option. It is therefore necessary for the Government to assume it and to ensure that each permanent need corresponds to an effective bond. They are workers of the callcenter of EPAL ( Portuguese Free Waters Company, SA ), whose service was outsourced. Workers have a contract with a temporary working company, perform functions at EPAL facilities and, recognizedly, supply permanent needs in the company. In addition, these workers are side by side with EPAL workers to perform face-to-face care and account analysis. Mr. Minister, there are 38 workers from the POLIS Programme ( National Programme for Urban Requalification and Environmental Valorization of Cities ), whose powers will be assumed by the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), who have seen their demands for regularization of the link be deferred. Even yesterday, the Minister of the Environment acknowledged the experience and great technical quality of these workers, but, as far as solutions to solving the link problem, nothing added. More is needed, Minister. If the competences of the POLIS programme are to be assumed by APA, if the workers have an enormous technical quality, if they are recognized that these workers perform permanent functions and are required in the Public Administration, why is the regulatory opinion unfavourable? Why are these workers not included in APA staff? They are answers that workers are waiting for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u184	To answer this set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall again the concept of precariousness which is subject to regularization under the Law and therefore this Programme. We need to identify a permanent need that is met with a work relationship with inadequate linkage. It is clear — and I would like to make this very clear — that the Government will never be conjugated by any illegality, that the procedure we are talking about will hear all the workers in the hearing of interested parties and that the final report will be made on the basis of the information that results there, and all the approvals that are coming to take place will, of course, have all this information included and will be taken into account in due course. These situations which the honourable Members refer to are not yet, at this stage, taking these steps in the Programme and we will, of course, be aware of all these circumstances. As Mrs Diana Ferreira knows, we have come to greatly strengthen staff at work in schools, be teachers, be operational assistants, particularly in the current school year. It is clear that the situations that confront me will be analysed in this context and should be considered in a manner appropriate to this procedure. It is a major concern not only to strengthen employment volume, especially in the areas of education and health, as I mentioned in the initial intervention, but also in general in the Public Administration. It is a process we are doing, of which PREVPAP is a very important part but it is not the only one. In the case of RTP, the information I have is that the problems have already been corrected, the issues raised in the RTP have already been corrected ; in any case, the concrete situation would be of no contractual value, because a standard that leads workers to abdicate rights has no legal effect and therefore legal effect. But the information I have is the one I have just mentioned and it will certainly be an outdated solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u186	We're on to the interventions. Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process we are discussing today was born and developed within the framework of the current parliamentary majority, and the Left Block is proud of the work, of the collective elaboration, of the contribution it has made and of the brand left in the law that today prevails for the linkage of the precariouss of the Public Administration. We assume it entirely! It's a law for a complex process, for a tough process. That is why we dedicated ourselves to the details, and that is also why the Law clearly defines concrete questions about internships, about the outsourcing regime, about the special careers of the Public Administration and makes clear the way forward in each of these particular cases. We have done the « homework», we have a good law and we have to apply it well. This Law is also the guide to the linkage of the precariouss of the authorities, and that has been mentioned very little today, in this debate. The right, which awarded for the absence in all this process with regard to Public Administration,... [[And very well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u188	... is also absent in the field of authorities, voted against — in fact, votes against almost always in situations where it has to be decided by opening procedures for linking precariouss. But the Socialist Party has also had an unconsistent attitude in this particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u189	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u190	Keep working together!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u191	Now, by addressing the Socialist Party and not so much the members of the government, I would like to mention that in Guimarães, or in Barcelos, or in such important authorities as that of Sintra or Leiria, the Socialist Party voted against the opening of processes for the regularization of precariouss as those we are discussing today. It would be important for the Socialist Party, as such, to look at the way in which the linkage of precariouss should be developed in the local administration. There are a number of questions which were raised at the beginning of this debate by the Left Block and which are still to be clarified at this time. So I would like to put them back so that we can still have the chance to see them clarified today. First of all, I ask: how can the delay of the process be reduced? What measures does the government take to recover lost time? Does the government or not intend to do the evaluation committees to give them more speed in the process? Will the Government launch — and if so, when — tenders from these 9000 cases which have already been approved or are ready, with a positive opinion from the evaluation committees, for approval? Secondly, as regards the issue of contract security and the way in which workers who have been fired due to the present delay, those workers whose protection clause is not being applied, what measure does the Government intend to take to ensure that the law will be complied with in this particular case? Will the government order service leaders to resume contracts that have been terminated because tenders have not yet been opened? This is a concern which the Left Block has and which I would also like to see clarified in this debate. We are concerned about Mr. Minister for Finance's response to higher education. In essence, the Minister reiterated the Rectors Council's argument that the process of extraordinary regularization of precarious links in public administration is not the appropriate instrument for special careers in higher education. Mr Minister, this is not a new subject, it has been deeply worked, in common with the Minister, with the Minister of Labour, finally with the Government, during the process of preparing this Law. Today, when we look at the Law, we find that in its article 2. the, is written and I will quote: « This law covers persons who exercise or have performed functions that correspond to the functional content of general or special careers and who satisfy the permanent needs of the bodies or services covered by the General Labour Law (...) as well as...» — the Law is even more specific — «... of public higher education institutions of a fundamental nature (...) ». That is, all institutions of higher education, whether of a foundational or not nature, all careers, general or special, of all institutions of higher education are covered by the law of PREVPAP and it is the instrument for the regularization of these bonds that are currently maintained in the greatest precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, Minister Mário Centeno, if the law is this, the only question that remains to be answered is whether there is a permanent need and whether the link is appropriate. These are the issues that Mr Minister has put as criteria, are our criteria, are the criteria of the Law and this is the Law that should allow the regularization of the deficiencies in higher education! We cannot have in Portuguese universities, as much as the principals so wish, an offshore of precariousness in the Public Administration, in the State. On the stage, the question is whether, in relation to those procedures which have been rejected by the evaluation committees under the claim that the scope for PREVPAP had not yet included them in the framework of the binding, processes which have, on the part of the heads of service, a positive opinion, the various ministries will or will not call upon them to approve them, as provided for in the Law, and concrete orders will be given by the Government, for that to be the procedure. With regard to internships, it is very important that workers be given the assurance that even if the evaluation committees have not been competent to make a decision, the positive opinion of the heads of the services is sufficient for the government to call them to you. The same applies to outsourcing. We have several cases, hundreds of complaints, of outsourcing workers who are not seeing their recognized links. I return to the criterion of the Law which Mr Mário Centeno also referred to in the intervention: is there a permanent need? Is the bond appropriate? When the question is this, the answer is simple and often—as in the example given by Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, with regard to the Waters Group of Portugal—is the evaluation committee itself that recognizes that the need is permanent and then says that outsourcing is a sort of parenthesis in the Law and that it should not be contemplated. It's wrong! The Law provides, with all the letters, that outsourcing, where it corresponds to permanent needs, is not an appropriate link. So we have to answer these cases. The question I am leaving is whether, in those cases where there were adverse decisions, the Government will recognise that these were the wrong answers to a problem that needs a correct answer. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following again: there are thousands of workers who believe in this process, they are right to believe in this process because they have the law on their side. Today, we are being strict in the enforcement of a law which must pride the Members who have approved it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u192	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u193	May the Assembly of the Republic devote all its best attention to developing this process and ensure that, in the end, we can look into the eyes of the precarious workers who, over the years, were victims of the ill-treatment of the State, in which the State acted not as a good person, but as the worst of the bosses without scruples.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u194	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u195	These workers deserve that the Assembly of the Republic can, at the end of this process, look at them and say: "What we promised, the law has been fulfilled, the best criteria and the highest standards of respect for the letter and the spirit of the law have been applied and no one has stayed behind. Do not keep on seeking. ” Leave no one behind was always, and from the very beginning, the concern of the Left Block, and it will be so until the last day of this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u196	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Until yesterday, and until this morning, the headquarters of the Long Mouse will have served for the tests of the Left Block, the PS and the PCP. [[PS laughter.]] Today, this afternoon, Parliament serves to get the actors on stage. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u198	The Left Block is even proud of the work together...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u200	...and the law is good, said Mr. Jorge Costa recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u201	And it's really a good law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u202	Which means, after all, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this appeal to the Government, with so much satisfaction revealed on your part? Oh, my God! Which means, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These parties — PS, Left Block and PCP — have long lost the notion of real.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u203	The honourable Member is also well known for her crack interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u204	The PSD Parliamentary Group presents itself in this debate, firmly and convincingly, in the denunciation of chaos and confusion. We will denounce the technical and legal aberrations and the enormous frustration that comes from the workers, the services of the Public Administration, and also from the citizens and companies that use them every day. Let's get started. I begin with a special greeting to all workers holding precarious links to serve in the State,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u205	Well, you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u206	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they create conditions for the Member to intervene. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u207	... a greeting to all who have been promised by this government integration into the State. To all we address a word of solidarity and understanding for the revolt that you feel today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u209	... by having spent almost two and a half years on the functions of this government — PS, the Left Block and the PCP — and the realization of this integration has been on the way. We felt your frustration. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u210	It was more than reasonable that, in view of what is happening with the promised Programme, we would be present today at the end of this duality of the Left Block, in this kind of account that defends the workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u211	It's just that we're really defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u212	...but, after all, defend and protect the government at all costs, even against the workers themselves. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the Communist Party must assume their responsibilities. If you want to show courage and responsibility, you must resign from this game, you must resign from this responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u213	Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u214	... to be the Government's mule. The controversy, stagnation, lack of clarity and transparency around this process of integration of workers with precarious links in the state is serious, it is very serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u215	Dr. Rui Rio must not have read this speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u216	It is serious, it is very serious, for leaving in suspense life projects of workers and their families,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u217	I'm coming from who's coming! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u218	... that so far await the promised integration. They started by burning expectations — see! — 112 000 workers. They have reduced them, but today these expectations are still maintained in 31,957 workers who have submitted a requirement for integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u219	You've been against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u220	Some workers still stay at work, others wait at home and others are fired. It's serious, it's very serious! You better be careful, Mr. José Moura Soeiro. It's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u221	You don't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u222	It is serious, it is very serious the action of a government that says it wants to integrate but then fire. It's serious, it's very serious the action of a government that announces a plan to combat precariousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u223	You've been against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u224	...but after all, it increases precariousness. See that the study of the Observatory on Inequalities, released today, reports that we have today more precarious, the highest of the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u225	Ah! They don't remember that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u226	It is serious, it is very serious that the country has a Prime Minister who, in all the 15-year debates, under the threat of Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, continues to promise the integration of each of the 31 957 workers who have submitted a request, without ever having referred to the budgetary impact on public accounts. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many of the fellows, trainees, workers in employment-inclusion contracts have been and are being paid for Community funding and their integration will now have to be supported by our Budget. Nothing against it! But the government had to do the math, and it didn't! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in good time, when the PSD warned about this budgetary impact, for the absence of a true diagnosis of staff needs in the Public Administration and for the false expectations that were being created to the workers, they said that we were against their integration. Liar! We can handle that label well! And today, workers today have proof that our alerts make sense. The government means that there is no money to support the integration of much of these workers, there are delays, the competitions were not launched in January, as promised, and these parties also prepare to attribute guilt to trade unions that are part of the two-party evaluation committees,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u227	That's it! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u228	... that are trying to respond to workers' demands. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not follow any attempt to accuse us in this regard and we will denounce it, because from the outset the representatives of the workers called for lack of information for the analysis of the proceedings and called for a lack of uniformity of procedures between the various evaluation committees. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Service leaders have not been properly involved in this process and fears are evident. The manager fears the presence of the worker with a precarious bond, and the worker, in turn, fears that the manager does not consider him to take advantage of integration. The manager testifies to the precariousness and the evaluation committees, below, respond to the worker denying this condition. Look at that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the contradiction of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u229	What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u230	And that's it! The Government has ruled out the lack of clarity, lack of objectivity and lack of transparency throughout the process. Still this week, we were aware that several health professionals from various services in the north of the country were fired and, for these functions, new professionals were hired. Do you know what the government's strategy was? It was to reduce the precariousness by redeploying the newly admitted ones, for now, they still do not have enough time to be counted in the figures of the precariouss of this government. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To finish, just go to the beginning of my intervention and repeat again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u231	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u232	...nothing better than to repeat again. [[PS laughter.]] It is true that I will repeat: the chaos and lack of thought, rigor and seriousness, the political opportunism — plus — of those who want to rule at all costs with the support of minorities, the enormous frustration of all, of all workers, of public services, which await a serious modernisation that helps them to face the future of work and the new answers that citizens and businesses demand from them every day. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you clearly that the Government solution we have today does not govern for the Portuguese, nor does it govern for the workers. Today and in the future, Portuguese and workers can count on the PSD! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u233	That was a good joke! You can count on the vote against the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u234	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not only record entries for requests for clarification to the honourable Member, nor does it register any further requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] Meanwhile, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party was registered. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I wanted to reject completely the terms and content of the intervention made by the PSD bench,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u236	... but, as Mr President said, the expressions made were usual in this House, I will also use them. Pantominice means intrusion and intrusion is what the right-wing government has done for four years to the workers and citizens of this country. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] Without shame and shame, for four years it damaged and intruded most of the Portuguese people. But we understand: now, you see yourself in the mirror and, like nothing you have to say about this matter, because you have not submitted a proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u237	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u238	... because they have rejected everything and because they love the precariousness in which workers live, the only thing they can bring to this debate is the lowest moment, even here, of a debate that should be raised. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And I add that it is not the young socialists who are at stake—no! — the insult was for all young Portuguese people who are currently fighting with adverse conditions,... [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] ... that they suffer, every day, with precarious conditions in their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u240	But after this intervention from the PSD bench, which, I don't know, may have been given on another planet, I will focus on PREVPAP, because I confess that I did not understand the context of that intervention. I would like to say the following: precariousness is, in fact, always a matter of priority for the PS Government's campaign and programme. Putting the points ii, without PS there would be no PREVPAP and therefore the political responsibility is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We know, of course, that we have done so with the support of the left parties, but I repeat, the political responsibility is this government, and this government is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is obvious that what is at issue is a different view of society and how we should manage the Public Administration. What they wanted to do for the PSD and the CDS for four years was to devalue, reject, exclude, humiliate the workers of the Public Administration and we, the Socialist Party, on the contrary, what we have as a view of society is that there are no quality public services without the valorization of the workers of the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] So what we want is to integrate them, to include them, to dignify and not reject a human capital indispensable to quality public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u242	It is clear that what the right has done, during the four years of its government, was to copy the worst practices of the worst private companies and apply them in the Public Administration. That's what they did.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u243	And what does your government do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u244	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, well the PSD can change leader, well the PSD can change leader parliament, because as long as it does not change policies, language, or its look at society the PSD will always be the ultra-liberal PSD of Dr. Passos Coelho! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's obvious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that democracy is a difficult exercise, it is a very demanding exercise and perhaps we all recognize it more quickly. It is obvious that it is much easier to do as I did on the right: it carried a button and, one day to the other, "take another five hours of work per week for each worker" — much better, it does not take any time! [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u245	Why don't you talk to the Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u246	It is much easier to make a decree, to change holidays, to cut salaries, to cut pensions, to bring unpredictableness to people's lives. All this is fascilimo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u247	All right! [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u248	We do not have this view of society. We believe that we have to do a shared process, because it is essential that it be shared, that it be consistent, that it be transparent, in essence, that it be democratic and, above all, that it be done well. That's our goal, and that's what we're doing. And I must tell you, with all sincerity, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you like or dislike each other, we will not move one millimeter away from the path we have been pursuing, because this is the way of the Socialist Party's Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u249	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, on behalf of her speech, allow me to give an explanation to the House. The role of the President of the Assembly is to conduct the work, not to be censored. So I don't evaluate the best or the worst taste of each's interventions. I believe that the Bureau's intervention should be justified only when they are at issue, let us say, personal attacks on the honour of the Members. from a political point of view, everyone will say what they understand, but allow me, Mrs Deputies, to stress something to you, since Mrs Roseta is not here: I may not like the expression that has been used, but I have often heard the expressions'stolen' and'stolent' being used in this House without having been so concerned by Mrs Roseta. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: It is natural that some of the interventions we have heard here today want so much to refer to the past. And when the Socialist Party wants to refer back to the past, it's because the present doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u252	What we are doing here today is monitoring, is questioning the action of the government. the Government is responsible for governing and the Assembly of the Republic is responsible for monitoring. The CDS in good time denounced its disagreement with various aspects of this Government plan supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u253	It's not disagreement, it's vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u254	We said, for example, that, in our view, two contracts or two partial relations should not always correspond to one whole time, because this would lead to the dismissal of one person.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u255	Say more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u256	We said we were against that. We are also opposed to saying that whenever a worker did not wish to adhere to this plan and this proposal from the Government this should not correspond to the termination of a contract, to dismissal. We said that, and Mrs Wanda Guimarães knows that we voted against this Government proposal, which the Left Block voted in favour. That is, for the Left Block and for the Socialist Party, whenever anyone did not want to join this plan, he should simply be fired. We on the CDS are against that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u257	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u258	We're not going behind your demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u259	But it's inevitable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this time of debate, express a huge disappointment. And it is not a huge disappointment just for those who criticized this plan, it is a huge disappointment even for those who supported it and are proud of it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be enough to pay attention to these facts: this is a plan that identifies 116 000 temporary links,... [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u260	Not all temporary precarious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u261	... number that some Members on the left have said to be probably cautious, because there should be more; then there are 31 000 workers presenting themselves and asking for their accession to this plan; finally, what we have, Mrs and others. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 8000 workers are benefiting from this plan. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I mean, I'm sure we've all seen smaller mountains pair larger rats. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u262	This is a mountain that gave birth to a mouse and that has not at least corresponded to what they propose. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth deceiving reality, it is not just this plan that is bad. The statistical summary of public employment was also released in February. E — please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who support this government! — do you know what the evolution of temporary contracts has been from the fourth quarter of 2015 to today? We know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? There were more than 12,000 final contracts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u263	You don't mean anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u264	I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do they not include the precarious ones, as they say they were going to do, as they are booming the precarious ones in the Public Administration and closing their eyes to this reality, because they do not want to see. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members — and I conclude, Mr President — the Left Block announced to the country, in scattered posters, that it would « turn the page of precariousness». For we have heard today here the confession that you are not being able to turn the page of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u265	You heard me wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u266	On the contrary, precariousness is worsening, as the Observatory of Inequality has said today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u267	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u268	So we just have to make an invitation to the Left Block, and now to the PCP: join us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u269	That's not it! Stay for the next one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u270	Let's turn the page of this government, which is what the country needs! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u271	That's all we needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u272	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The fight against precariousness in public administration does not run out of this mechanism. In fact, there are situations that are running in parallel to the process of regularization of bonds that have to have an effective response.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u275	Therefore, we do not accept that, on the one hand, we fight precariousness with the use of PREVPAP and, on the other hand, we maintain the term contract either in the National Health Service, either in the RTP (Radio and Television de Portugal ), or in the public school. That's not acceptable. We understand that PREVPAP is important, it is a moment that cannot be wasted on its effects. All opportunities should be approved to regularize the situation of all workers who respond to permanent needs, which does not prevent all situations of long-term recruitment, false green receipts, situations of recourse to temporary work enterprises to meet permanent needs from having no response either. I would say that the PCP does not exhaust its intervention and its commitment to PREVPAP, while the PSD and CDS neither the PREVPAP nor any other mechanism to combat precariousness. [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, Mr. CDS, it does not count on the CFP in this fight because the workers in this country do not have the CSD in the fight against precariousness, they do not have the CFP. And we will indeed continue in this fight. Mr Minister for Finance, Minister for Labour, Polish workers, EPAL workers ( Portuguese Free Waters Company, S.A. ) , the specialized technicians of the public school, the nurses hired in time, the teachers of higher education, the trainees of the research centers respond to permanent needs, must have an effective contract. This is a compromise that needs to be taken up here today, because in fact this process has to make an effective link to a permanent job. [[PCP applause.]] The defence of workers' rights, the valuing of work cannot only be in statements, it must be translated into practice. And this process of combating precariousness must be translated into practice, into the business sector of the State and into all public services. That is what the CFP will continue to defend, and that is what the struggle of workers will impose. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u276	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros. Madam Member, I would like to remind you that you have only 53 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the conclusion of this debate, I wanted to leave two things clear here. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we were very pleased by the honourable Member to have listened very carefully to our speech. It is a pleasure for us to have been heard with that attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u278	That's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u279	And it is also a pleasure for us that Mrs Wanda Guimarães has made it clear, in this Parliament, who are the creators of this huge wave of frustration that is going through the workers holding precarious links.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u280	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u281	The creators of this huge wave of frustration are the government, as here was quite explicit, the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party. Everyone is proud of this work together, but today the Left Block reveals here the greatest spectacle of all time in this matter. I also wanted to tell you that you can always count on the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u282	To vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u283	...for what we have always said from the beginning: that we are in favour of combating precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u284	They're against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u285	I repeat, Mr President, we are in favour of the fight against precariousness, but never, as we said from the outset, with the methodology presented here. [[PCP protests.]] It is without doubt a technical and legally limited methodology, as it will be possible to verify in the future; it is a methodology that does not present accounts or budgetary impacts to Portuguese; it is a methodology that creates many and many injustices. For all this it is that I once again had to repeat what I just said, making clear the position of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u286	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Opposition parties, in particular the PSD, have classified this program of regularization of precarious links in public administration as chaos. For the PSD, opening a process of regularization of precarious links strongly participated by public administration workers, with two-party commissions, with the presence of unions, with the right of all public administration workers to deliver their request to see the situation evaluated is chaos. The PSD, like the general opposition, prefers to this chaos the void. If we give ourselves to the work—it is true that it is a work of historical review—to read carefully the program that both parties, PSD and CDS presented to this House and that it has been sunk, we did not find a single reference to the fight against precariousness in the Public Administration. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] Looking for the words 'precarious' and 'worker of the state' linked has a result—there are instruments to do this search, such as the others. Ladies and gentlemen, we know — zero! The gentlemen. Members and the parties represented here had no intention of fighting, of countering precariousness in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u288	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u289	And they didn't have because the policy they always defended was an increase in that same precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The ladies and gentlemen. Members have here minimized the work that has been done with demands, rigour and participation by the two-party committees. They have forgotten the role of workers, even those who do not recognize the right to change their employment bond, and the right they have to present a resource at all levels and at all levels. This is a legally strong process and not a legally confusing process. But what counts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are workers who are seeing their rights recognized, and they are already to the thousands. They say those who have created precariousness as a rule that is few, but, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give an example that is perhaps too parish because it is from the Ministry of Labour, which I know best. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] And I have a number, Mrs Carla Barros : they have now been recognized with links to be transformed into the Ministry of Labour 950 workers. It's a process that's changing every day. This number, of course, compares with the absence of regularization of precarious links in previous years. But compared to something else, Mr. Members: compared to the 613 workers who were considered surpluses in the Ministry of Labour by the governments that you have supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There were 603 workers and workers who were considered indispensable because their skills did not fit the functions of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u290	And some with disabilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u291	I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have all these workers recognized their right to work and return to public administration, as well as they are being recognized their right to an appropriate link to the work they are developing. If this is the chaos, Mrs Carla Barros, it is well preferable to empty and profound damage to the stability and expectations of public administration workers which is synonymous with your policy and your options. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u292	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the closing stage of this request to the Government. The first intervention is the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It would be easy, perhaps too simple, to remember, at the close of this debate, the poor conscience of the right in the entire process of regulating precariousness. The right-wing contribution, PSD and CDS, would be able-CL to sum up the number of proposals they have made to change, improve, debate this diploma: zero! But that's not true, because the precarious and precarious public administration know well that, if it were zero, at least it wouldn't be so bad their lives. PSD and CDS not only did they not want to regulate their functions, as they were the ones who increased the state's precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u294	It's fake! Look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u295	Therefore, in its history, there is a huge guilt in creating precarious situations. It is not surprising, then, that they are always against any law that seeks to recognize rights, because its governance has always been based on the rights of workers and workers in particular: cutting wages, reducing overtime and ensuring that precariousness was increasingly becoming law, shooting at the increasing precariousness of workers and workers. This plea was not to demand from the right that it be different from what it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u296	So what was it for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u297	It wasn't to wait, even, on the right something else constructive. Don't! We know that we have nothing to expect from them not to be precarious, which is the form of job creation that they want to impose on the Public Administration. This interpellation has served, and serves, to ensure that on the side of those who want to combat precariousness in the state there is no train to stay behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u298	What a laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u299	We want to ensure that the ongoing process will arrive in time for those and those who, legitimately, are waiting for it. So the first question we put on the table was: why? Why, sirs. Ministers, how late? And why has there already been hundreds of workers who have seen a positive decision on their specific case, is the government not responding to this delay by opening the tenders that the law provides for? Why? That is the answer that I hope the Minister of Labour can give here, because it is essential to continue what the law provides. Why are there boycotts in the evaluation committees? And because of the fact that these boycotts exist, sometimes the government does not know which side it is on. This is because we know — we have already said it and I will remind you again — that there is a majority on the side of the unions and the members of the government in these evaluation committees. Therefore, if we recognize that there are institutions, departments, public entities in which their leaders are relevant to the law, evaluation committees exist to ensure that the law is complied with. So why doesn't that happen sometimes? [[Congratulations from BE.]] That's the requirement we put on the table. Mr. Minister for Finance spoke in strict and demanding terms. We accept no less than that in the application of the law: rigour and demand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u300	Lion entrance, path exit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u301	That is why, by claiming these two fundamental values, we do not understand what the government itself is like, through the Minister of Finance, which tells us that higher education institutions can, after all, be an ally to the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u302	And what does the Block do? Oh, my God! Support a government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u303	They can't! The law states, expressly and clearly, that institutions of higher education, whether of a foundational or not, are obliged to comply with the law. But, more than that, how can we say that we are against precariousness and then follow arguments like the one presented here by the Board of Rectors and which has already become public? There are directors who say — and I quote, to make it clear — that «high turnover is a virtue of the university». But, curiously, they are not applied to this high turnover! Has this high turnover ever prevented so many researchers and teachers from participating in various universities, in various research centres? He never stopped it! It is bad will of the rectors to deny others what they have: stability in their contractual bond. We do not accept this and do not agree with it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] A parliamentary group that takes itself seriously does what the Constitution commands to do, i.e. to monitor the executive action, from which we have called on the Government to look forward to, face-to-face, saying that it is still in time to correct these delays, to correct these boycotts and to ensure that the law is properly applied. There is still time to say that the internships should be considered as precarious work that should be regularized when it is for permanent functions. It is still time to say — it has the power to do so in the evaluation committees — that the scholarships and researchers, the university teachers who are in a precarious situation can and should see their bond guaranteed. It is still time to ensure that evaluation committees do not leave anyone in limbo or unemployment or lack of response. It is still time to make what the left has raised and made a majority in this Parliament true in the lives of people: a life without precariousness, a job with rights and a state that is not worse than the worst employers. That's our fight, and that's where we don't lower our arms. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u304	To close the debate, the Government has the floor, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It ends here this appeal to the Government, but does not end the work of regularizing the precarious links in the Public Administration. It does not end, because it results from a double commitment which has been made here before the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the country. It was a commitment from the Government Programme, in fact coming directly from the Socialist Party's electoral programme and a commitment from this majority, which was subsequently renewed at various times. It is a commitment that is expressed — and I quote — in the limitation of the use by the precarious working State with a clear policy of regulating the use of forms of temporary contracts, occupational-type programmes or other inappropriate forms of employment in the Public Administration. However, I would like to remind you that, moreover, this commitment is part of a more global commitment to combat precariousness in Portuguese society as a whole. It is true that we are still far from achieving these objectives, but it is also true for those who know how to read the numbers, that we have been making progress in improving stability in the labour market in Portugal. We must move towards a global struggle towards the excessive precariousness of labour relations in our country, and the state, as an employer, can only give the most significant example. This regularisation programme is innovative, I said it recently. It is innovative because, after 20 years when there has been no credible instrument for regulating precarious links, it comes back to dealing clearly with this problem, and it does so in an original way, with a wide openness to the participation of workers and services and to the scrutiny of society as a whole. This debate which is taking place here today and which seems to surprise some banks is a debate that is part of this process, because the debate on the ways in which the policies of this government are implemented is an irrevocable debate: it has begun on the first day of this legislature and will continue until the last day of this process, with clarity and with no tibias. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is obvious that there may be different interpretations of how to apply the laws. There have always been different interpretations, but what I wanted to make clear here as a government commitment is the following: the government, in the two-party committees, as in this whole process, will always struggle for the full application of the whole law, of all legislation, whether the specific legislation governing PREVPAP are the laws governing the functioning of the Public Administration and of our collective life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, sir. Members, we do not confuse temporary hiring, which, in some cases, the legislation of the Public Administration allows and even advises, with abusive use of this temporary form of link with the aim of creating precariousness, instability and even reducing the response capacity of the Public Administration. Yes, we will fully comply with the law that has been passed here, we will meet the objectives we have assumed. In 2018, we will integrate all those who are in a position to be integrated into a definitive bond in Public Administration. We will give all the information and strengthen the information mechanisms to workers, whether they are appreciated or have already been in the two-party committees, or others that will be integrated through other legal procedures. We will give full information of all your rights, but, essentially, what we will do with this process is integrate it into a set of policies for valuing work and work in the Public Administration. No, we will not continue outsourcing for the precariousness of essential functions of the State, as happened not long ago in our country. No, we will not reproduce a policy of wage devaluation, devaluation of rights, devaluation of the function of State servants, public administration workers. That is our commitment and that is what we have done. That is why in each of the precarious workers who have turned their bond into definitive, not temporary, not precarious, in each of them we will be fulfilling our Programme, our requirements and we will be honouring our commitments. And it will be thousands, it will be all those who are in the conditions that the law provides. This is our commitment and will be fulfilled, just as we have done with respect to the replacement of wages, tax amendments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u306	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u307	... at working hours, working hours, holidays, all the dimensions of revalorization of the Public Administration that are integral to our policy and strategy of economic recovery, of modernization of our country and of dignity of work. This is our policy, this is our commitment and we will take it to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u308	Thank you very much, Minister. This is how this debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emilia Santos, to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have taken part in the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following initiatives: Bill No 112 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the mission and tasks of the National Crime Victim Support Commission, which falls to 1. the Commission ; draft law No 797 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the rules for the conclusion of the contract in the case of workers seeking the first and long-term unemployed ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 1369 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Movements by the President of the Republic to the foreign country ( President of the HR ) and 1385 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a plan for improving the National Health Service ( PS ) ; and finally Parliamentary assessment No 55 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 of 26 February, which defines the legal regime of postgraduate medical training, designated as medical boarding, and establishes the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ) should be followed. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-07.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, at 3 p.m., and will have as a working order a positive agenda of the PSD, which is a debate on economy and employment under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. I wish you a good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The work is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
