ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is a marking of the Left Block with the general discussion of Bill No. 914 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — New Basic Health Law ( BE). Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Praise of progress and social justice, the National Health Service ( SNS) will contribute decisively to change the face of this country and to give a new dimension to the future that we want freer, fairer and more fraternal. This is how António Arnaut presented, on December 19, 1978, in this same Assembly, the bill that created the National Health Service. And he was right, we know, 40 years later! With the SNS, Portugal won the future, freedom, social justice, fraternity. We have won all and, it is more than just a word of thanks to Antonio Arnaut and to all those who, with him and like him, have made the SNS possible: first-hour supporters, those who have continued to defend him and health professionals, without whom the SNS would not be materializable. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We want to leave a word of thanks to Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo who have worked on a new law of bases to save and strengthen the SNS and which is the basis of the left block bill we discussed today. The Left Block announced in January that it would bring this proposal to discussion. We discuss it in public sessions throughout the country. We presented a preliminary draft in April, we put it on the public debate until the beginning of June. We collect dozens of contributions. It is now time to discuss here so that we can, still within this legislature, have a new basic law that strengthens the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Health Service brought unquestionable gains to the country. Still, the SNS always had its enemies. PSD and CDS voted against its creation. They argued that the State should not provide health care and that the offer should be exclusively private — paid by taxpayers, of course! Public SNS enemies, general, universal and free, PSD and CDS approved a basic law in 1990 which was an adjustment of accounts with April 25th. About this law, António Arnaut wrote: "It must be replaced, because it has reversed constitutional philosophy." With it, legal conditions were created for future privatization of the SNS through conventional medicine, the possibility of business management and incentives to health insurance. The idea was to make health a market and serve it as a tray to the private. The greed was, in fact, quite explicit when it was written that it was up to the State to support the development of the private sector, and to that end it could sacrifice health professionals, capacity for hospitalization and financial resources. The result of the 1990 law, the PSD and the CDS, is in sight of: public-private partnerships(PPP) that divert resources from the State budget to the Mello Group or to the Health Light ; almost 500 million euros per year to leverage private groups that then discarnate the SNS ; purposely and deliberate loss of response capacity in the SNS units to justify the contractualization of beds, surgeries, of complementary means of diagnosis and treatment to the private. About 40 % of the annual SNS budget will go right for privates. It is EUR 3726 million per year that could be invested in the SNS and are not. They serve to buy private services that SNS could do with better quality and capacity. While health is a business, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, while what is at the centre of health policy is the interest of half a dozen groups that parasitize the Public Budget, users will always be harmed. Doctors, nurses, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, health care assistants will be missing. There'll be no technology. The waiting lists will be large, the insufficient beds, the complementary means of obsolete diagnosis. That is why the Left Block challenges: this is the time to have courage; it is time to establish health as a right and close the door to those who want to make health a business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u4	We need a new basic law to build a strong and capable SNS, which responds with speed and quality, which recovers the idea of a general, universal and free service and at the same time allows the modernization of health care and adaptation to technological and demographic challenges. We need a new basic law that places health promotion, disease prevention and the health paradigm at the centre as an objective to be observed in all areas of public policy. It is not enough to use these principles as a jargon and then not to spend more than 1 % of the Budget as it happens today. If we want an SNS with the future, and for the future, we need to have a SNS that acts in health and not only in the disease. We need a new basic law to remove barriers that continue to prevent thousands of people from accessing health care. In 2017, two million consultations and treatments were to be held because users had no money to pay moderate fees or non-emergency transportation. The basic law must guarantee a free SNS and without access barriers. Yes, we need a new basic law that guides health care to the users and not to the incomes of the Health Light or the Mello Group. We must make it clear that any unit inserted into the National Health Service will have solely public management. We need a new basic law that makes it clear between the public and the private and that it fights promiscuity between sectors that everyone knows exists. The SNS should be the primary provider of health care and the private will be, in their relationship with the SNS, purely supplicative, never competitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u6	We cannot continue to degrade the SNS to justify the expenditure of EUR 1200 million annually with conventions or other subcontractors. This money is public and should stay in the National Health Service. We need a new basic law, yes, to dignify and value health professionals, guaranteeing them the link to the SNS, the right to career, the right to career progression, something that is not at least guaranteed today. Consider the case of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, today again on strike, whose fight we salute, because it is a struggle for the SNS. You see the fair demand of health care workers to regain their careers. We see the destruction of medical careers, which threw out the experienced and differentiated professional SNS. We have to have careers to have a professional body dedicated exclusively to the National Health Service. Yes, the new basic law should provide for and promote the exclusive dedication of health professionals. We need a new basic law to have more investment in the SNS. Health policy cannot be subordinated to economic cycles or political wills. If this continues, governments such as the PSD and the CDS can continue to exist, which cut more than EUR 1000 million in the SNS, denying the right to health to many users. For more investment, we must make it clear, as the Left Block does, that the State should provide the public health services with the human, technical and financial resources necessary to carry out its functions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And it's not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, pull the swindled argument that there is no money! If there is no money to run banks or to support the business of economic groups in health, then for the most part, there will be no money to build a SNS that guarantees all health care to all people living in this country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we want a basic law for the coming decades that allows a stronger SNS and makes health a right, then a new law of bases cannot be just a cosmetic exercise or a mere word play. It must be what the SNS needs it to be: clear in the separation between the public and the private; clear in the fight against promiscuity and in the business that terminates the public service; clear in terms of freeness, as regards investment, as regards the valorization of its professionals. in the background, the new basic law must clearly state that at the center of health policy are the users rather than the boards of administration of economic groups who want to sit at the budget table of the National Health Service. This is the requirement of the country and the population: a good National Health Service to have again, in the words of Antonio Arnaut, a dimension of the future, of freedom, justice and fraternity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u7	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of three Members to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u8	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u9	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Marcelino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, I have listened carefully to your statement. Having heard of the proposal of the Left Block, but also of the conclusions of the working group appointed by the Government this week, I believe I can say that it is more than that which separates them. Mr António Arnaut and João Semedo invoked. Like them, the Left Block and the Socialist Party want a better SNS, adapted to the current, more efficient, more effective times, that serves better Portuguese and Portuguese, and also as Mr.Deputy said, put Portuguese and Portuguese in the center of the National Health Service. The Government has its own timetable and is preparing a bill that is expected to reach Parliament — indeed, there is this compromise — in September. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the Government and the Socialist Party are not afraid of the existence of other proposals — it is natural that they exist — that the Government and the Socialist Party are not afraid of dialogue and seeking consensus because that is the way to convergence and a stronger SNS. Being the Government, the Left Block and the Socialist Party available to make this path to solutions and consensus, my question is: how far is the Left Block available to go in dialogue and in convergence with the Socialist Party? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u11	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, as well as you have pointed out, the right to health is a fundamental right and access to health care, which was implemented through the National Health Service, is an important achievement in April. In fact, with the National Health Service, we were able to substantially improve health indicators in Portugal, improve the health and quality of life of Portuguese. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to defend and strengthen the National Health Service. But this is not possible with the policies and cuts that have weakened it over decades, but with a particular focus during the PSD/CDS-PP government, as also mentioned by Mr Deputy, and well. In fact, in this respect it is important not to lose sight of these long and painful four years of PSD/CDS-PP government, during which, and very clearly and unequivocally, the options taken, including decisions relating to the closure of health services throughout the country, the effort to push health costs for users and also the decisions that promoted and promoted the privatization/ concession of public-management hospitals, without concealing concerns or priorities in favour of the private sector's health interests, ended up bringing chaos and despair to the National Health Service. There is, therefore, much to do, and at all levels, to return Portuguese access to health care. It is therefore necessary to develop mechanisms that place people at the center of the system and that can reduce inequalities in access to health, inequalities both at the level of quality, optimizing resources to promote improved management and health care, as well as at the level of efficiency, stimulating the ability to obtain more and better results through governance instruments and participatory mechanisms in the management of the National Health Service. And if it is true that many of the problems faced by the National Health Service today do not depend only on the Health Bases Act, it is also true that a Health Bases Act to think about people represents a fundamental instrument that can in many ways contribute to strengthening the National Health Service and thus remove barriers to access to health care by Portuguese. In other words, what we believe is that a Health Bases Act will, of course, have to guarantee or ensure the necessary financial resources for its full functioning. Therefore, it is necessary to break the subfinance cycle that the National Health Service has been suffering and that has been dramatically reflected, not only at the level of technical means, but also at the level of health professionals or the lack of health professionals. Health professionals who, in fact, must work in decent conditions and with rights. Then you will have to promote users' access to health care and, above all, you will have to ensure that Portuguese people do not stop accessing health care for economic reasons. in this regard, it is of particular relevance to the need not only to eliminate the moderate rates, which, strictly speaking, are not moderate, but also to pay for the non-emergency transport of patients, subjects on which, moreover, the Greens have already presented legislative initiatives. Finally, Mr President, Moses Ferreira — and it is on this matter that my request for clarification has to do with this — one of the issues which for the Greens is of greater relevance to the reality that is installed and which points to the trend where health is less and less a right and more and more a business. It is here that, in our view, lies one of the main reasons for the current situation of the National Health Service and that is why we consider this matter to be a central element in the discussion around the National Health Service and the Health Bases Act. We are talking, of course, of the various mechanisms used to fatten the private market with health interests and of public-private partnerships ( PPPs). What I ask you, Mr Moisés Ferreira, is whether today's proposal for discussion puts a brake on this immorality that constitutes public-private partnerships, which are good business for the private, but which are disastrous for the State and which, in our view, constitute one of the main causes for the current situation of the National Health Service, with profound and serious effects on the access of Portuguese to health care. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u13	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr José António Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u14	Mr President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, in 2001 you were not yet a Member, the Left Block submitted a draft amendment to the Health Bases Act, Bill No. 433 / VIII ( 2 ). ( a ), in which he proposed at Base LX, paragraph 4 : « The State may support private health initiatives by providing incentives or financial support defined in programme contracts in accordance with the law ». And in base LXI, paragraph 1, the same bill stated: « The State supports the activity of private institutions of social solidarity and other non-profit subjects performing health benefits and other activities that contribute to the realization of the right to health protection ». Now, looking at your bill today under discussion, I confess that I do not see that support there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u15	It's not under discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u16	What I am asking, honourable Member, is very simple: what has changed, between 2001 and 2018, for the Left Block to stop defending the state to support the private and social sectors in the area of health? What has changed in the meantime? Do you not see yourself in the proposals of Mr Luís Fazenda and Mr Fernando Rosas?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u17	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u18	Do you consider these reactionary and revisionist Members? Was the Left Block then a complicit party of private interests that now denounce so much? Or have you just not read and remember the proposals put forward by your party's founding fathers? A second question, Mr Deputies, has to do with the following: the preliminary draft by former Member John Semedo and Dr. António Arnaut — which I, as a doctor, take advantage of to pay my tribute — had, in its base VIII, in the health sector, a possible transfer of competences to local authorities with regard to facilities, equipment and transport of patients. However, your bill was careful to remove this possibility of decentralization of competences to local power. It certainly was not a step forward, so this option translates a sense into a minimum centralizer. I know that the Left Block has not passed, nor has it been worded. But what I am asking is: why does the Portuguese Autoarchs Block distrust them, so much so that they do not even let them collaborate with the National Health Service in such basic, but so important to people, such as the transportation of patients or the maintenance and improvement of some health facilities and equipment, especially in primary care? Do you really think that your ideological sectarianism serves the interests of people and, in particular, of patients? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u19	To reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the requests for clarification that have been made to me. Mrs. Deputée Catarina Marcelino, in January of this year, Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo presented the book we all know. The Left Block and the Socialist Party were in the presentation. I remember that members of the Socialist Party supported the proposal made by Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo. Well, that's the proposal we brought here. Therefore, as far as dialogue and consensus is concerned, we have, of course, all the openness to make dialogue and consensus, provided that it is not, as I said in my speech, to exercise mere parliamentary rhetoric. We need to identify the problems, diagnose the problems of the National Health Service and have a Health Base Act that effectively acts on these problems. And, for us, the new Health Bases Act, to act on these problems, must have very clear answers: separation between public and private; end moderate rates; fight public-private partnerships; promote public health. Finally, it must contain all these fundamental axes. If it is around these proposals that the Socialist Party intends to engage in dialogue, we, of course, are completely open to this dialogue, to consensus and to find ways to build a new Health Base Act for decades, which responds to the problems of the National Health Service and which, consequently, strengthens the National Health Service. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with the PSD and the CDS-PP, were really the economic interests that sat at the National Health Service budget table, nothing more than that, and that is exactly what needs to be reversed. He pointed out, well, that the Basics Law is a fundamental instrument. We also find, because it limits what governments can do to the National Health Service. And what we say in our draft basic law is that no government can sell the National Health Service retail or wholesale. It can't be sold! Health is a right, it's not for the right to make it a business! He asked the honourable Member how the Block on the Left weighs on putting a brake on public-private partnerships. This is set out in Base XXXIX, paragraph 4 of our draft law, which reads as follows : « The administration, management and financing of institutions, institutions, services and health care units is exclusively public, and cannot in any way be delivered to private or social entities, with or without profit». Therefore, any type of management other than the public is safeguarded, because we want fully public management. Ask me Mr. José António Silva of the PSD, which changed between our bill of 2001 and our bill of 2018. Mr, do you not know what changed between 2001 and 2018 in this country? Don't you know the pendant privates have in their health? Didn't you realize that the private are destroying the National Health Service? Didn't you notice that there are more private hospitals than public? Did you not realize that these private hospitals live at the expense of the National Health Service budget? [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u21	It's a lie! He's fucking lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u22	You didn't realize that private people, in order to survive, do something very simple, which is to attack the National Health Service so that it doesn't have the ability to answer and have to buy private people what the National Health Service has to do? Mr. Deputies got it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The honourable Member is on the private side of health, and that is why he asks that question. You got it! You've seen the whole movie, and you want the movie to go on like this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] But we don't want to. The country doesn't want to. The users don't want to, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u23	Mr José de Matos Rosa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that today takes place around the bill of the Left Block does not pass an attempt of obstinate and retrograde reversal of the Health Bases Act, a law that has served the country for almost 30 years. The Left Block has a clear objective, even if it does not assume it: to capture, ideologically, the National Health Service! [[PSD applause.]] The initiative that is being discussed today goes against the meaning of history and is even in contradiction with the past of the Block of the Left, as my colleague, José António Silva, said. In fact, in 2001 the Left Block presented a bill in which it proposed that the State support private health initiatives—I repeat'support private health initiatives'—and that the State also support the activities of the social sector institutions—I repeat'support the activities of the social sector institutions'—even providing for—see only! — the granting of public financial incentives and support to those private entities. Today, almost 20 years later, the Left Block went back and everything wants to focus on the state, nothing wants out of the state. Such a party does not serve people, it first instrumentalizes them in the name of statistical chimeras that are no more than a form of minimization of the individual and society. Also, this project well reveals the radical political nature of the Block of Left, a Saudi party of political and social models, which, fortunately, have never been revenged in Portugal and which have only brought misery to the countries that communism managed to submit in the past century. [[PSD applause.]] In the wake of the reformism which, still recently, Mr President of the Republic, when he proposed a virtuous balance between a public component, a private component and a social component, the Left Block prefers ideological sectarianism and infrene radicalism. And the people, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't cure yourself with ideologies! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Health Bases Act, approved by Law No. 48 / 90 of 24 August, has, as I said before, almost three decades of existence and has been amended only once in 2002. Rare are the Portuguese laws that can be surpassed, almost unchanged, of such great longevity. This is the case because the current Health Bases Act establishes a balanced health system, in which the public sector, which is predominantly embodied in the National Health Service, is also recognized by the social and private sectors, to which the State must make every effort to make better use of the interests of citizens and Portuguese people. over these three decades, the Portuguese health system improved a lot and health indicators also recorded a positive evolution: increased the average life expectancy, reduced infant mortality, improved accessibility to health services, multiplied social initiatives providing health care, also increased significantly the number of health professionals in our country. For these results — I say and I repeat again ‘for these results’ — much, but much, have contributed to the governments of my party, the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] They passed the current Health Bases Act and approved the Statute of the National Health Service, which is still in force today. But this positive development, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're under threat. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD recognizes that the National Health Service is currently discussing serious and complex problems: accessibility, sustainability problems and even "operational" problems. such are examples of low investment — about 1% of total health expenditure — the lack of professionals and resources, high waiting lists for consultations or, furthermore, the increase in the number of patients waiting for surgery. We know that, for this reality, they contribute structural and conjunctural reasons. in the structural, we find the underfunding of the SNS which, commands the truth to recognize, is not today, but for decades. in the contextuals, is the current disguised austerity, in which the blockades imposed by the Ministry of Finance to the contracts of health professionals, to investments in the SNS, sometimes even to the realization of simple expenses for the acquisition of goods and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u26	It is true that if the current Health Bases Act was met, some of these problems might not take on the current gravity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u28	If the government placed the interests of citizens above all, certainly the waiting lists for surgeries would be smaller, as the Court of Auditors has still recently concluded in an audit of access to health care in the SNS. More than you read, what is missing is, therefore, political will, a will that the government does not have, nor can it have for the political choices that the Socialist Party has made to achieve power.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u29	All right! [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD participates in this whole-body debate, without prejudice, without sectarianism, without ideological fundamentalism and, essentially, without contradictions. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] Our position is very clear: we are in favour of everything that improves citizens' access to health care, such as the Constitution, moreover, enshrines. [[Protests by BE and the Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] For us, PSD, first are people and ideology never overlaps with fundamental rights. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Let it be clear: the PSD will never deal with proposals that deal frontally with the conception of the health system enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. [[BE's protests.]] The PSD will never endorse the subversion of the current Portuguese health system, based on a principle of articulation and collaboration of sectors, in an advantage perspective for the citizen. We therefore argue that the National Health Service should integrate into a true national health system. A national health system based on transparent and pragmatic cooperation between different health care providers, whether public, private or social economy, in which efficiency criteria are oriented towards a better capacity to respond to people's needs. A national health system that promotes healthy lifestyles and prevents disease, rather than just fighting it in an advanced stage. A national health system that imposes on the State, rather than outdated models and centralists, the duty to ensure the Portuguese services and health care of quality, with accessibility and in good time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want this debate and in it we will enter actively, positively and constructively to adapt the current law to the new realities and challenges facing the Portuguese society of our time, obviously within the availability of existing financial resources. We therefore respond positively to the call by the President of the Republic when, in his already mentioned intervention in the opening of the National Health Convention, he called for a broad debate in which the possible bridges, the necessary dialogues and the essential convergences are sought. The PSD will always defend, in the National Health Service, as in all services of public interest, the best possible service for the lowest possible cost. That is our commitment to the Portuguese. The Portuguese can always trust the PSD because, for the PSD, first is always Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u31	Mr Matos Rosa, two Members have signed up to ask for clarification. First of all, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u32	Mr President, Mr José de Matos Rosa, I ask you two essential questions about the intervention the PSD here has made through your person. On an essential issue, the PSD has been doing this debate trying not to do so, confusing what is really at stake and now with false arguments. Mr Deputies and the PSD have mentioned here the 2001 Project of the Left Block, but he has chosen — and I repeat the word 'chosen' — not to mention everything in this project. [[Protests by PSD Members Adam Silva and Luís Vales.]] But I will help you, sir. It is written—and I will quote— « but only when the SNS cannot execute them». It is the so-called "additional character" of the private resource. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, it is shown here that there is no change in the position of the Left Block in relation to the SNS matter. What is an attempt by the PSD to run away from the debate about whether or not they want a public health service and, therefore, we are informed about it. Mr President, the PSD comes to this debate with a clear choice that everyone knows. The PSD voted against the creation of the National Health Service and the arguments it used at the time are exactly the same as it is currently using to avoid this debate, and this is not acceptable for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u34	He came to say that he defends people, who defend the people, who defend Portugal, but does not defend the health of anyone in this country, except the health of the large economic groups, who continue to earn millions at the cost of the PSD Basics Act, 1990. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] What the honourable Member came here to do was defend the private, it was to take a position for the 500 million euros per year going to PPPs (public-private partnerships), for the more than 1200 million euros going to conventions and other subcontractors, it was not to defend universal and quality health care and, therefore, what is clear is that the PSD cannot understand what is being discussed today. What is under discussion today is a very simple choice, Mr. Member : either we stagnate the bleeding of billions of euros per year that go to the private or we divide once and for all all the waters and give the SNS the breath you need, returning to the matrix idealized by António Arnaut, which is a humanist and universal SNS for all and for all. Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the reply to clarify the country on which the PSD position and proposal on this matter is in effect. We have already heard the shadow minister of PSD health cry out against the SNS with the same bricks as ever. We also heard your leader claim that it is available for agreements around the Basics Law. You just don't know what the PSD really proposes. What we are asking is therefore what proposals, what agreements, but, above all, on behalf of what and on what interests the PSD proposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u35	Also for a request for clarification, Mrs Eurídice Pereira, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u36	Mr President, Mr Matos Rosa, after your intervention, I am forced to say that I have doubts, serious doubts, that I follow when I say that over the last few decades the evolution of the National Health Service and the overwhelming majority of the population's health indicators have been remarkable. It would be important to say that there exists around health in general, and the National Health Service in particular, a broad recognition that points to the need to preserve this greater achievement of democracy. But, Mr President, your speech leaves us with great doubts, I say that it leaves us with great doubts not to say that we are certain — that, once again, the way they want to go is not the one that is right, it is not the one that is right. Mr President, history has not always put you on the right track in this matter. The truth is that our paths have not been fully converged. Recently, the leader of his party expressed willingness to move forward with an agreement in the area of health, in fact, reference which, in all its intervention, was not repeated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u37	Mrs. Deputy wasn't in the room!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u38	You didn't hear the speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u39	And it was not repeated because the entire construction of his intervention used the 40-year arguments that took you to the National Health Service. Obviously, we want broad consensus, because they are always welcome, but because history is not rewritten, it is very important, definitely, we know what they are coming to. It is important, therefore, and merely as an example, to mention that the very significant increase that the previous government imposed at the level of moderate rates constituted the robustness of a barrier in access to health care, exacerbating inequalities in health, especially for those who, due to their clinical, social or economic condition, are particularly vulnerable. It was also during the PSD/CDS government that the transport of patients was rationed or due to the closure of important valences and services. This great debate, Mr Deputies, therefore, needs to know that PSD should then wait: the PSD that aggravates barriers and inequalities in access to health care or the PSD that honours the national health service matrix in its general, universal and trendly free access? On the other hand, the perspective that the right has of the private sector does not coincide with that which is the organic matrix of our health system, that is, a strong public sector, central reference and equipped with highly qualified professionals—corporated in the National Health Service—with the private and social sectors as complementary to public services. If the PS is clear the separation of roles between public, private and social providers, as well as their relationship, for PSD are still too indefinite these same roles. This debate also needs to know what PSD we can expect: the PSD that defends the complementarity of services or the PSD that transfers competences, services, resources and public sector establishments to the social sector, as was done in the previous governance, PSD / CDS? What PSD can we expect: the party that defends the private sector as an alternative in the provision of health care or the party that defends a pure competition logic in the context of the market among health providers? Finally, in essence, what we are asking you, Mr President, — because it makes all the sense, considering, I repeat, the recall of the same arguments 40 years ago — is whether today, contrary to what happened in the past, the PSD looks at the guiding principles that preside over the constitution of the National Health Service. It is of the utmost importance that Portugal has a very clear answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u40	In reply, Mr Matos Rosa of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u41	Mr. President, on the questions put by Mrs. Member of the Left Block Isabel Pires, I would say that it is not the PSD that denies Portuguese on ideological issues, it is the Left Block. We are not the ones who deny the founding fathers, you are the ones who are denying the founding fathers of the Left Block! [[It's true!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u42	Madam Member, you understand Mr Moisés Ferreira there because I think he answered something a little different from what Mrs Ferreira said. So take a good look at it and get along with Mr. Moisés Ferreira to fine-tune the speech. It's better to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u43	It's better, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u44	Don't worry that BE isn't the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u45	Mrs Deputy, I am going to distribute to you my written speech, because in 1990 the Left Block did not exist, but the PSD has a great journey, much done and much collaborated with the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u46	in the closure of services!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u47	I do not want to be indelicated with the Left Block, which has one opinion at a time of time and another opinion at a time of time. I don't want, by any means, to call the Left Block exchange,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... but, Mrs. Member, look carefully at what I said, read the 2001 project well, because the honourable Member is not right at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u48	So, we see: PSD is going to vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u49	Mrs Eurídice Pereira, with the esteem and consideration I have for the Member of the Socialist Party, I will also deliver my written speech to you because there are issues that have raised that are clarified. We are available to cooperate, to discuss, to participate in this debate. I cannot forget, as I said in my speech, that the PSD participated in the elaboration of the Health Bases Act and the Statutes of the National Health Service. Mrs. Member, in my speech I noted several developments due to the National Health Service, several positive indicators, but also said that at this time there are things that are bad in health and that we need to improve. We must also remember — and I did not do so directly — that the Socialist Party was of the parties that were the longer in government and that, if we have spent these last years of financial tightening, if we have spent the time of the troika, that the honourable Members. Left-wingers so much like to remember, it was because of the governance of the Socialist Party and the Socrates Eng. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u50	We can't forget, because you really like to remember those four years of financial tightness, cutbacks, limitations... but why did we get there? Because of your bad management! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u51	Why did we get there? Because you guys were bad managers! Why did we get there? Because you didn't know how to rule! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Deputies, we must have some good sense and balance, because—and I would like to remind the Left Block the same — often the state cannot respond to the Portuguese who are out there, who are on the street, who are on their own day-to-day, who are working. We are talking about health, and in health time is very important, it is vital for all Portuguese, being often private, and even the social sector, to reach these Portuguese and solve their problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u52	Mr António Sales of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has always been with the National Health Service and therefore remains faithful to its principles and foundations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me to recall, on this occasion, a man who had a fundamental role in building and defending one of the most ambitious and supportive public services in this country: Antonio Arnaut and the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also recall Mário Soares, Prime Minister of the Government who began the process of creating the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is an indeclinable duty of gratitude and fair tribute to the audacity and political vision of two extraordinary men who left us a political legacy in the form of National Health Service. Thank you very much, Antonio Arnaut. Thank you very much, Mário Soares! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to us today, with respect and recognition for this legacy and with vision of the future, the obligation to defend and develop the National Health Service, for four essential reasons: first, because its existence is a guarantee of equality for all Portuguese in access to health; secondly, because its development is a condition of improving the health status of Portuguese; thirdly, because Portuguese value the National Health Service for the tests it has given over 40 years; fourthly, because the available alternatives compromise and do not guarantee social and territorial equity and solidarity that must constitute indissociable pillars of a National Health Service. With the ongoing discussion there is no question of a revision of the Constitution in order to reformulate Article 64. the, on the right to health and its fundamental principles and guidelines. Don't! There is no question of the existence and continuity of a National Universal Health Service, generally and tendably free of charge. If there were those who, and in a recent past, tried to disqualify him, send him and remove him density at every moment and at every opportunity, here is the answer from those who have always defended him: today we are refocusing the debate on respect for the Constitution and on the need to adapt to the new times and reality of the new challenges. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a new Basic Law defines the principles and the matrix of public health policies and, even if not a rigid political determinism, must reflect the dynamism of a sector looking at the future at every moment, respecting the principles established in the Constitution, without forgetting health professionals. We want and need that professionals and citizens be united in the defense of a National Health Service as a decisive instrument of social cohesion, territorial cohesion and combating inequalities. for our part, the review of the Health Bases Act should have as its main wish to reaffirm the centrality and preponderance of the National Health Service in the provision of care, focusing on the updating and modernization of its role, as well as the organization of its financing, in order to contribute to its development. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS is a demanding idea and its modernization is a very complex operation. I do not know—and probably the honourable Members. Nor do Members — no other sector or service so complete and so complex: it is available every day of the year, every hour, throughout the country, for everyone and for all kinds of health problems. It is therefore necessary to attract and maintain more qualified professionals, with a more attractive and motivating status in terms of professional satisfaction, thus promoting career promotion. It is urgent to look beyond the evidence, through a budgetary strategy that goes beyond the financial objectives and is designed for health and well-being objectives, focusing on health promotion and disease prevention. It is absolutely crucial to look at the private and social sector as complementary. For this purpose, the financing of the institutions should be achieved by results and quality and not only by the amount of services provided. Only in this way will we improve the articulation and contractualization of the SNS with the social and private sector, which should be subject to prior assessment of the needs and principles of efficiency and transparency regarding the choice of the provider. It is vital to look at the public sector without ideological prejudices, favour it and always equalize the best way of making new investments in infrastructure and equipment in the field of health. But it is also necessary to introduce rules on regulation in the sector and on licensing of health units, not provided for in the previous Basic Law. We must look at moderate rates as an element of moderation in demand, and it must be equalized to its minimization, in a possible reduction of the financial effort of citizens, according to a logic established in the National Health Service Act itself, when provided for in Article 7. the possibility of establishing moderate rates to rationalize the use of benefits. Ladies and gentlemen. Members in the PS, we want to continue the design and dream of Antonio Arnaut and therefore we want to renew, reformulate and develop the SNS to meet the new challenges. That is our responsibility and that of all who want to achieve a better future for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u54	Mr António Sales, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u55	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u56	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Sales, I listened to your statement and we also know this week a proposal from the working group which was appointed by the Government, on which I would like to ask you a few questions. This proposal, which we have read carefully, seems to us clearly insufficient in some matters, especially in order to do what is necessary in the National Health Service: as regards moderate rates, it maintains almost everything as it is, which seems to us insufficient; as regards investment, it continues to have the same formulation as in the 1990 Law, which says that the National Health Service provides care within its resources, and we believe that the paradigm must be exactly the opposite, that governments are obliged to provide the National Health Service so that it can provide the necessary care; moreover, the PPPs are maintained, the public-private partnerships, with this proposal of the working group, which we find entirely insufficient. I remember that António Arnaut, in a very recent interview, said that, and I quote, "SNS needs to go through intensive care. I am not against the private, now these cannot live at the expense of the SNS ». We couldn't agree more. We already realize that the PSD does not perceive the difference between suppletive and competitive and between complementary and giving everything to the private. That is why I put a question to the honourable Member: do you consider that private individuals should be complementary or competitive to the SNS? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u58	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u59	Mr President, Mr António Sales, in October 2016, in the 30 years of the Basics Law of the Education System, the CDS presented a proposal to review this Law and at that time the Left Block made us two criticisms. I quote the first criticism: « (...) no one fully understands the reason for this debate now. Let's see if until the end of the debate we can understand what leads the CDS to come here now with a proposal for a review (...) ». I refer to the second criticism: “We suspect that this proposal for revision of the Basic Law of the CDS is a ‘ Trojan horse’”. It seems to me that this is the right time to return these criticisms to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u61	in fact, no one fully understands the political opportunity of this Bloc bill. We know that there is a government proposal to be discussed in September and we know that this was not a topic that was in the joint positions agreed between the Block and the PS. And this initiative is probably not going to be voted on. Does the political opportunity of this initiative simply have to do with a warning that the Left Block wants to make the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u63	... wanting to know where it is available to enable a Socialist Party Government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u64	It is more a « puppet theatre»!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u65	With regard to the second criticism, in the present case, it is clear that this proposal from the Left Block is a « Trojan horse », because the real amendment it proposes — the one with the most prominence and insistence, as it is seen, by the proliferative interviews of Mr. Moses Ferreira — is not the renewal of the SNS, is the end of PPPs (public-private partnerships), ignoring the facts, ignoring the reports of the UTAP (Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) that underpin the option by PPPs, ignoring the quality of health care provided, ignoring the satisfaction of health professionals and, above all, the satisfaction of users, and ignoring the report from the World Health Organization, where it can be read that, and I quote, « much can be learned from the generally positive experience of PPPs in Portugal ». Mr António Sales, since the Minister of Health said this week that there are many points of contact between the Bloc proposal and the pre-proposal of the review committee of the Basics Law, in line with what I asked Mr Moisés Ferreira, I ask you the following: which side is the PS? Is the end of PPPs one of these points of contact and convergence? If this is the case, instead of extending contracts, it is better to warn who is investing in PPP in hospitals in SNS that is not worth it. And it is also better to warn the users of the hospitals of Cascais, Braga, Loures and Vila Franca that the hospitals they know will cease to exist and be able to serve. And it is even better, Mr.António Sales, to vote on the Block bill in general and then discuss it in the specialty, if it is just a matter of correctness. Or is it, after all, a point of tension and that what prevents the vote is simply the fact that the honourable Member does not want to throw more gas into the fire of this discord which separates you? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u66	To reply, Mr Antonio Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, as you know, the working group coordinated by Dr. Maria de Belém Roseira presented their results last Tuesday, which now have a public discussion period until September. Now, in public discussion, the document is in a position to receive all contributions from civil society and different entities and does not bind the Government or Parliament. It is a document that will eventually be presented to the Government and then, on a proposal for a law, will be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u69	Mr. Deputy, Dr. António Arnaut was president of the party. We don't need an interpreter for your words. We know your philosophy and dialogue very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We respect the memory of Antonio Arnaut when we respect the right to health protection for all Portuguese on equal terms. We respect the memory of Antonio Arnaut when we respect the Law of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u71	We respect the memory of Antonio Arnaut when we respect the humanist formulation of our Constitution. And we respect the memory of Antonio Arnaut when we establish an irrevocable commitment to the principles of our Constitution and look at a basic law as a decisive instrument of social cohesion, territorial cohesion and combating inequalities. Mr President, allow me also to tell you that the moderate rates — and you have heard them in my speech — were, of course, covered in Article 7. the law of the National Health Service, as you know, as an element of stabilization or rationalization of the use of benefits. Therefore, we understand that moderate rates are not a reconciliation, they are exactly for what the National Health Service Act says, that is, for rationalizing the use of benefits. As such, we believe that an effort should be made to minimize moderate rates, so that there can obviously be better access to all Portuguese. As for dichotomy between the public and private sectors, he also heard what he said in my speech. We understand that the private sector is complementary and we will always favour the public sector—there is no doubt about this! — but we understand that, under certain conditions, the private sector, being complementary, will certainly have its place. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, with regard to PPPs, we understand, as I said in my speech, that we should always equalize the best way of rationalizing investments in infrastructure and health equipment, so we have already done so in relation to some PPPs. We therefore understand that we should do so whenever there are criteria for effectiveness and efficiency in this process. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are available to welcome all the contributions of all political parties to improve the law and to present proposals that establish consensus, if possible, even supra-party consensus, that reflect, in fact, a true health pact, which meets the real needs of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u72	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the second group of requests for clarification. So you have the floor for now, Mrs Isaura Pedro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, the Left Block proposes, in paragraph 4 of base XXXIX of its bill, that the administration and management of the health care services and units of the National Health Service be exclusively public, and cannot in any form be delivered to private or social entities, with or for no profit. That is, the Left Block defends, as a principle, without exception, the exclusivity of public management in the National Health Service. It is clear that the PSD — and any responsible party — also defends public management as a general rule. However, it does not seem to me to make sense, in particular from the point of view of economic rationality, that such management is always, and in any circumstances, public, and can never be the subject of other forms of management. The Socialist Party has, in fact, a rich and well-known past with regard to the launch of public-private partnership programmes in the health sector, not only when Dr. Correia de Campos was a minister but even in the governments of Eng.António Guterres. I wonder, therefore, whether the Socialist Party agrees with this general and mandatory prohibition of public-private partnerships in the health sector, as the Left Block now proposes. The Left Block also provides, in its proposed amendment to the Health Bases Act, that private and social sectors cease to articulate with the public sector, as has always happened, to become merely complementary and complementary. The proposal that is under public discussion, of the working group appointed by the Government to amend the Health Bases Act, defends, and well, a principle of articulation that may even imply the integration of a private institution or social sector into the National Health Service. That is what provides for paragraph 7 of base XX of that proposal. I ask Mr.António Sales whether the Socialist Party sees itself in the link between sectors, defended by the government, or in the statistic view, of the Left Block. It was important for the Socialist Party to be clear, because it was an excellent contribution to a transparent and enlightening debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u74	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u75	Mr President, Mr António Sales, I begin by referring to a first basic notion: the PSD has always been, and is next to the National Health Service. [[PS and BE protests.]] For PSD, the important thing is to manage rigorously and serve people in the best way possible. This is our way of being. Some make beautiful speeches, but then, in practice, what do we have? We have three years of waiting for consultations to take place in two months (at the end of 2017, 100,000 patients had to wait another year for consultation ) ; delays in oncology and other services; various services of the National Health Service closed, especially primary health care. It is therefore enough to recall the management of the Socialist Party at other times. They make beautiful speeches, but then, in practice, what do they do? There are no entities who wish to cooperate, in particular in the social sector, the third sector, for no profit. Excuse them! This is also what the Left Block does on the initiative which it now presents. For PSD, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u76	Yeah, no! We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u77	For PSD, all are necessary, all are important and it is essential to have a good public sector, well monitored. It is not how the Socialist Party does, which cuts into the Health Regulatory Entity, which has no means to control and control. We're not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u79	We really want good services, good service. We know that times, depending on the environment, are difficult. Therefore, we are available to cooperate, to improve the service, to improve the system. I would like to ask Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party a few questions : is it in the view that the Left Block defends this proposal to amend the Health Bases Act? Does it agree with the Left Block, when it excludes any possibility of non-public management in health services, even if this is justified by the public interest? in the PSD, as I said, what we want are better services, more speed, rigor and good management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u80	To reply, Mr Antonio Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u81	Mr President, I have already responded, in the previous round of requests for clarification, to some of the issues that have now been raised. Anyway, Mrs Fatima Ramos, you may want to convince us that you are next to the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u82	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u83	...but it does not convince us that it has always been, because it has voted against the National Health Service Act. So you know very well that, if you are now, you haven't been before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Isura Pedro, with regard to PPPs, as I have already said, we will always favour the public sector and, without ideological prejudices, we will always equalise the best way to make new investments in health infrastructure and equipment. On the articulation and contractualization of the National Health Service with the private and social sector, we believe that it should be subject to prior assessment of the needs and principles of effectiveness and efficiency, as well as transparency in the choice of the provider. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The numbers are not wrong. Today, there are more professionals in the National Health Service than in the period 2011 - 2015, but, despite this, there is no doubt that there is still a great shortage of professionals. Doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants and operational assistants are missing. The lack of professionals forces them to work longer hours, more days in a row and without rest, compromising their safety and that of patients. The more than 700 000 users who do not have a family doctor, or the thousands who have been waiting for a year or more for a hospital consultation or surgery, or those who see their exams, appointments or deferred surgeries know and feel that there are severe deficiencies in the SNS, to which it is necessary to respond. SNS problems are not exhausted in the lack of professionals, there are also problems with equipment and with buildings. The non-replacement of obsolete equipment, as well as the failure to carry out or protect the decision to execute other types of investments, such as works or even the construction of new hospitals and health centers, compete for the weakening of the public response. Another of the current problems of the SNS is the continued transfer of health care to the economic groups operating in health through agreements, conventions or PPPs. The money that is transferred to the economic groups needs the SNS! What we have just described are the consequences of decades of right-wing policy carried out by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS and of which the current PS government has not clearly started with regard to the National Health Service. These are political options that have to be broken! The option must be to hire professionals and value them, make the investments necessary to increase the responsiveness of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unquestionable evidence that solving the problems of the National Health Service does not depend on any change to the Health Bases Act. There are currently all instruments in place so that the government can solve these problems, which the government lacks is even political will. That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u89	The lack of health professionals is resolved by the speeding up of the competitions, by the acceleration of the procedures pending authorization from the Government and by the speedy authorisation of contracts. Social and professional valorization takes place with the creation of careers, with the integration of professionals in these careers and in their categories, with the recognition of all years of service and with the fulfilment of the State budget as regards the defrosting of progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u91	It is not acceptable for the Government to have a distorted interpretation of a rule which is very clear, with regard to the counting of service time and evaluation. The lack of clinicians resolves with the opening of competitions for newly-specialists doctors, as soon as they finish training, and their immediate integration, with public ties, into the medical career. The problems are also solved with the end of the transfer of health care from SNS to economic groups, ending the scandalous drain of public money to these groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u93	What is needed is investment in improving the SNS, replacing and renewing equipment, rehabilitating buildings and building new hospitals and health centers. The Government also has Article 4 at its disposal. the State Budget, proposed by the PCP, which exempts from captivating the health sector. SNS funding resolves with the correct priorities and options. The option must be to solve the problems of users, professionals and SNS and not to speed up the deficit. All this could be done by the government, to improve the SNS, without having to touch the Health Bases Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current Health Bases Act, as the PCP timely advised, at its approval, opened the way to the fragility of the National Health Service, through underfinancing, the destruction of careers, the non-contracting of professionals needed to provide quality health care, the scandalous financing of economic groups operating in health through the conclusion of conventions and ruinous public-private partnerships. The current Health Bases Act should be discussed and amended. The CFP will not lack this debate, but will do so in its own way and in order to ensure a universal, general, free National Health Service, with fully public management and equipped with human, financial and technical resources essential to the provision of quality health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u96	The Bureau does not record requests for clarification, so we will continue with the speeches, for which Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are debating a proposal from the Left Block for a new basic law of the National Health Service. The National Health Service, which was born almost 40 years ago, has proved to be an unmistakable instrument in the progress of Portuguese society and in improving Portuguese health. Almost 40 years ago and with a very distinct sociodemographic, technological and political framework, we need to defend the SNS and operationalize modern and innovative responses to new problems and challenges, respecting unmistakable fundamental principles. And let me say that, in this matter, the position of the CDS is well known. The SNS has gone through difficulties and the CDS regrets today, here, that in the last three years of socialist governance, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, the SNS is being compromised its sustainability and quality, with clear damage to the health of the Portuguese and the professionals who work in it, to whom we use to greet and praise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The structural reforms of primary health care, the hospital reform of public health, from health care to chronic and end-of-life patients are compromised or even paralyzed. There are serious problems in access to health care, professionals are unhappy, worn out and are attracted and devalued. It's been a lot of promises, but reality is far from pink. They are in view of the results of a deliberate option by the Government not to invest in public health services, the results of an austerity that the Government has wanted to hide from the Portuguese but that they feel every day when they go to the health services. It is the garrote of the finances imposed on the desirable responses to the health needs of the Portuguese, a garrote that prevents necessary contracts and that do not happen, a garrote that limits the desirable autonomy responsible for the services, a garrote that also translates into captivating that paralyzes imperious advances that take place. This government has not been a friend of the SNS and the Left Block and the PCP can well protest that they are still deeply committed to these policies and to these results.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u99	The proposal presented today by the Left Block, concerning us in a hasty and undensified way, in view of what the relevance of the topic requires, does not represent the right advance and answer to the new realities and problems that the SNS faces. In fundamental matters and in principle, we are in deep disagreement with the Left Block, particularly in matters of financing models and in the integration of the social and private sector into the health system. The CDS understands that a new law of health bases is needed where the citizen, yes, I repeat, the citizen, and not the ideological prejudices, is truly at the center of the system. [[CDS-PP applause.]] at the appropriate time, the CDS will contribute and participate actively in this important debate, aiming to improve the health of Portuguese. We reject labels of « enemies of the SNS », from whom it is crystallized in time, and which are completely unfounded. And we wanted to remember here that there are no SNS owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u101	The SNS today is the result of the contribution of many people from different party backgrounds, and we are proud of what we have today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u102	But we want a better SNS, an SNS integrated into a robust and modern health system, prepared to meet the challenges of technological innovation, aging, increasing chronic diseases, sustainability, humanization and care quality. We want a strong SNS, a real pillar of social cohesion and of the extended health system, in which the geriatric care, continued and palliative care, support for thousands of caregivers in this country who hope for a status that it takes to arrive, are truly a priority. Here too, the CDS will not fail to pay attention and continue to fight for the dignity and quality of life of the weakest, of those who effectively need more and better responses from the health system. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall finish, not without paying tribute to António Arnaut and João Semedo, to whom, despite known differences, we recognize value. We hope that this debate will indeed result in what is essential and essential: a new stage in the development of the National Health Service, a step that will ensure the best interest of Portuguese people, the improvement of the health of all and the progress of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u103	To ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola was written to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, we well know that this is a debate that causes the CDS discomfort. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We also know well that, after all, for you, the National Health Service would not exist, and we remember that they voted against its creation. [[And why?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u105	We also know, and very well, how the National Health Service is, undoubtedly, one of the greatest achievements of April 25 and how, once again, it costs the CDS. It costs and costs a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u106	By the way, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u107	We remember that whenever they were able to attack the SNS: the current Basics Law was adopted with the votes of the CDS ; in the memory government of the PSD and the CDS they did what they could to continue their destruction — and unfortunately they did not remember it here — either with the increase of moderate rates or through the de-investment and the concession to privates; and, by speaking of « Trojan horse », they would have the intention to — imagine! — to return the hospitals of the National Health Service to mercy, as if the State did not pay incomes for these buildings and as if health was not a matter of everyone but only of some. Health is not mercy! PSD and CDS took over 1000 million euros, excluded 4,000 professionals, and the CDS had this very concrete plan to deliver a quarter of SNS hospitals to mercy! Fortunately, we arrived in time to block your intentions, despite three hospitals, which had already been handed over, there they remained. And it is from the reversal of this trajectory, since 1990, that we are talking about here: the path of privatization of health, that you have been workers. We well know that historically the debate about the maintenance of the National Public Health Service is not a debate that interests the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The question here today demands a clear decision: will you want to continue wasting taxpayers' money in delivering health to private people? Will you continue to exclude the population from universal access to health care? And tell me, without lying: isn't the current Health Bases Act ideological? Isn't your proposal ideological? The delivery of health to private is not an ideological option? Madam Member, the National Health Service is not — I repeat, it is not — a private health service. The « Trojan horse » of delivery to the private has already been introduced by you, and it is in this bill that we will reverse this proposal of the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u108	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u109	Madam President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I would like to thank you for your questions and tell you, from now on, because I do not think you have heard all my speech carefully, that this debate does not cause any discomfort, that it does not cost us the improvements in Portuguese health and that our actions, our proposals testify to this. I believe that the Left Block should be uncomfortable when it is entirely consistent with the results of this governance, when it enables budgets that, in fact, have to do with results that cut Portuguese access to health care. in this matter, this is what hurts the Portuguese, this is harmful to the National Health Service. Therefore, I am returning this discomfort to you, telling you that, on our part, you do not find any kind of discomfort with regard to the debate. Like, in fact, I think I gave him proof, we have no ideological prejudice. Ideology, yes, and values, of course. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Now, I prejudice and impose this on the interests of the Portuguese, which is quite different, and that is what you do, is obviously different matters and things. You continue to hold a debate in which you give us intentions, but do not debate reality. And if I may, I will return the question to you: what is going to happen here today is a manifestation of the interest of the Block or is a manifestation in favor of the national interest? You will or will not vote on the proposal that they claim to be for the defence of the national interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u110	It's for the defense of health!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u111	... or will she go down to the Commission without a vote? That's what the Portuguese want to know, and that's why they're actually worried. It is only on the part of the CDS that they know that we do not defend these government policies, that we defend the national interest. On the left side of the Block, you are getting used to the fact that you, in a few days, are defending the government and, in other days, you want to take a walk and show that you have new proposals. They're defined, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The Block really needs to get out of the discomfort this matter causes you. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u112	Mr Luís Vales has the floor for an intervention now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that now ends highlighted the political sectarianism of the Left Block, a party that is complicit in the current government, a party that is responsible for the state of degradation in which our National Health Service is located. It would not be if it had not made this government viable, with three State budgets already approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u114	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u115	The fight against the Block is a fight against freedom, against individual autonomy. Its ideal is state bureaucracy, it is the asphyxiation of society, it is the submission of the person to the state apparatus!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u117	That is why it is not worth wasting time with unrealistic, outdated proposals, which mean no more than a deep disregard for people's rights and needs, in particular their access to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is not allowed to be captured by revisionist agendas. We have been responsible for the current Health Bases Act, of which, in fact, we are very proud and have served the Portuguese in excellence over almost 30 years. We also participated in the construction of the current National Health Service, whose status, it is important to remember, date 1993 — then the PSD ruled, with an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u121	We therefore do not receive lessons of citizenship or social policy on the part of a radical, anti-systemal party when appropriate, which makes the attack demagogic an instrument of social corrosion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u123	But our responsibility also imposes on us a duty, a duty of alert, which is, in fact, increasingly meaningful in the country. Still this week, a report confirmed what is already known, i.e., that the reform of primary health care is stagnant. This report even says that the year 2017 was the worst of every year in the evolution of the USF (family health units) and also acknowledges that if the economic crisis ended in the country it continues in the hospital sector. And it still denounces the current indebtedness of the hospital sector, considering it even on the edge of a nerve attack. In the face of all this, what the Government does, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? The government smiles... who don't smile are the Portuguese who have to use the National Health Service. Those who do not smile are the SNS patients who have to wait more than 1000 days for an ophthalmology consultation, almost 900 days for an orthopaedic consultation or 560 days for a neurosurgery consultation. Those who do not smile, too, are the cancer patients, who have a growing difficulty in accessing surgery, treatment and even examinations. Those who do not smile, yet, are the patients who wait more and more for an operation and who accumulate on increasingly long waiting lists. These examples, among many others that could be given, reflect a reality that has nothing to do with the pink world in which the government continues to believe. The Democratic Social Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party know - well! The difference, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we denounce and do not compact, while these parties pretend to be concerned but eventually they always end up but always giving the hand to those who say they criticize. [[PSD applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Mr José de Matos Rosa, my party colleague and Chairman of the Health Committee, said, the PSD is available for this debate. If we are proud to have done the current Health Bases Act, we also recognize the time elapsed and that in these 30 years new problems, new rights and new challenges have emerged, to which they meet answers, also innovative and progressive. We will therefore make our contribution, our constructive response, as a personalist, humanist and reformist party, to the new basic health law that is being produced by this Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Members, for the PSD, first are the people, first is Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u124	Having no requests for clarification, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Block on the Left by the initiative, which has already been a valid contribution to a debate that is imposed on Portuguese society, which is almost 40 years since the creation of the National Health Service. The National Health Service is an indelible brand of Portuguese democracy, played by Dr. António Arnaut, a major reference of the Socialist Party and our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is a way to honor your legacy is to respect the work you devoted to until the end of your forces, both in the book you wrote together with Dr. João Semedo — which I once again take advantage of to greet, with a feeling of friendship and admiration — as well as in the advised advice you gave to the working group, which, within the Government, has prepared a study for the new basic law, and also as a source of permanent inspiration that has always been, and will continue to be, for the programmatic matrix of the Socialist Party with regard to public health policies. And it is this matrix, and not another one, that has guided the government's action. in this legislation, we have achieved much: the reduction of 25 % in the overall amount of moderate rates; the revision of the system of exemption of moderate rates, for example firefighters and blood donors; the normal working period of 35 hours per week, from 1 July 2018, for all health professionals; the revision of the non-emergency transport regime of patients; the cross-border wage replacement to the entire Public Administration; the reversal of the transfer to the mercy of the hospitals of Fundão, Santo Tirso and São João da Madeira ; the repeal of the door that closed some emergency services and determined the reduction of the valences of some hospitals. Besides this, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, we made the most significant hiring of professionals, 94% being the Portuguese percentage with a family doctor and 96% the target by the end of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members : The National Health Service is even a collective project. We have no doubt! The collective experience of the National Health Service is already more than enough for the PSD to review its position. The CDS, 40 years later, recognized the merits of the National Health Service — sooner than ever! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have an absolute commitment to the Portuguese, always in respect of the Constitution, that no basic law can jeopardise the access of all citizens to health care, regardless of their economic condition, ensuring rational and efficient coverage throughout the country. The proposal of the working group appointed by the Government, in some respects, is even more guaranteed. In order to ensure timely access to adequate health services in areas that may not be provided by the public sector, there may be recourse to sectors of the social and private economy and professionals in a liberal system or professional groups, in accordance with transparent and efficient management, taking into account available resources. in the bill of the Left Block, the private health sector, without or for profit, and professionals under liberal regime develop their activity in complementarity with the public sector. It seems clear to me that the preliminary proposal of the working group, which is not a legislative initiative, is now more guaranteed for the National Health Service. In conclusion, our proposal will be a legislative proposal in the future and will certainly be more demanding in the use of the private sector. The so-called public-private partnerships also enter into Base XI paragraph 4 of the left block bill. We will certainly be prepared to do a consensus work and that will strengthen the law of future bases. Today's debate is just another step in a path led by all who have never stopped being next to the National Health Service. We knew how to build the necessary commitments to offer the country a new basic law, in which all Portuguese see each other. Here too, as in other matters, I am sure that, with everyone's commitment, it will be possible to make a new law of bases, a valuable legacy of this legislature — I repeat, this legislation — filled with social achievements and recovery of rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u126	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already stated today that the Government has all the instruments to respond to the problems identified in the National Health Service. It is not the current Health Bases Act that is impeding the resolution of the problems arising from the political options of successive governments, of de-investment in the National Health Service, but rather the lack of political will of the Government, which insists, by option, not to take the effective and exceptional measures that are necessary. We consider that the current Health Bases Act is very negative, which is contrary to the spirit of the constitutional principle of the right to health, universal and general, of quality and for all, and that it has completely unlocked the door to the health business and to the progressive transfer of public services to private management, with everything perverse that it has, with the transfer of public resources that should be channeled to the National Health Service, being the public service itself to collect customers for the private, ensuring them bad profits at the cost of health and the well-being of users. For capitalism, everything that is essential to life is capable of being mercantilized and seen as more a highly lucrative business, such as health or water. The current Health Bases Act deserves our total disagreement. There must indeed be a new basic health law. The question is whether, politically speaking, the conditions for a progressive change of law are met, taking back the values of April and the constitutional principles, which put an end to promiscuity between the public and the private and which strengthens the National Health Service, or for even worse change. And, knowing the positions of PS, PSD and CDS — the political options of these parties when they took up governance functions — it is important to know whether the path will be the appreciation of the National Health Service or the benefit of the interests of private health groups. But we would also like to know whether the PS is available to converge with the strengthening of the SNS, ending the interests of the economic groups, or whether, like the work matter, it will converge with PSD and CDS. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we did at the time of the discussion of the current Health Bases Act, in which we intervened with our own legislative initiative, we will also now act autonomously and constructively with concrete proposals. We defend the strengthening and appreciation of the National Health Service, with the ability to respond to the health needs of users throughout the national territory. We will not follow any perspective based on the logic of the so-called « national health system », where the public and the private are placed on the same footing as if they had the same objectives and pursued the same purposes. The interest of the public is to provide quality care to the users in good time, already the interest of the private is profit. The logic of the functioning of the public service is that of health, while in private it is that of the disease. We admit the relationship with the private as strictly necessary, transitionally and as long as the SNS does not have a response, but the solution goes by increasing the capacity of the public service. in our perspective, the private is complementary and for what is strictly necessary, it is not a complement. We defend the end of promiscuity between public and private. We defend the removal of all obstacles that prevent access to health care and free of charge to all citizens. This alone ensures that there are no inequalities and that all users, regardless of their economic and social conditions, are treated under the same conditions and with the same quality. in this sense, the purely moderate rates should be abolished and the transport of non-emergency patients should be ensured to all users who need access to health. We defend the social, professional and remuneration worth of health professionals. A quality SNS defends itself respecting the rights of health professionals and valuing their careers. We express our willingness and commitment to this discussion. Consents or convergence are not built on abstracts, but on concrete policy options. They can count on the PCP towards strengthening and valuing the SNS, ending the PPPs and the progressive transfer of services to the private, removing all obstacles that prevent access to health, such as moderate rates, and valuing health professionals and their careers. The commitment that the CFP undertakes today, for the future, as it has assumed in the past, is with users, with health professionals, with the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u128	With no further inscriptions, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares now has the floor to close this debate, which resulted from a marking of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the PSD parliamentary bench, because none of its Members or Members have used the term « national health system », which is already a major step forward in the prejudice of the party President Rui Rio. [[PSD protests.]] But there are congratulations, because the PSD wanted to come to this whole debate on the basis of a lie. However, as Antonio Alexo tells us, even for a lie to be safe you have to have some truth background, and that is not how the PSD managed to do. He came to say that the Left Block is now proposing something different from what he proposed in the past, when clearly he did not read, or he did not want to read, what we presented in the past. But I do read, sirs. Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u130	So, read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u131	We introduced two bills. We introduced Bill No. 433 / VIII ( 2. ( a ) — Basics of Health Act ( BE ), which states in Base XLI, paragraph 4, that « Hire with private entities the provision of health care to the beneficiaries of the National Health Service (...) provided that no other unit of the National Health Service (...) can perform the service(...) » — supplementary character, non competitive character. We presented another bill, Bill No. 435... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u132	It is paragraph 433 / VIII ( 2. ( a)!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u133	Mrs. Members, I have already read you draft law No 433 / VIII ( 2. ( a ), repeat, Base XLI, paragraph 4. If you want to read, it's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u134	We'll read next!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u135	We also introduced Bill No. 435 / VIII ( 2. ( a ) — Law of separation between public and private health sectors ( BE ), where it is said that « the performance of SNS functions requires the exercise of the activities of their professionals under separation in relation to private practice of medicine(...) ». Mrs. Members, there is no doubt as to what the Left Block defends. No one has them here in this room, and no one has them in the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u136	What about Base XLVII? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u137	They were caught in the corner!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u138	But we know well what the proposal, or the will, of the PSD and the CDS, in the current Basics Law, I read. What was the objective they proposed? Assign to the State the obligation, and I quote, of the development of the private sector for the provision of health care in competition with the public sector. According to the PSD and CDS, it is the State responsible for the development of the private sector, in competition with the SNS. But I continue:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u139	It's not worth it! We've got an umpire here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u140	... this '(...) support can be translated, inter alia, into facilitating the mobility of the National Health Service staff who wish to work in the private sector, creating incentives for the creation of private units and the reserve of allowances for internment beds in each health region. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is the sacrifice of the person, on behalf of the business and profit of the private! It's forcing the SNS to dig his grave, I repeat, his grave! [[Congratulations from BE.]] This is the proposal of the current Basics, PSD and CDS Act, which provides full legal coverage so that the SNS budget is a warehouse to finance the private health business. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u141	Not even video referrer there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u142	So the question is obvious and clear: do we need a new law of health bases that ends this little shame? The answer, given by Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo, is unequivocal: "Yes, we need a new law of health bases, because we have to end this bloody SNS resources." Almost 500 million euros are diverted from SNS to PPPs... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and 40 % of the annual SNS budget shall be delivered to private persons. When there are people who are without health care, when there are economic barriers to access to health care in the SNS, this happens because of this and this has to be changed. So, what was the time you opened? The time of defense of António Arnaut's proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u143	The proposal is not from António Arnaut!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u144	... or the time of demagogy, when, in the acts, they saw the backs of Antonio Arnaut to hand over Rui Rio? Oh, my God! We are not sure about the answers to these questions, because even though there are several socialists who have a position in defense of the SNS, as we have heard today, we do not know how the leadership of the PS and the government themselves respond. And that is why, in order not to disappoint the bloggers or the socialists who believe in the SNS, nor the country who believes in the SNS, we will request the bill to be dropped to the Commission without a vote, so that it is not the Socialist Party to help the right to reject the proposal of António Arnaut.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u145	The proposal is not from António Arnaut!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u146	It is we know, and we do not forget, that Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo delivered their bill to their parties, but today we are only discussing the bill of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u147	We're not in a race!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u148	We know, and we do not forget, that they did so in time and that this debate has been announced and scheduled in time, but neither the government nor the Minister of Health is here! We know and record all this, but be sure we don't go back, because we know that Antonio Arnaut and John Semedo are right and that it is worth fighting for what they proposed. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u149	I ask you to conclude Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. from the part of the Left Block, this is the fight we do, so that, in this legislature, the dream of Arnaut is re-established and his effort, with John Semedo, is not in vain. Let's hope there's a majority in this house that doesn't turn their backs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u152	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u153	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u154	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u155	Mr President, one of the issues discussed here was the 2001 Left Block legislative initiatives. I would like to ask Mr. President to distribute draft law No. 433 / VIII of 2001 from the Left Block, which at the LX Base refers to the relationship between the public sector, the private sector and the social sector. This is just for a reminder!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u156	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u157	Mr President, may I also use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u158	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u159	Mr President, I would like to ask that the XLI Base be distributed as well as the opinion of the National Council of Life Sciences Ethics on this legislative initiative, because it says there taxively that the Left Block has defended and defends the suppletive and non-competitive character.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u160	But it has to be pointed, to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u161	Let us make an effort so that all of this is distributed, in fact, I ask the services to take due note. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, the second item on our agenda concerns motion for a resolution No 69 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016, which does not have time for discussion. The third point concerns motion for a resolution No 70 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Establishment and Operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, signed in Vienna on 1 June 1993 in the wording given by its Third Amendment, signed in Rhodes on 25 June 2003, which does not have time for debate either. The fourth and final point is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask the services to initiate the electronic system for the verification of the quorum of deliberation and, in the meantime, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to take account of a legislative initiative which he has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1729 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to investigate the procedures followed in the case of children who will have been irregularly referred for adoption as well as current procedures for adoption and promotion and protection of children and young people ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed with the electronic registration for the purpose of checking the quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 196 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the CFP Carla Cruz and Paulo Sá, of Mrs. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the PS Elza Pais and Nuno Sá and the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto, making 201 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 565 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Despite the death of the architect Vasco Morais Soares, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. I take advantage of it to point out that the family of the architect Vasco Morais Soares, which I greet, is located in the galleries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u164	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 6, at the age of 78, the architect Vasco Morais Soares. Born in 1940, in Porto, Vasco Morais Soares was the son of the architect Mário Candido Soares, whose course would inspire his own formation. Three decades later, he would eventually form himself at the School of Fine Arts of the Port, in 1971, assuming four years later the office of Architecture of his own father, after his return from Angola, where, newly licensed, he performed functions in the Office of Public Works of Luanda. throughout his life he developed a work marked essentially by versatility. Its features are spread throughout the city of Porto, in such distinct areas as hotels, urbanism or industry. Morais Soares is both due to the rehabilitation and valorization of the iconic Bookshop Lello as the projection of the new Church of Ramalde in Porto. of the various positions he carried out throughout his life, the Portuguese architect distinguished himself at the service of the four directorates of the Association of Portuguese Architects, between 1975 and 2000, having chaired the Regional Council of the North, from 1987 to 1989, and the Bureau of the General Assembly in the term of office 1993 - 1995. Their role in coordinating the statutory review, in organizing the referendum on the professional class as regards the designation of ‘order’ and voting of the status of the entity was worth the distinction in 2014 with the title of Honorary Member of the Order of Architects. Active militant and member of the CDS-PP Senate, reactivated at the last Congress of the Party, served for several years as deputy to the Municipal Assembly of Porto, where he always stood out by unusual culture, prospective capacity and deep knowledge that characterized his interventions and, above all, by a huge devotion to the public cause and the city of Porto. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of the architect Vasco Morais Soares, to whom it expresses its homage, and transmits its deep solidarity to his family and to all its closest members. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The death of the Honorary Consul John Martins, one presented by PS and one presented by PSD. Let us begin by voting No 571/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of the Honorary Consul John Martins, presented by PS, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u166	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 15th, at the age of 54, the Honorary Consul of Portugal in Los Angeles, John Carlos Martins, was a figure of great prestige and one of the pillars of the Portuguese community in southern California, USA. Born on the third island, Azores, John Martins emigrated with his family to the United States in 1966. The entrepreneur held the position of President of the Municipal Chamber of Artesia, in Los Angeles, between 2004 and 2010, having served as mayor of the same authority, between 2001 and 2003. Since 2015 he had served as a Consul Honorary of Portugal in Los Angeles. last May, on the Day of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, John Martins received the Autonomic Insignia of Recognition for his successful business journey and for the work for the Azorian community based in the United States. John Martins, in addition to a successful businessman, a politician dedicated to the Portuguese community, was also a talented musician. Their generosity, honesty and willingness to help the Portuguese community, as well as their good disposition, will remain forever in memory. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of John Martins, to whom it expresses its honor, and conveys the most sincere condolences to his family and to all his closest. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 575/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the death of John Martins, presented by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « John Martins passed away, which was one of the most significant parts of the Portuguese community on the west coast of the United States. Born on the third island, in the Azores, he emigrated very young to the United States, where he had a professional and public career of enormous success. He was President of the Municipal Chamber of Artesia, a city on the outskirts of Los Angeles, where he also developed a significant business, social and cultural activity within the local society, in which there is a large Portuguese community. He has always been a man deeply committed to the disclosure of Portugal, of his historical and cultural values, supporting the internationalization of national companies, which justified his appointment to Consul Honorary of Portugal in Los Angeles. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of John Martins and conveys his condolences to his family and friends. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The following vote No 570/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — From greeting to the beach football team of the Sporting Club of Braga, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP Members, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It took place in Portugal, in Nazaré, between May 25 and June 3 of the year, Euro Winners Cup, the largest international beach football test, with more than 150 games distributed over 10 days of competition, during which the best players of the modality on a global scale, in the male and female sections, marked presence in our country for the second consecutive year. After a trial with great difficulty and an epic final, in which the formation of the Sporting Club of Braga defeated the Russian team of the BSC Kristall — European champion in 2014 and 2015 — in the great penalties, after a result of 3-3 in regulatory time and a non-goalless extension, the Stadium of Viveiro, on the beach of Nazaré, saw the minhot formation revalidate the title won in the previous year and thus sanctified European bicampaan. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes, in particular, the participating athletes, but also the Sporting Club of Braga, by betting on an emerging mode in Portugal and by the conditions given to the athletes to achieve this result of great prestige. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 572 / XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Condemning the separation of migrant children from their families in the United States of America, submitted by the PAN and BE and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u172	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Changes in immigration policies in the United States of America on 6 April this year led to more than 2500 children, mainly from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, being separated from their families and placed in detention camps. According to information coming to the public, after separation there is no possibility of contacting children with their families. In addition, between October and December 2017, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services admitted to having lost the track to 1500 minors ( a total of 7635 ) who were under its supervision. This policy of separation of families and the failures in the monitoring system increases the exposure of these minors to dangers that may jeopardise their physical and psychological integrity, such as organ and human trafficking networks. In short, we are faced with disturbing practices of family unity that disrespect the drafting and spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Declaration of the Rights of the Child. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the separation of migrant children from their families in the United States of America and urges Portuguese officials to do everything to pressure the authorities of that country to put an end to these unacceptable policies, outraged by any civilized society and attacks on human rights and children. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]] We turn to vote No 573/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the separation of children from their parents and their detention at centres on the border of the United States of America with Mexico, presented by PS, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u174	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The dissemination of images of children detained in metal cages, separated from their parents, at the border of the United States with Mexico, are shocking and constitute a flagrant attack on international treaties and conventions for the protection of human rights. Since it was announced by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the ‘zero tolerance’ policy against illegal immigration, were separated from their parents about 2000 children only in the last six weeks prior to the beginning of June. in the United States and in many parts of the world there has been a wave of indignation against these practices that harm the physical and mental integrity of children, with calls for a rapid end to them. The former Lady Laura Bush considered the ‘zero tolerance’ policy ‘ cruel and immoral’ and the United Nations urged the United States to end separation with the strength of children and their parents and evoked the Association of American Pediatrics, which considers that such practice can cause irreparable harm with consequences for the whole life of children. The separation of children from their parents constitutes a clear violation of the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Children, proclaimed in November 1959, and of the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the UN General Assembly in November 1989. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the separation of children from their parents and their detention in centres within the framework of the policy of ‘zero tolerance’ against illegal immigration in the United States and calls for the end of these cruel and inhuman practices and for the rapid creation of the conditions for families to be reunited. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to vote No 577 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemnation by the division of families and detention of migrant children in detention centres at the border between the United States and Mexico, submitted by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u176	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « From Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, and since April 6, when the US changed its immigration policies, 2500 children saw themselves separated from their families and hospitalized in detention buildings. The current immigration policy in the USA, called ‘zero tolerance’ against illegal immigration, not only leads to the separation of children from their parents, but also to the prohibition of physical contacts between children and their families. It is reported and not denied that these children sleep on the ground, with thermal blankets and subject to intense light for 24 hours a day. The separation of families and the inconceivable conditions in which children are left violates all legal instruments relating to the protection of human rights and children. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the unacceptable treatment to which migrant children separated from their families are subjected at the border between the United States and Mexico and leaves a vehement appeal at the end of these inhuman policies and practices. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u177	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 578/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by policies for the violation of the rights of migrants submitted by the CFP, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u178	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The retention of immigrants in detention camps in the United States and, in particular, the detention of children separated from parents constitute a frontal violation of human rights that deserves the most lively condemnation. Having recorded a worsening with the so-called Trump Administration’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy, such practices are not unpublished in the United States. There are well-known prison camps and facilities where thousands of immigrants are detained in the United States, as well as numerous complaints confirming the systemic nature of their policy of exploitative, discriminatory and inhuman immigration. Similarly, human rights abuses are known by successive U.S. administrations such as discrimination and attacks on the rights of different minorities in the US or the maintenance of illegal detention camps outside their territory, of which Guantanamo is an example. But the violation of rights enshrined in the UN Charter, and in conventions such as the rights of children, does not occur only in the United States. There are also unacceptable practices that reveal the inhuman, selective and exploitative character of the European Union's policy for migration and refugees, such as the creation of retention camps in Turkey. Recent developments in the European Union and in the US place the need for concrete measures that uphold the rights of migrants and refugees who are victims of policies based on militarism, war and the resources of developing countries. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the policies and measures of the United States Administration that violate the rights of immigrants, especially children who are separated from their families; condemns the policies of the European Union which disrespect the rights of migrants and refugees, including the policy of setting up detention camps in third countries; and urges the Portuguese Government to propose and fight for measures that defend the rights of migrants in practice. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u179	Mrs. Members, the PS requested the vote on points 1 and 3 together and on point 2 separately. We shall therefore vote on points 1 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the Members of the PS Bachelor of Vasconcelos and Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u180	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u181	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u182	Mr President, it is only to indicate that Mrs Wanda Guimarães and I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u184	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u185	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will deliver a statement of vote on voting Nos 572 / XIII and 578 / XIII.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u186	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We now turn to vote No 579 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Of condemnation and concern about the consequences of US migration policy on minors, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u187	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The images and reports released last June 17 have exposed the consequences of US migration policy which, in order to discourage illegal immigration, separated more than 2000 children from their parents by attempting to illegally cross the border between the United States and Mexico, placing them in detention centres in unacceptable conditions from the human rights perspective and therefore condemned. While the exercise of the legitimate right of the US to protect its borders and to define its public policies is not at stake, the adoption of abusive procedures by the judicial and police authorities against children is unacceptable because they are contrary to the most basic principles of international humanitarian law and attacks on the dignity of the human person. Moreover, practiced by one of the world's largest and oldest democracies. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its condemnation of the adoption by the United States authorities of the procedures described above and its concern at the consequences of such procedures for minors, taking into account the position taken by the United Nations; 2 — Calls for the immediate cessation of these practices by the United States, giving rapid and effective shape to the intention to reverse this practice already announced by the U.S. Administration; 3 — Calls for the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly at the United Nations on 20 November 1989. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed with vote No 574 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings by the Refugee Day, submitted by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u189	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « June 20 marks World Refugee Day as a way to pay tribute to the resistance and strength of all refugees in the world who were forced to flee their homes for persecution, calamity or war. Since 2000, the year the UN instituted the World Refugee Day, which seeks to raise awareness among governments and populations of the serious refugee problem. More than ever, the world needs this awareness. Overall, 68, 5 million people were forced to leave their homes; of these, approximately 25.4 million are refugees, half of whom are minors. in a world where, as a result of conflicts or persecution, every 2 seconds a person is forced to move, the work of the international community is more important than ever. Today's times are troubled times. We have seen the return of policies that call into question fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. We witnessed the return of nationalism, in its most exclusive form, transforming countries into isolation spaces. We watch the policies of repudiation of those who arrive, not because they want to, but because they have no choice. So that in Europe and the US the treatment of refugees and migrants is part of the political agenda — unfortunately, not always for the most humanitarian reasons. It is essential to point out this date and the humanistic value of migration policies that provide dignity to those who seek a better and safer life for themselves and their families. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the commemoration of World Refugee Day and calls for the dignified treatment of all migrants in the world by the reception authorities of asylum seekers and migrants in general. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u190	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then proceed to vote No 576 / XIII ( 3. (a) — Welcoming the removal of the trans identities of the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization, submitted by the NAP, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last June 18, 2018, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) announced the removal of trans identities from the list of « Mental and Behavioral Disorders » of the International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ). The last structural review of this document took place in 1989, 28 years ago, so its update constitutes a historic step forward in this area, laying the foundations for a new era of reparation for the damages and injustices to which trans and gender diverse people throughout the world were subjected. With this decision, the international community of human rights activists and acclaimed by European organisations such as Transgender Europe and ILGA-Europe, WHO and its 194 Member States have already been very much keen to contribute actively to the reduction of stigma and discrimination based on gender identity and expression, showing that they are also on the alert to follow further changes that may be necessary in this regard, particularly in relation to children and young trans. Thus, meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its satisfaction at the removal of the trans identities of the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization, calling for this update to be rapidly implemented in Portugal, with the clear guarantee of the existence of accessible and human rights-respecting health care in our country. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u192	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u193	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u194	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u195	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u196	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on an application submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission, without voting for a period of 120 days, of Bill No 914 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — New Basic Health Law ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 9. the Commission for 120 days. We shall then vote on motion for a resolution 69 / XIII ( 3 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 70/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Establishment and Operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, signed in Vienna on 1 June 1993 in the wording of its Third Amendment, signed in Rhodes on 25 June 2003. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u197	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u198	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u199	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP intends to make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u200	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u201	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u202	It is to indicate that we will present a declaration of vote in writing on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u203	Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1572 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification at the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso ( PCP ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Members Joaquim Barreto, Maria Augusta Santos, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution goes down to 8. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1611 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of School EB 2 / 3 Professor Gonçalo Sampaio in Póvoa de Lannoso ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and PS Members Joaquim Barreto, Maria Augusta Santos, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos and PS and PS abstentions.]] This draft resolution goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u204	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u205	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u206	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote of the two draft resolutions we will present on behalf of the Parliamentary Group a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u207	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u208	Mr President, with regard to this last draft resolution, I would like to inform the House that the PSD Members elected by the Braga electoral circle will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1573/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works at the High School of Amares ( PCP ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Members Joaquim Barreto, Maria Augusta Santos, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u210	Mr President, I ask you again to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u211	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u212	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote on the last draft resolution we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u213	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1598 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out works at the Basic School 2 / 3 D. Carlos I, Sintra ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 534 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Museum and full operation of the Museum of the Lorvão Monastery ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 544 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Valuation and promotion of the Lorvão Monastery ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1554 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the financing of ANIM — National Archive of Images on Movement ( BE ), for which the PS calls for the separate vote of point 2, point 3, and then the votes of points 1, 4, 5 and 6. So let's start by voting point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 4, 5 and 6 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1566 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to restore the monastery of Santa Maria de Semide ( PSD ). [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Deactivation of funds from the budget of the Health Regulatory Entity ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, the votes against the PS and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u214	Mr President, I call on you to announce that I shall immediately deliver a written statement of vote on draft resolution No 1623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1386 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to recognize the informality of the traditional carnival dances and leases of the Third Island in respect of the payment of copyright ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1716 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the evaluation of means of incentive and protection of original and non-profit cultural events ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1689/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently undertake the work necessary to re-qualify the Territorial Post of the GNR of Oliveira do Bairro ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a more favourable tax and contribution scheme for maritime transport activity and a special system for determining collectable matter based on tonnage of vessels (the Government withdrew its initiative in favour of this text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the vote on the speciality of this final text, we shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality, within the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote on the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members follow the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 374 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support ( second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July ) ( PCP ) and 772 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July, with respect to the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support, as well as the requirement to review the law within a year ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on draft law No 743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the Tax Authority ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 79 to 91 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 29 and 30 May 2018. [[Put to the vote, approved unanimously.]] We also have an opinion from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u216	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, 6. the Central Court of Lisbon, Case No 30664 / 16.7T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, delivered an opinion to authorize Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe to give an oral vote by the CFP Parliamentary Group. I would like to begin by thanking you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The statement of vote concerns motion for a resolution No 70 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) approving the Agreement on the Establishment and Operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. As regards migration policy, there could be the expectation that the assessment of a motion for a resolution in the Assembly of the Republic might be relevant, given the urgency of the question of migration in the European Union and the concerns that legitimately give rise to attitudes that have been taken by countries of the European Union in this regard. However, what we are talking about in this motion for a resolution is just a matter of adopting merely timely amendments, I would say almost intent, adopted 15 years ago, in 2003, on an intergovernmental organization of which little has been heard and which was created 25 years ago by Switzerland because of the concern it had with migration from eastern Europe. at a time when the issue of migration is so pressing and raises such fundamental questions from the point of view of the dignity of the human person, what is brought here for discussion is an absolutely irrelevant issue related to migration policy. We would like to point out this fact and from there our abstention in the vote on a motion for a resolution which is almost unusual to be brought to the House of the Republic at a time like this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-22.u219	It made the statement of an oral vote by the CFP Parliamentary Group, which remains to be reflected on the agenda of the next plenary meeting, which will take place on Wednesday, 27 June, beginning at 3 p.m., with a debate required by the PSD on policies for childhood and birth. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our work, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 50 minutes.]]
