ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we come to the fundamental point of our agenda, I would ask the honourable Members. Members who do not forget that the election of an effective member and an alternate member for the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic is taking place in Conference Room D. Maria during our session. We will then start the debate by marking the PSD on « tax and price policies for fuels ». To open the debate, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese live today, with suffering and indignation, the nightmare of the price of fuels. The tax bill beats all the records. The Portuguese pay today, May 24, 2018, per litre, 14 cent more gas taxes and 9 cents in gasoline, compared to February 11, 2016, day before the most spectacular increase in fuel taxes ever recorded in Portugal. The Portuguese pay today, May 24, 2018, 72 cents in gas oil tax, when on February 11, 2016 they had already delivered 59 cents to the State. The Portuguese pay today, May 24, 2018, 95 cents in gasoline tax per litre, when on February 11, 2016 they had already delivered 86 cents to the State. The Portuguese paid in ISP ( Petroleum and Energy Products Tax) plus EUR 395 million in 2016, compared with 2015, plus EUR 447 million in 2017 and by the end of 2018 the value will largely exceed EUR 500 million. There will be at least 1350 million more for the government and at least in the citizens' pocket. The Portuguese pay today the most expensive fuels in Europe. The Portuguese pay today more than 13 cents in gasoline and 26 cents in gasoline than the Spaniards, when they previously paid more than 9 and 19 cents, respectively. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the faithful portrait of austerity concealed at the service of a gluton government, insatiable in the collection of taxes, and that everything did, and nothing was opposed, for the Portuguese to find themselves in this desperate situation which calls into question families and the overwhelming majority of businesses. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the hungry miracle of the government! It has a number: EUR 1350 million. He has faces: PS, PCP and Left Block. He has a victim: the taxpayer. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a treacherous manipulation exercise. The government promised that if the price goes up, the tax goes down. Now, the price went up and the government lied. The Government broke a trust agreement with the country in February 2016, when it increased fuel taxes by 7, 4 cents, 6 ISP and 1, 4 VAT ( value added tax ). The Government had as its objective, and I quote, «to adjust the price of petroleum products to the reduction of VAT charged by litre of fuel, given the oscillation of the international quote of fuels ». On those days, Minister Eduardo Cabrita said: «The Government undertakes to undertake quarterly revisions of the value of the ISP » and this « is the appropriate mechanism for market volatility ». Fernando Rocha Andrade, now a Member of Parliament, at the time State Secretary for Tax Affairs, even said categorically: « 4 cents of fuel increase allow 1 cent to be reduced ». They called it a principle of fiscal neutrality. The mountain bet a mouse soon in 2016. Fuels rose 19 cents in gasoline and 16 in gasoline and the government reduced only 2 in gasoline and 1 in gasoline. The remaining 4 cents were kept in the Government's pocket, at an estimated deviation of more than EUR 250 million. In 2017, no mountain, no mouse, no mouse! The government decided to find a successor, a new model to replace what had not been achieved: professional gas oil. The Prime Minister has still dared to say here that, and I quote: « in 2017, the State budget does not provide for the quarterly review because it provides for the maintenance of professional gas oil ». The government noted that 1000 companies were the same thing as 10 million citizens. With the prices of the fuels to be raised, there were many millions of reasons for this to happen. The government has changed the rules of the game, addicted to the greatest tax burden of all time, in a inclined field and always turning against the Portuguese. Not a word, not much less honest! The appropriate mechanism and quarterly revisions have disappeared. Everything's gone except for the very strong increase in taxes. The Portuguese are suffering much more because of the government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is false, roundly false, absurd indeed, what was said here yesterday about price variation does not find an explanation for tax reasons. They are unfounded statements that serve only to cover the decisions and responsibilities of some. It is obvious that the price of fuels rises in part by the evolution of the cost of oil, but rises in part by a greater majority by the value of taxes charged. By reference to the average annual prices, if we compare 2018 to 2015, it is recorded that 75 % of the increase in the price of diesel has an explanation in variations in ISP and VAT and that for gasoline is 68 %. Markets have their effects — yes, yes. These are exogenous effects that the country cannot influence or dominate, whether the production of OPEC ( Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ), the evolution of the Chinese economy, the exchange rate changes or any other reason that causes strong fluctuations in the price. But the country can, yes, dominate the tax bill, which was used indiscriminately and which today is responsible for much of what is happening. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : These decisions lead to losses for families, businesses, the economy, the country. No one escapes when the fuels rise — neither rich nor poor, nor great nor small, they all suffer, suffering more who is weaker, who has less income. These policies, this government's fuel policy, only expand social inequalities, since these indirect taxes are by nature regressive. A robust, competitive economy does not impose a tax burden on intolerable fuel levels, especially in a country where the business fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises is fragile, in which Portuguese have little purchasing power and where competitiveness should be promoted and does not disappear. What is this if not pure and harsh austerity? Worse: stubborn austerity, insidious in form, pernicious in effects, anesthetizing its recipients when prices were low, but now revealing, in the worst possible way, all their cruelty when prices rise. [[PSD applause.]] For this reason, the PSD delivered yesterday a draft resolution to ensure that the government is beginning to fulfil its commitments with the country: that it fulfils fiscal neutrality; that it immediately lowers the tax on petroleum products as a result of the excess revenue collection, as has been observed in 2018 with successive revisions to higher prices. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u3	Portuguese should not pay more than what results from market developments. It's up to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of the side on which they want to remain: whether of the Portuguese who find justice as far as the PSD proposes, if a government that has deceived and punished them, without mercy, condemning them to live a reality that they always deny them; if of the Portuguese who have the right to a reduction in the ISP, if the Government that rejects this reduction and still has the discharge, as the Prime Minister here has done yesterday, to test, with little conviction, the falsity that the tax burden has been reduced in fuel; if of the Portuguese who have seen their legitimate expectations frustrated, if of a government that has failed them, without reason, without loyalty and transparency, always sitting on successive achievements, in the hope that the confrontation with reality never takes place; if of the Portuguese who today, in view of the price of the fuels, live a time of difficulty, if the Government that does not, and does not ignore the situation - if the situation is ignored. at the bottom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to choose whether you stand by the truth or the lie, repair or gross injustice. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u4	Mr President, the Bureau received two entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u5	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u6	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cristovão Norte, I would like to begin by stressing that my parliamentary group is sensitive to this matter of fuel and to the increase in prices due to the effect it has on the lives of citizens. There is no doubt about it! I would also like to tell the honourable Member that, in his speech, he did not clearly say what he should have said. If it is true that the price of fuels is affected by the tax burden, it is also true that that price of fuels is affected, and much, by the price of the raw material. Mr President, you have hidden what we also know, and that the Portuguese citizens know, because it is daily news, that the raw material component in the oil price in May 2015 was 38, 5 %, but in May 2018 it is already 44, 5 %, as far as gas oil is concerned, and 35 %, as far as gasoline is concerned. That is, there has clearly been a rise in the price of the raw material which has affected the price of fuels. The second point I would like to leave is that one of the substantial concerns of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this subject, but not only on the matter of fuel, has to do with two essential issues: the available income of Portuguese citizens and the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. These were, in fact, two lines that have guided the action of the Socialist Party Government in recent times. Mr, we remember very well how we found the country in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u8	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u9	We found the country in 2015 with the highest tax burden the Portuguese ever bore.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u10	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u11	We found the Country in 2015 with growth difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We found the country in 2015 with the Portuguese completely impoverished. We found the country with difficulties of competitiveness. And the effort we've made over the years... [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Mrs. Member, let me finish! The effort we have made over the past few years has been to restore the available income of families and Portuguese and to ensure increased competitiveness. Mr Cristovão Norte, I would like to leave two notes that you did not mention. First, in 2015, in the ranking of competitiveness, that you like to talk about, Portugal occupied 36. the position, in 2018, takes up 33. a. We therefore went beyond this effort to increase the competitiveness of the country. More on the income available, Mr. Member, in 2015, the income of Portuguese families was €29, €578, in 2018, is €30, €725. We increased the income available to families!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u12	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u13	And this is no less matter! It is in this mix of policies that we introduce that it is possible to increase available income and competitiveness and not just to look at what is a fire that gives headlines in newspapers and that actually makes this irresponsible populist policy of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would therefore like to tell the honourable Member that what matters to the Portuguese is what they buy, what they acquire from the money they have and, with regard to fuels, it is good for you to clarify what you want to do differently in this House. I've already shown a graph, but I think I'll have to show it again: what fuel can the Portuguese buy with 20 €? If you look at the chart, you will see that there are many amendments. Of course there are ups and downs but in May 2012 the Portuguese bought 13, 3 liters of diesel and in 2108 they bought 14, 6 liters, i.e. buy more than they bought during your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u14	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u15	This is essential for Portuguese: available income. But there is more, sir. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Sir, look at this chart, it's not invented! During the years of your governance, between 2011 and 2015, do you know what the average price of gas oil was? The average price of gas oil for consumers was 1, 34 €. Do you know the average price of gas oil in this PS government? It's 1, 24 €. This is what the Portuguese want and we are making an effort to ensure that they do not lose their income available, which you have not done for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But there is more, sir. I wanted to end by asking concrete questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u16	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u17	I'm done now, Mr. President. Time is global, it can be discounted, I think...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u18	It is, Mr, but the convention that was established at the Conference of Leaders is that, under these circumstances, the questions have twice the normal regiment time, i.e. 4 minutes, and there are already more than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u19	I just need 30 seconds, Mr President, to ask Mr Cristovão Norte a few questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u20	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u21	We have taken several measures, with regard to fuels, over the course of time: we have created the moratorium on biofuels, to prevent it from growing, what you have not done, keeping the gas oil cheaper; we have managed to create the low cost supply stations—we have done it! — ; we created the professional gas oil... [[PSD protests.]] ... and the question I want to ask you is this: what are the measures you have taken during your government? I am sorry that you did not mention in your speech, nor did you mention what the Government of the Republic asked the Competition Authority to do. In January 2017 — and I hope that you will answer this question — the Socialist Party's Government asked the Competition Authority to assess what was going on with the fuel marketing margins, which, as you know, is an important factor, and which have risen from 2011 to 2016 from 19 % to almost 30 %. Mr Deputy, between January 2017 until today there was no reply by the Competition Authority. [[PSD protests.]] I ask you, Mr President, whether you are available to support the Socialist Party's request to call on the Competition Authority to assess these reasons and to know why it has not yet responded. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your self-reliance to comply with the rules we have been applying. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cristovão Norte, the approach which the PSD has made in opening this debate to the problem of fuel prices has certainly raised two perplexities. The first has to do with the total absence in your speech of all reality beyond tax matters. The honourable Member has completely ignored and ignored the reality of what is happening in the sector, in the value chain of fuels and in the energy sector as a whole, from the problem of price formation and the lack of transparency of the great interests of economic power, both above and beyond borders, to this concrete reality that occurs in our country with the scandalous profits that are heaped on by large oil companies at the cost of the sacrifices of millions of people and micro and small businesses. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u24	The second perplexity has to do with the profound difference between the performance of the PSD when it is in the government and when it is out of it. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u25	You, in successive PSD and PSD/CDS governments, liquidated the public sector and handed it over to the interests of the oil economic groups. You have liberalized prices — I have here Portaria No. 1423 - F / 2003, signed by Manuela Ferreira Leite and Carlos Tavares, to greatly value the competition and benefits that price liberalisation would have for consumers and the economy — and have left the oil industry free, systematically increased the ISP when they were in the government, have increased this tax already in the previous government and, Mr. Member, in a context with a particular high price trend, at high prices, you imposed a new increase through the introduction of the carbon rate in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u26	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u27	It is that when they introduced the carbon rate in 2014 they made an increase in the ISP that penalized populations and businesses. While the honourable Member is making his diatrics about what is happening to a part of reality, does he not know that the profits of the GALP — speaking only of this company — grew by 25 % in 2017, to EUR 602 million, and in the fourth quarter the rise of profits was 54 %? Oh, my God! I ask you, Mr President, what is the motivation for the PSD to try to ignore and hide this reality of the scandalous profits of the economic groups, which are being weighed down at the cost of the sacrifice of people and the real economy. Why don't you guys talk about this? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u28	To reply, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put forward and, from the outset, to say that I am composed of the extraordinary sensitivity of Mr Carlos Pereira. We learned that the PS has a lot of sensitivity to the matter, but nothing does about it. [[PSD applause.]] [[Well, no more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u30	And, worse than that, you did the same exercise as Mr Bruno Dias. in the background, this matter is explained by the markets and by international evolution, and nothing, nothing of what happens is the responsibility of the government! It's the government's responsibility! 14 cents of gasoline and 9 cents of gasoline result from taxation. In two years, this represented more than EUR 1350 million in ISP and we are still about to determine what this will represent in VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u31	Tax revenue is one thing, tax burden is another!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u32	But it is also important to say that Mr Bruno Dias is making a big diatribe in relation to companies but forgets what is here: 75 % of the increase in gas oil and 68% in petrol is explained by the taxation and the idea that you are talking about. Members want to go through it is that the Government that supports nothing has to do with this. This is an absolutely unfounded idea, endorsed in the distorted form as Mr Prime Minister presented this matter to Parliament yesterday in the 15-year debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u33	It is important to say more, Mr. Carlos Pereira : Mr. Prime Minister at the end of 2017 promised that he would make changes in 2018 and that he would internalize costs on fuels. I was expecting two things: firstly, that the PS should, of course, remove this idea of tax increase—as should also be done by the parties that support the government—but on the other hand, that it should think of the Congress that has for the week and the sensitivity of the matter and review its guidance on this. It is that this is a achievement that corroborates the trust of citizens and is an unfulfilled, illegitimate promise by the government. I mean, to conclude, the Portuguese are suffering a lot from this increase. You have to get your hands on it. This matter cannot be treated with this disregard, this disrespect, this passivity. Now look at the Portuguese and make decisions, so that this matter is reversed and the Portuguese have a better life. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u34	Before giving the floor to the Member who is registered, I would remind everyone who is electing an effective member and an alternate member for the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic. Please do not forget that vote. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2016, before a price of historic but transiently low oil, the Socialist Party's Government decided to increase the tax on gasoline and diesel in 6 cents per litre. When the government presented this overtax it was justified by saying that it did so with a view to fiscal neutrality, that is to say, raising the tax on fuels to recover what was being lost in revenue from VAT. On the day of the submission of this measure, the Minister of Finance promised the Portuguese that the increase in the tax on petrol and gasoline would compensate for exactly what was lost in VAT. The principle is that of fiscal neutrality."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u36	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u37	on February 12, 2016, Prime Minister Antonio Costa promised the fiscal neutrality of this tax increase. on February 18, the then State Secretary for Tax Affairs guaranteed the same principle. He said: « This is the commitment we have made and that is what we intend to do: maintaining fiscal neutrality ». Until Mr Galamba, of the Socialist Party, one of his typical and heated shots, said: « The tax was calibrated so that prices were lower than what existed on 1 January 2016 ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know today that the fiscal neutrality announced by the Government and the Socialist Party does not occur. According to UTAO calculations for 2016, and using the same calculation method for 2017 and 2018, the State has already raised 600 million euros above the promised fiscal neutrality. This means that this increase in taxes was all less neutral, either for the state's safes or, above all, for the Portuguese pockets. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This means that this increase in taxes meant a sack of about 600 million euros to taxpayers; 600 million euros taken from families who need the car in their daily lives; 600 million euros weighing on public transport, which have increased in this period of about 4 %, far above the inflation verified; 600 million euros taken from businesses, who need to deliver their goods, receive their raw materials and transport their workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the price of oil is no longer low. Only in the last ten weeks, the price of fuel has risen every week. Today, compared to January 2016, before the increase in the ISP surcharge, gasoline costs 28 cents per litre and gas oil costs 34 cents more. For a Portuguese who tests the car with 60 liters of gas oil, the invoice is 20 € more expensive than before this increase in taxes. This undoubtedly contributes to the rise in the price of oil, but also to a much higher percentage, the rise in the tax burden on fuels, which is now one of the highest in the European Union. With the creation of the overtax of fuels, Portugal shifted from a position below the European Union average to a position clearly above that average, not having, of course, neither GDP, nor the purchasing power of the other countries of the European Union. This adds to the breakdown of the government's promise to revise the tax rate quarterly in order to lower the price paid by taxpayers. After the creation of this overtax on fuels, each litre of petrol 55 % is charged, in each litre of petrol 62 % of the price goes directly to the state's coffers. A family that supplies 90 € of gasoline, is paying 34 € of fuel and the remaining 56 € go directly to the boxes of the Ministry of Finance. A company that offers a gas van with 100 €, pays 45 € for the fuel and 55 € for the tax state. In fact, the only time "we're all Centeno" is when we're going to the gas pump! [[CDS-PP applause.]] There is no longer any justification for maintaining this supertax unless it is the tax voracity of the government and of the parties that support it. The so-called principle of fiscal neutrality was just a waste of about 600 million euros to taxpayers. A family that spends 60 liters of gasoline per week, at the end of one year paid almost 5000 € of fuel, of which 3100 € are taxes that go directly to Minister Centeno's pocket. This tax, also above, is blind, affects all equally, regardless of its economic, social or geographical condition. It was precisely for this reason that the CDS always reported this increase. That's exactly why the CDS has always been against this overtax. And if the Portuguese are paying more today, when they are going to supply a gas pump, this is due to a wrong option not only of the Government but also of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which have plunged our proposals to eliminate this increase. That is why I want to use this intervention to announce to the House that, as of June 21, the CDS is going to propose the elimination of this over-tax of fuels, giving relief to families and the economy, in an invoice that they so much weigh. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the fourth time the CDS takes an initiative like this to vote. of the other three times they plunged them, with the votes against the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens. this time, if the parties are consistent with everything they have said in this House, we know that our initiative will pass, we know that we will be able to lower the bill of gasoline and gas oil to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u38	Guaranteed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u39	This is the challenge we have left here today in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u40	Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS, wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u41	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, with regard to the said EUR 600 million, he used the word « carry ». Now, I would like to ask you this very direct question: how does the government’s ‘best increase in taxes’ qualify as part of what you have been part of? I would like you to tell me what the other adjective is to qualify as Victor Gaspar's brutal tax increase' in a government in which you took your seat. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But in addition to this question, for which I look forward to a reply, I would also like to draw your attention to a few questions. As has already been said today, this is a topic that opens newspapers, heads newspaper titles, and tends to approach sometimes is not the most serious. And as has already been said here today, what really matters is to understand what is in the genesis of the actual cost of fuels. This has already been widely explained, but they continue to systematically devalue what the market is and the increase in raw materials. More important than all this is to understand what income is available and what policies we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u43	Obviously in 2016 the Government of the Socialist Party opted, and very well, for the issue of fiscal neutrality, because it was impossible for the Portuguese to continue paying the taxes that you had created. So we had to solve the problem. Today, about what we have on the table and what we have in the Budget, I come to the proposal that you have set out and that you have already entered the Assembly of the Republic. But if you want to, in a serious way and taking into account the wording of that proposal, to defend that the Portuguese State will exempt from the fuel tax — which is what is written there — what is being done, basically, is to remove the door which allows the government to regulate that tax by re-setting nothing. That is why I ask you whether, frankly, the CDS advocates that the solution for Portuguese is that no taxes on fuels are paid. And if you defend it now, tell the Portuguese what taxes they want to raise. Of course, the responsibilities are known and I do not believe that the CDS defends the position of putting an end to fuel revenue and clearly assumes that it does not need to be compensated fiscally. Therefore, for your proposal to be viable, the challenge is to tell me what taxes will be placed on the consideration of the Portuguese. What's the increase in taxes you're defending? Is it the increase in labour income taxes or is it anything else? This is the question I wanted to leave you and is the answer the Portuguese would like to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u44	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u45	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I will explain to you, Mr, the difference between a sack and the « brutal increase in taxes ». It's a serious difference. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u46	It's more serious! It's cartilage! [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u47	It is that the 'bratic increase in taxes' was to pay the debts that you raised and that you left the country in bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] But there is another difference, as far as seriousness is concerned, Mr President. It is that "getting out" is to promise the Portuguese that there is a principle of neutrality — that is, the State, if it is receiving less, increases the tax and, if it is receiving more, decreases the tax — but then, when the State receives more, you forget to lower the tax. That is, when it is against the Portuguese, you are there, but when it is in favor of the Portuguese, you are no longer there. This has a name: « get out»! That's what you created! They should be faced with this every day. It is appropriate that all Portuguese, when they are going to supply their cars, their motorcycles, their vans, with gasoline or gasoline, remember that they are paying more because of your lie, because of the word you gave and who did not know how to honor. It's good for everyone out there to remember that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u48	You didn't answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u49	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this legislature, energy prices have evolved towards the Government taking measures to increase consumer protection, measures such as those mirrored in a number of areas such as electricity, in particular in the decline in the rate of access to the network, in the first century of the regulated tariff or in the reductions in the natural gas tariff of 20 %. Among the consumers we want to benefit, over these two and a half years, we have the most vulnerable. I recall, for example, that about 800 000 families are now benefiting from the social electricity tariff, with a 33 % reduction in the cost. For this, it was enough to make access to this automatic social tariff, measured against which the PSD and CDS always stood. During the previous Government, this measure was simply not applied, harming families. And even though it was a debate on fuel, it was a good time for the Social Democratic Party to apologize to the Portuguese and put their hands on the conscience of more than 800 000 families who did not have the right to the social electricity tariff because of the policy that you applied. With regard to today's debate on fuels and taxation in them, I recall that it was the PSD that applied the famous'huge tax increase', announced in 2012 indisputably by then Minister Vítor Gaspar. This increase in taxes was blind, viscerally attacking people's income, cutting wages and subsidies and placing the poorest Portuguese. It was the « go beyond the troika », which the former leader of the Social Democratic Party greatly appreciated. It was the "thong rope" for many family aggregates! With regard to the fuel market, the price of fuels is a cost that cannot be neglected either by families or by companies. They can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for consumer protection in this sector. We recognize the existence of legitimate doubts about the competition market and we believe that a global and independent audit would be a good measure, as already mentioned and approved in previous debates. Following a discussion of this House, a request for support was requested by the Government to the European Commission to ensure clearly compliance with competition rules. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group advocates transparency in the sector. in this measure, we presented, in February this year, a legislative initiative aimed at giving total information to the energy consumer, whether in electricity, natural gas or fuels. The adoption of this proposal, which is at the centre of discussion in the specialty, will contribute to a society where consumers have more information, allowing potential low prices. Taxes, taxes, tariff deficit vectors or mandatory incorporation of biofuels will be compulsory. More information? Don't! An important information, because we will certainly all learn to read and look better at fuel bills. along this legislation we presented other proposals, such as the change of the regulatory framework, allowing, when ultimately, the transfer to ERSE, with clear gains from economies of scale to the sector. With regard to costs, in particular for freight transport undertakings, the current government has introduced the scheme of professional gas oil, ensuring fiscal competitiveness at European level. This measure has a very positive balance sheet. The latest data indicate that around 1800 companies are now beneficiaries, and we are talking about reimbursements of more than EUR 36 million. Another issue that deserves the Government's greatest attention is that of possible irregularities in the entry of fuels into Portugal, harming competing companies and indirectly all consumers. With regard to the current rise in the price of fuels, a lot of misinformation has circulated, as we have seen in this debate by the PSD. It is important to note that the burden of fuel taxation is below the euro area average, contrary to what has been disclosed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u51	And, yes, today's climbs are based on an increase in Brent. Otherwise, let's see: the same was 30 US dollars, in January 2016, about 65 dollars, at the end of 2017, and now it's practically 80 dollars. Obviously, the ISP, being a percentage, varies according to the values. But do we want fiscal stability or not? Oh, my God! Climate change requires changes in the energy paradigm, particularly with the bet on renewable energy and electricity mobility, but this bet cannot be made at the cost of pressure on consumer costs. Now, we are following a path not only to bet on new energies but also to act on the market. The Socialist Party is next to consumers, seeking measures to mitigate the impacts of fuel prices on families, increasing their quality of life. It is for this purpose that we work and we will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u52	Mr Carlos Santos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the current PS government has made a large and unjustified increase in taxes on fuels, it has given its word to the Portuguese, committing itself to reducing the value of the ISP by 1 cent per 4 cent of the increase in the price of oil in international markets. Well, this word was not an honest word! [[Go, go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u54	on the contrary, we are in the ninth consecutive week of rising fuel prices—and it is already announced that it will not stop—and what does the government do? Turn your face around and make sure it's nothing with him.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u56	The Portuguese are on a kind of highway without speed limit. It's always open!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u58	You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It is that this government has found a new kind of tax, which is not included in the tax code but is a new kind of tax, which is the so-called tax fuel. If this increase in tax, in times, was the austere austerity, it is now the austere austerity. I explain: this government, in 2016, ludicrous the Portuguese, when it took advantage of the circumstances of fuel prices being low on international markets to accommodate in the fuel the tax revenue necessary to cope with the public expenditure of the State, claiming that it was reducing taxes and that people already felt it in the portfolio. Liar! They discreetly fattened the value of the ISP on the back of the Portuguese, leading to the extent that what we pay today, on average, by litre of fuel, in the gas pump, is almost 70% tax, that is, in every 100 € in the invoice only 30 € are raw material, the rest, the 70%, is for the state. It happens that now, when prices are resumed in the fuel markets, we have these prices highly additives and it is clear that the State can no longer survive without the use of this tax. Therefore, this is the result of your choices, of policies of intrusion and political opportunism, of one hand and withdrawing with the other. We're not gonna let them keep fooling the Portuguese! We have today not the world's highest fuels at its price, but the world's largest tax "canga" fuel! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u59	I ask you, Mr Hugo Costa, since in 2011 the price of the oil barrel was higher than $100 and the price of the fuel litre was significantly 1, 5 €, as it explains today that the cost of the barrel is in the order of 80 dollars and the price of the fuel per litre is at 1, 68 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u61	Mr Hugo Costa, next door in Spain, the liter of gasoline costs less 0, 23 € and a ball of gas costs less 8 €. I ask you what is rational of this because they buy exactly at the same price! [[Protests by PS Members and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] Mr Hugo Costa, what is your rational for maintaining this level of tax burden and for economic growth and the competitiveness of our economy? Oh, my God! This austerity is not just for those on the road, it's for all Portuguese. Even with regard to the Competition Authority ( AD ), I thought that the honourable Member also came to make such a reference, but I will tell you - the Competition Authority - and here your lack of seriousness is demonstrated - is prevented from carrying out investigations, is prevented from paying rents from your own headquarters building of 2017. It is that the arrests of Minister Mário Centeno have affected the Competition Authority and that is why they have not yet responded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u62	To reply, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u63	Mr President, first of all, to clarify Mr Carlos Silva, I must say that we do not have the greatest tax burden at European level. in gas oil, for example, the European average is at 56 % and in Portugal it is at 55 %. It's good to read the data and it's good to see the results! [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u64	Then it is obvious that the fuel market has a set of variables and, in particular, when compared with Spain, we have to compare data such as that of biofuels, which in Spain is 5 % and Portugal is 7 %, 5 %. But we also have to compare issues such as market share. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] We have already asked for an investigation by the Competition Authority on the structure of the market and the margins of the market on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u65	And they took money from the Competition Authority? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u66	It is that on the part of the PSD there is only the question of the tax margin, but we have to find out all the functioning of the market and all the margins of the market, not only the tax side. Therefore, the Socialist Party is available to debate the whole area of fuel, not only the tax but all the information on prices, particularly how it is built and the margins of the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u67	Mr Heitor Sousa now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has decided today to make a crusade against taxation on fuels and, in doing so, hides a reality that has to do with the circumstances of the fuel market being deeply concentrated — a market in which monopolies are dominated in subsectors and in other sectors dominate oligopolies — and therefore price formation is not as free as the honourable Members do. Ladies and gentlemen, we're painting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u69	Podera!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u70	Mr President, it is true that today taxation on fuels — all taxation on fuels! — it is broadly equivalent to 65 % of the selling price of the product. But it must be known that the formation of fuel prices is not based on the percentage determination but, in several plots, some of which are based on fixed quantities and approved annually in the Budget Law, others are effectively percentages that have to do with value added tax, which is a decided tax based on percentage tables. That's why, sirs. Members, wanting to change the value of the ISP based on a percentage reduction of this value is illegal and is not applicable, because the table of the ISP is constructed on the basis of values that for your information Mr Cristovão Norte, in 2016, corresponded to 0, 556 € per litre of fuel. This table lasts for the whole year and therefore it is not possible to alter it in the middle of the year...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u71	That was changed in February, by the gate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u72	...because there is a law of value reinforced behind this, which is the Law of Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u73	Doors are altered in the middle of the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u74	Therefore, Mr President, if necessary — and it is necessary! — correct the additional amount that the ISP had in 2016, by reference to the value of VAT, which is a percentage rate, it is possible to do so, but only in the next discussion of the State budget for 2019. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] We agree to recognize that this additional — which was approved in 2016, with the argument to maintain the level of VAT revenue stable — now that the reason for its creation has disappeared...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u75	Not now! It's been gone a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u76	... which had to do with the fact that the price of oil is low on international markets and this affects the value of VAT revenue, is reviewed and that this should be done, as the Socialist Party's Member has just mentioned, in the light of a global review of price formation in the fuel market.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u77	And the price goes on like this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u78	Mr President, we must remember a people's voice that we all recognize when we travel on roads, especially on highways, and when there are variations in Brent's price on the international market. We all know that when Brent's price in the international market rises, this is immediately reflected in the price of selling fuels, but when the international market has low Brent prices, the reduction in the selling price of fuels to the public is much lower than the one that presided over its rise. This means that the price formation market in fuels is not free, it is a market that is strongly conditioned by its oligopolist characteristics and by the control that multinationals exercise in the formation of the price of fuels. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Therefore, we are available to promote a price review mechanism for fuels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u79	Are we voting in favor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u80	... not only to ensure that fuel taxation is more transparent for people and businesses, but also to ensure that price formation from its origin is also transparent for the population and businesses. And so, Mr President, as regards this debate — which is more or less recurrent every time the price of oil rises, but which does not exist when the price of oil goes down — it would be good for the Assembly of the Republic to adopt as an essential task to ensure that, from here to the next Budget Law, if it could promote a review of the mechanisms for the formation of fuel prices,... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] ... instead of announcing large or large tax increases, which do not solve the problem. A little while ago, Mr Pedro Mota Soares guarantees there, from the rostrum, that he would defend the ISP's fall in the formation of fuel prices. I ask you, Mr Pedro Mota Soares: does this House guarantee that this price drop will not be absorbed by dealers and companies producing and distributing the fuel market? Or will it happen again, as happened when VAT fell in restaurants, where VAT actually fell from 23 % to 13 % and yet prices did not change? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u81	How hard it is to talk about fuel!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u82	Therefore, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to reinforce this issue by asking you whether the CDS and PSD have absolute security to be able to guarantee to the House that if you lower the ISP, that bass will translate into a reduction in the selling price to the public or if, on the contrary, we are going to see another form of companies increase their profit rates, their margins of brokerage and, at the end, the price does not have virtually any change. [[All right!]] [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u83	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and CDS, when we talk about transparency in price formation and the value chain, we mean that people need to know the difference between the cost of extraction of an oil barrel and the cost at which it reaches international markets. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr Cristovão Norte, I can tell you that the profit rate, i.e. the financial margin that exists between the value of oil extraction and the value to which the oil barrel reaches the international market is above 300 %! I repeat, it is above 300 %! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u84	Therefore, Mr President, this circumstance means that much of the formation of oil prices on the international market is influenced by monopolistic prices that are provided to the Brent market, and therefore the evolution of the price in the fuel market at international level is strongly conditional. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u85	Are you ashamed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u86	... available to review, in this Legislative Session and in the next, the formation of the price in the fuel market and act accordingly, avoiding the charge book against fuel taxation and acting on all components of the value chain, in order to make prices more transparent and, above all, lower. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u87	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate exposes once again the continuing contradiction of the Left Block. Otherwise, let's see: then, the Bloc approved with the government this solution to increase the tax on petroleum products — in 2016, in 2017 in 2018 — and still yesterday Mrs Catarina Martins said that at the time of this government fulfilling the promise and lowering the ISP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u90	Mr President, on the basis of your statement, can we conclude that you will approve the draft resolution of the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u91	Exactly! Tell me how you're going to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, what we all understand, and also the Portuguese, is that the Left Block says one thing but then, by silence, it does another.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u93	It's in Blocko!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u94	It is the well-known political opportunism of a party that has always two sides. The Left Block is like the god Jano, the famous god of Greek-Roman mythology who has one face to look forward and another face to look back. When it is appropriate for him to pretend to be opposition, when it is not appropriate for him to remain silent, but he continues to send it to this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all Portuguese know that the Left Block has approved this increase in taxes. With this ninth increase in the price of fuels fell, once again, one of the many masks of the Left Block. The Bloc may well continue to say what it wants, because we all know that it is a complicity of the government in this sack of families and businessmen. Thanks to the Left Block, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese pay the world's most expensive fuels. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what has the Left Block, especially Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to say about what you have called a small fuel increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u96	Does the Left Block maintain the position that it is preferable to apply taxes on fuels to affect Portuguese income? As if it weren't the same thing... it's always the same contradiction! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u97	What is the position of the Left Block on this matter? Did the Left Block change its mind or not? And do not come to say, as they have already said, that the fault of the increase in fuel is from the others — it is from the markets, it is from Trump, it is from the previous government, it is from the privatizations, it is from the bank, it is from third parties. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one goes to that conversation anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u99	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the blame for the increase in fuel is for this government, but it is also for the Left Block. Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u101	Socialism, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is making fuel inaccessible to most Portuguese people. The PSD has always been against this path and against this stubborn way of doing austerity. The way of the government and the left front, where the Left Block is also included, is a wrong path and is an unfair path. It is a wrong path and it is an unfair path, because it penalizes all equally, without looking at the yield and the possibilities of each one. at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they all pay the same: they pay the rich, they pay the poor, they pay those who earn much, but they also pay those who earn little. And the problem is that the real impact is on those who earn little, not on those who gain a lot. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, history has taught us that contradictions have led to the failure of socialism and tells us the people that truth always comes to the top. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the Left Block to assume its responsibilities and to say whether it is in favour or against this increase in fuel taxes. Yes or no? That's the point. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u102	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u103	Mr President, Mrs Sara Madruga, I advise you to consult the National Fuel Market Market (ENMC) website to understand how fuel prices are shaped and how ISP rates are determined, the carbon rate, the contribution of road service. All this is part of the taxation on fuels and it is a fixed value, Mrs Deputy — fixed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u104	Do you agree or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u105	What varies over the year is the revenue of VAT which affects fuels, that is that it varies, because it is a percentage. The rest is fixed, it has to do with a value that is approved annually in the Budget Law. Do you understand? Oh, my God! Hello! [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u106	So, ladies and gentlemen, I now explain to you that the so-called "additional of the ISP" has been calculated to be preferably neutral from the point of view of VAT revenue — VAT revenue! — which is a percentage revenue. And, therefore, this additional is also a percentage value that joins the other values, which are fixed, in the end the tax revenue does not vary in relation to what was budgeted and planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u107	You haven't answered my question yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u108	in fact, much of this increase in taxes that we are suffering today and of which you are speaking has to do with the increase in taxes and taxes, but with the increase in Brent's price on the international market. That, yes, is increasing, and it is about this value of the price on the international market that, as a whole, affects VAT and also the increase in taxation. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it is necessary to understand the various components in the formation of the price of fuels. And, therefore, the Block is available to, once and for all, do a serious and in-depth work on why it is the increase in the price of fuels, to understand why, when the price of Brent increases, the price of fuels increases immediately, « in rockets», and, when the price of Brent is low, the price of fuels in Portugal increases as if it were a pen, more or less. This type of inequality in the behaviour of the fuel market in Portugal shows that we are not talking about a free market, a transparent market, a competitive market, but a market in which price formation is strongly conditioned by large oligopolist and monopoly companies. So, Mrs. Member, we, Block Left, in this legislature...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u109	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u110	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I said in this Parliament, we have adopted and managed to ensure that the political majority approved a systematic reduction in the extraordinary overtax on IRS tax (tax on income of natural persons), which has just been eliminated, and we have increased the number of steps of the IRS, thus lowering the tax burden on families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u111	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u112	from this point of view, the Left Block, together with this political majority, has proved to completely eliminate the effect on families of the formidable increase in taxes that the PSD and the CDS decided in the first Budget that they had the opportunity to have approved in this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u113	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current situation of the price of fuels — gas, petrol, LPG ( liquefied oil gas), natural gas — in Portugal is inseparable from the policy that kept at high levels the country's dependence and energy deficit, which privatized strategic companies such as Galp, EDP (Energy of Portugal) or REN ( National Energy Networks ), which liberalized prices, which subjected energy and transport policies to the interests of monopolies, which increased the tax burden on energy products of different types, a responsibility shared by successive governments of the PSD, PSD and CDS and PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u115	PS with PCP support!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u116	...and that has harmed the country and the national economy. The PCP denounces the deep demagogy with which the PSD and CDS have been addressing this matter, aiming at the whitening of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u118	It was with the PSD/CDS Government of Durão Barroso and Paulo Portas that fuel prices were liberalized, thus increasing the profits of oil companies, notably from Galp. It was with the PSD Government / CDS of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas that all energy products had the maximum VAT rate, 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u120	It was the PSD and the CDS that, over the years, voted successively alongside the PS, rejecting the many proposals that the CFP has been presenting and aimed at reducing the prices of fuels and electricity and at harmonising them with the prices of other European countries. The continued fight by the CFP against the increase in the price of fuels, as well as the remaining energy products, has not begun today and has not run out in the size of the tax burden. If the existing tax burden is inseparable from the right-wing policy which, over the years, has increased taxes on consumption and on labour income, while reducing them over large capital, deepening injustices and inequalities in Portuguese society, it is no less true that these taxes cannot make the scandalous profits, whether from oil companies or from the electro-producer system companies, which neither the PS nor the PSD nor the CDS question, scandalous profits which confirm that so-called "regulatory entities" have only contributed to the whitening of a policy at the service of monopolies. In view of the increase in the price of oil in international markets, the CFP considers it necessary and possible to reduce the tax burden on energy products. In addition to the necessary adjustment in relation to the ISP which was promised, and not implemented, by the PS Government and the reduction of the mandatory incorporation of biofuels to 5, 5 %, which the CFP presented in the State budget and which was rejected because it did not have a favourable vote on either the PS or the PSD or the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u122	... it is urgent to move forward with the reduction of VAT on electricity, natural gas and stock gas. For the CFP, it is necessary and possible to reduce the scandalous profits of businesses in the sector for the benefit of consumers, populations, the national economy, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to adjust prices in a raw material that is strategic for the national economy. It is necessary for the PS Government to implement the measures framed and presented in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 240 / 2016, which was adopted in this Parliament on a proposal from the Portuguese Communist Party, in particular the establishment of a maximum price mechanism with reference to the average prices before euro area taxes, the development of alternative fuel networks — natural gas, LPG — and the assessment of competition violations in the fuel market because the process which was initiated in relation to the audit of fuel pricing standards is precisely the result of the proposal of the PCP which was approved and which gave rise to this Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which is not yet implemented here. For the CFP, it is necessary and possible to deepen a policy of support for the productive sectors of agriculture, fisheries, passenger transport and goods, in which it has committed itself, as demonstrated by the progress achieved on a proposal from the CFP, in the last State budgets, in respect of support for agricultural gas oil and gas oil. We have developed a set of proposals in a systematic, rigorous and, above all, soundly based manner, with the concrete aim of acting with political measures to respond to the problems that are felt by the populations, small businesses, by the productive sectors, in the face of the disastrous policy that has been imposed over these years, a right-wing policy that has systematically benefited the interests of the most powerful economic groups in the oil sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u124	We cannot continue with this policy, we cannot continue to leave the extraordinarily high profits of industry and multinationals. We must give an effective response to defend the interests of the Portuguese population and the national economy before this economic power of the multinationals. For the CFP, it is necessary and possible to pave the way for a policy that aims to reduce energy dependence and ensure the sovereignty of the country also in this dimension, an objective that calls for a national strategy, aiming at the recovery of public control of this strategic sector. It is in this sense that the CFP will continue to intervene. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u125	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, Member of the PSD, had signed up, I believe, to request clarification. The previous speaker does not have time, so I ask whether he wants to embark on an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u126	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u127	You then have the floor to that end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u128	Mr President, on the expectation that the CFP had something to say about what the PSD would be asking, I would like to say that the fundamental point of this debate that the PSD today promotes is to challenge all parties, particularly the CFP, to the urgency of reducing the tax on petroleum products. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u129	That is the question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Price formation is another debate we may have, but what is at stake here is taxes, it is taxation — Mr Heitor Sousa, we are talking about taxation. It is necessary to say that this reduction in the tax on petroleum products is a proposal for support for Portuguese, it is a response to a little serious action, at least by the Government, which, under the cap of maintaining the value of VAT and promising a hypothetical fiscal neutrality, has been successively increasing taxes. The government took advantage to increase this tax even before presenting the first State budget and continued with the increases, the last of which from 1 January,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u131	... when, with more than one increase in the ISP, the values raised greatly, reaching, with this maneuver, a place on the podium of countries with more expensive fuels. Just do a little exercise in relation to the best-selling gasoline, the 95 octane gasoline. A short time ago, Mrs Deputy said that the Portuguese had always gone to Spain to buy fuel. That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u132	Who are you talking to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u133	They had been disappointed to go to Spain to buy fuel, but now they have returned to this habit, because what we found in relation to gasoline 95 is that there are 26 cents more expensive in Portugal than in Estanha and therefore this differential has expanded exponentially. That is why it is worth people going to Spain again and we are talking about taxation rather than price formation. As a result of this option, the Portuguese are paying taxes and with this PS government, the PCP and the Left Block we are already going with more than 1000 million taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u135	You know what happened before? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u136	And it's not 1000 million, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. They're more! I heard the ladies here. Members will glorify the 'great increase in taxes'. Ironically, they speak of the « huge increase in taxes», but you, on top of that « huge increase in taxes », can still put more taxes, can still put the burden on you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u137	So, what kind of a tax increase that even ours seems to be a slight increase in taxes. Compared to what you are doing, ours is already a slight increase in taxes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u138	The new PS government, the PCP and the Left Block took advantage of the time when it could be sailed at the Brent price, took advantage of the time when Brent was at the balance price and decided to increase exponentially and now take advantage. I don't think this government party stance is serious...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u140	... and that, in fact, denounces this huge increase in taxes. It is therefore urgent for the Portuguese to reverse this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u141	You now have the floor, also for an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the price of fuels is a matter that does not depend on the intervention of the Government... [[PSD laughter.]] ... because it is the regulated market. It is up to the regulator to monitor how fluctuations in the price of gasoline and gasoline occur. « (...) it is very relevant that the country in general can become efficient in using energy and find alternatives to fossil fuels ». Whoever said this is, by the way, and by the reaction of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, someone with a bad memory that you are trying to hide under the carpet. Who said this was Pedro Passos Coelho, in October 2013, questioned about this issue, at the time when Brent's barrel cost approximately the same value it has today. Strangely enough, the reaction of the PSD and CDS was total silence. [[Shame!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u143	They didn't say and they didn't want to know what was going on. Worse today, the PSD and the CDS forget this leader and forget that those prices that existed at the time were higher than they are today. Brent's barrel was equivalent, but prices were higher than today's.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u144	Truth! Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u145	There was no concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u146	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u147	Moreover: the concern about the weight in the family budget of the Portuguese did not exist either, because at the time everything had been taken away from the families. To keep in mind what they did during your governance, I remember that they took away the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance, launched an overtax, cut wages, cut pensions, increased VAT, launched tolls, cut public transport careers, dismantled the National Health Service, and could continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u148	And before that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u149	at that time, the sensitivity was zero! The current government and the PS are indeed sensitive to the escalation of the price of the oil barrel and have expressed it in all political forums where they have intervention and in multiple frameworks. Although the international environment is not favourable for this rise to be controlled in a political way, we would like it to be so. But we also bear in mind that the replacement of family incomes, the increase in wages, the increase in pensions, the end of the surcharge, makes this burden quite different, either in the family budget or in the business budget. For this reason, just to remember, at the time the minimum wage was 485 €, today the minimum wage is 580 € ; at the time, the average wage was 909 €, today is 955 €. This is only to keep in mind the purchasing power that we are talking about and the impact on comparing things that are indeed comparable but with a very different income available from families. That is also why we have spread over the country, with the concern of relieving the family budget, the simple fuel and therefore more economical and which today already represents 65% of the market. But the government also created professional gas oil, which in fact allows for a convergence in terms of the competitiveness of national companies with the European Union, which already represents a reduction in the tax burden by 38, 7 % to about 30 %. however, we can never stop saying and repeating what the government has committed itself to and promises to do. It has committed itself to reviewing taxation, but with a view to implementing and keeping in mind environmental impacts. Therefore, it is not going backwards with past views that solve the problem, as proposed by the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u151	We must confirm and continue to strengthen investment in rail, public transport, social passes, electrical alternatives and shared mobility. We must continue to think about people, families, businesses and the environment, because we must never cease to converge on what makes us better and in order to have a real response to the challenges of reducing carbon emissions. Therefore, the great challenge today in this debate is to see whether the PSD and the CDS are at once under the cover of their previous government leader and, in fact, are able to evolve, look to the future and think of solutions that, in fact, meet the challenges of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u152	It is appropriate that someone should take the initiative to register, because there is currently no Member who is enrolled for the continuation of the debate. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u153	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Jamila Madeira spoke essentially about economic matters which are the essence of this debate, let us say, or at least should be. This is unless the previous PSD Member, Cristóvão Crespo, justified the existence of this debate with a question of fiscal policy. For if we have to see and act on fiscal policy, it is good to answer the questions that have been put here and, if there is a recipe that is now guaranteed through the collection of a particular tax, if that tax is missing, the one who attacks it has to justify what is the alternative that suggests. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u155	And the attacker didn't suggest any alternatives. Today, we have exchanged roles: Mrs. Jamila Madeira spoke of economics and I am talking about fiscal policy because of the irony of fate, because the debate should be even about the economy. On the economy that is growing, flourishing, creating jobs, creating wealth and that of the Members. Right-wingers want to destroy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That's your goal. Your objective is to destroy the economy and to that end they justify attacking a tax and also the budgetary balance, which we have as our objective. [[PSD protests.]] Your goal is to destroy the governance of the PS, destroy the governance supported by the parties that support it, whatever the cost, or that it is necessary to destroy the national economy, destroy public finances, destroy Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u156	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moreira Testa, the essential point of this debate is whether the word given is even an honest word. The essential point of this debate is whether we have a government that meets the word or whether we have a government that meets only the most basic desire for plunder that appears to be in the Government of the Socialist Party. This tax had the promise that there would always be a measure called « fiscal neutrality », and that is what is at stake. What the country is asking for, what the benches are saying more or less clearly is that we are in fact facing a loot and an unfulfilled promise. I would even say that this tax, which both Mr Deputy mentioned, is a weapon of massive destruction of the economy, because this tax has something that cannot deny: anyone who puts 10 € of gasoline in the car pays 62 % of tax and anyone who puts 100 € in the truck pays 55 % of tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u158	And four years ago what was it like? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u159	So that's the reality: 62 % or 55 % tax. A family that attests 60 l of gasoline per week, at the end of the year pays 5000 €, representing 3100 € tax, repeat, 3100 € tax! Mr President, in fact we have less and worse health, but we have more ISPs; we have less and worse public transport, but we have more ISPs; we have less savings for families and businesses on account of an unfair tax, a tax that is a genuine loot and which is not explained either by price formation or for other reasons. The only way you have to solve this is by answering a very simple question: are you or are you not available to fulfill the promise of fiscal neutrality and, if not, to reduce the ISP? Yes or no? Everything else is propaganda, it's politics, and the Portuguese can see the difference between those who meet and those who cheat. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u160	If the rest is political, what is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u161	To reply, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u162	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, I understand your efforts to justify your own question. It was so much effort that it came to the point of saying that the economy would be worse than it was in its time or in the time of the government that you supported,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u163	All right! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u164	... because at that time there were already the discrepancies in the fuel market with which we deal today and which we have to attack. That is why we have also given a positive response to the resolution presented here by the CFP, which we share and which we support. Therefore, these adjustments are subject to attack by the Socialist Party and we are available to act accordingly. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Mr Hélder Amaral, for us fiscal neutrality is in a global way, acting on all the tax burden and within the framework of fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u165	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u166	We have always said that we would be available to assess the feasibility of developments in government budget taxes. It is in this framework that we are available to assess the justification for amending taxes. We will always continue to appreciate this matter, but not in a case-by-case manner, almost populist, attacking the needs of people, while being political here in the plenary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u167	To close the debate, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the subject of this debate has been known, we have seen a return to the past. in recent days, the government and its supporters have tried to confuse and mislead people about the responsibility of the current cost of fuels. Propaganda has returned in force, both on social networks and in comments. You didn't surprise us. This is how the Socialist Party acted throughout the period of José Socrates, propaganda and more propaganda, illusion behind illusion, even beating forward with reality and, in May 2011, after leading the country to precipice, sign the memorandum with international creditors. You didn't surprise us, because they're the same. Present rulers, current leaders were already at that time. Everyone drank from the Socrates cartridge and, by the way, they learned nothing, being unable to change and, when the thing goes wrong, it is always the fault of others, never taking on their responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]] This is a government whose propaganda announces an innovative code of conduct, but then, in practice, whenever a ruler does not comply with it — and they have been several — does not apply or serves for anything. All of this is not new, all of this originates in socratic school of bad memory. What is strange in this debate is the hypocrisy of the other parties supporting the government. The efforts they have made throughout this afternoon to escape the essential issue and that is on the table, because in the speech they are against fuel increases, they regret the price, but they vote favourably for the diplomas that validate the price of the same fuels. A few days are against the government, others in favour, but at the end of the day they always make the proposals of this government viable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is that the cost of fuels has increased by political decision of this government. There is a tax boost made in 2016. The government charged this tax in 2016 and today petrol and gas in Portugal are of the most expensive in Europe, and we do not stop climbing in this spoiled ranking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u170	Two-thirds of the increase in the price of petrol and three-quarters of the increase in the price of gas are taxed in the choices of this government. [[PSD applause.]] In 2015, gas oil in Portugal was 1 % cheaper than the European average and now is 8, 7% more expensive. Gas was 8, 7 % more expensive than the European average and is now almost 14 % more expensive. And don't come and tell us about the price of oil, which is the same for everyone. Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way to the Spanish supply stations because the price difference is already in the tens of cents. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is how austerity led, made through new taxes and taxis, indirectly, is going to make its way. Since the Government decided to create this fuel tax boost, it has already taken over the Portuguese portfolios of more than EUR 1000 million, which contribute, and much, to the consolidation of the greatest tax burden of all time. And they say it's the dynamic of the economy? in this particular, these more than 1000 million go right of our pockets to the state. in a recent past, we would have the PCP and the Left Block shouting that we were in front of a robbery; now they pretend they scream, but they authorize.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u171	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u172	I will finish, Mr. President. I also recall that when this tax increase was created, the Government undertook to revise the tax quarterly to monitor the evolution of oil prices and to be fiscally neutral. Do you remember that commitment? Propaganda, mere propaganda, nothing more. It was another commitment that has joined so many others, as this government has been getting used to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u173	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u174	That is the word given, an honest word that does not exist. The truth is that the provisional has become definitive and everything else is conversation. And the Portuguese feel it, they know it every time they supply their vehicle. And so they have been emptying the pockets of the Portuguese in favor of the state vaults, with the convivence and with the support of the Mrs. Members of the PCP, the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Greens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u175	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I recall that up to 15 minutes after the end of this session the election of an effective member and an alternate member to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic will continue to take place. I now ask Secretary Emília Santos to give us an account of the file. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution Nos 1647 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the Maia Castle Basic School ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( PSD ). The drafts of lein. 885 / XIII ( 3 ) were also submitted to the Bureau. ( a ) — Prevents the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing diclofenac ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 886 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revokes dismissal due to inadaptation and amends the regime of collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction, strengthening the rights of workers ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 887 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Non-emergency transport of patients ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 888 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replaces the French ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u177	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 195 presences, to which six are added, signalled to the Bureau : those of the Deputies of PS Elza Pais, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves and of the Deputies of PSD António Leitão Amaro, Miguel Morgado and Sara Madruga da Costa, which makes 201 Members present, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Let's start with vote No 549 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of António Arnaut, presented by the President of the RA, who reads: « It is with a deep feeling that we note the death of the former Member of the Constituent Assembly and Member of the Assembly of the António Arnaut Republic. Born in Penela on January 28, 1936, António Arnaut graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra in 1959. He was always a jurist committed to dignifying his profession, having held various positions in the Order of Advocates. He has always been a citizen committed to the cause of freedom. in an interview published in 2015, António Arnaut quoted his friend Miguel Torga :‘ Freedom is a painful conquest of loneliness. But I'm free. I can say what I understand. ’ Thanks to its civic and political courage, we are all freer today. António Arnaut actively fought against the dictatorship, having participated in the lists of the democratic opposition and the founding of the Socialist Party, of which he was currently its Honorary President. After 25 April, he was on the front line of the Constituent Assembly and, as Minister of Social Affairs, in 1979, was forever associated with the creation of the National Health Service, a major achievement of democratic Portugal. The country, recognized, treats it affectionately as the Father of the National Health Service. António Arnaut has always understood equal opportunities as an essential condition for the exercise of freedom. The social and democratic state we are today had in it a visionary promoter and a demanding defender. Between 2002 and 2005, he was Grand Master of the Great Lusitian East. In 2016, he was thanked by the President of the Republic with the Great Cross of the Order of Freedom. He has until the last day been an active activist in the cause of social rights, engaging in numerous civic and political initiatives. by his example, he was able to grow respect for society and to personify in an exemplary way the concept of republican ethics. Meeting in plenary session, the members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at their disappearance to the family and friends of Antonio Arnaut, as well as to the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ” We shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 550 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — In spite of the death of Julius Pomar, presented by the President of the RA. I ask Secretary Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of Master Julius Pomar. Júlio Pomar, born in Lisbon on January 10, 1926, was one of the most talented plastic artists in contemporary Portugal, characterized by a multi-thematic and multifaceted work, which extravagant the domains of painting and drawing, extending to ceramics, engravings and writing. in the 1940s, Júlio Pomar was closely linked to the affirmation of the neorealist movement in Portugal, that it was its largest exponent. He then followed other influences and other ways, remaining as a deeply cosmopolitan artist, always committed to his time and to his country, able to dialogue simultaneously with the great artistic currents of the world and with the general public. Anti-fascist resistance, his civic intervention was worth his imprisonment for four months, having been a cell companion of Mário Soares, with whom he shared a contagious taste for life. Later, Mário Soares, as President of the Republic, would be portrayed by the always irreverent and provocative look of Julius Pomar. The work of Júlio Pomar, patented in large public and private collections in Portugal and abroad, will be perpetuated forever in the Foundation which, in 2004, established with its name, as well as in Atelier-Museu Júlio Pomar. seeing one of the biggest names of Portuguese culture, the country is clearly poorer. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Julius Pomar for their disappearance."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 547 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Of praise for the sporting results achieved in the cup of the canoeing world presented by BE and the PCP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on vote No 551 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From praise to Fernando Pimenta and to the Portuguese canoeing team presented by the CDS-PP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, vote 548 / XIII ( 3 ) is followed. ( a ) — Praised by the appointment of D. António Marto for the College of Cardinals, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the last day of May 20, His Holiness Pope Francis appointed Cardinal the Bishop of Leiria-Fátima, D. Antonio Marto, with his creation to be held at the Consistory on June 29th, along with 13 other cardinals. D. António Augusto dos Santos Marto, born in Tronco, Chaves County, in 1947, was ordained in 1971, as Presbyterian of the Diocese of Vila Real and studied at the Pontifical Gregorian University of Rome. He was a professor at the Portuguese Catholic University ( Porto ) and responsible at the Major Seminary of Porto as a trainer and mayor of studies. On November 10, 2000, he was appointed Bishop by the Holy Father John Paul II, having chosen « Servants of your joy», for his episcopal motto. He was auxiliary bishop of Braga from 2001 to 2004 and Bishop of Viseu from then until 22 April 2006, when he was appointed Bishop of Leiria-Fátima, by decision of Benedict XVI. With the appointment of D. António Marto as Cardinal, Portugal, for the first time in the history of the Catholic Church, has four cardinals in the College of Cardinals, where they already have seat D. José Saraiva Martins, D. Manuel Monteiro de Castro and D. Manuel Clemente. The recognition of this appointment attests to the value of D. António Marto, its simplicity, spirit of service and sensitivity, and, as he himself pointed out, ‘ accentuate the connection between the See of Peter and the Diocese of Leiria-Fatima. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and congratulates Mr. D. António Marto, recognizing the larger dimension of his appointment as a Cardinal, a distinction for the Church in Portugal and the Country».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP and abstains from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira, Maria Antónia Almeida Santos and Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u183	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u184	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u187	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u188	Mr President, it is also to say that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u189	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u190	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u191	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u192	Mr President, it is also to say that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u193	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1251 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of EN124 located in the councils of Silves and Portimão ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we just voted on is low to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1544 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify EN124 between Silves and Porto de Lagos ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1368 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defence of a fully retrained West Railway and with a quality transport service ( BE ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the Members. Deputies of PS António Sales, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques and Rui Riso and the abstention of PS.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u196	Mr President, it is to announce that on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group we will present a declaration of vote on draft resolutions Nos 1251 and 1544 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1557 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by defending the West Line, ensuring a public quality transport service for populations ( The Greens ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the Members. PSAntónio Sales, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Rui Riso and PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u199	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u200	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in general on the proposal for a regulation No 104/ XIII ( 3 ) in the general and general fields of expertise and finality. ( a ) — transposes the amendments introduced by Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 1794 to Directive 2001 / 23 / EC and Directive 2009 / 38 / EC as regards seafarers. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on parliamentary assessments Nos 54 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE) and 55 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 of 26 February defining the legal regime of post-graduate medical training, designated as medical boarding, and laying down the general principles to which the respective procedure must comply. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u203	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u204	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to this last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u205	All right, Mrs. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, Secretary Emília Santos will read the file entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u206	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 66/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April regulating the Film Law as regards measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities ( PSD ) and draft resolutions No 1650 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat the unexplained increase in expenditure on disease allowance ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas ( Caia ) rail link in the context of the transport of goods ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1652 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures for the full use of the investment in the construction of the Sines-Elvas ( Caia ) rail link in the context of passenger transport ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of the tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-24.u207	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, for another 15 minutes, there are votes in room D. Maria. The next plenary meeting will be held on Tuesday, May 29, for 15 hours, and will have as a working order the joint appreciation of the projects of lein. 418 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regulates access to assisted drug death ( NAP ), 773 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines and regulates the conditions under which anticipation for death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable ( BE), 832 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proceeds to 47. the amendment to the Penal Code and regulates the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia ( PS ) and 838 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable ( The Greens ). At the end of the debate there will also be a roll-call vote on these initiatives. A good weekend for all and the Socialist Party wish for a good convention. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 7 minutes.]]
