ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Our agenda today has as a unique point, by marking the PCP, the general discussion of bill No. 809 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Expand the sources of social security financing ( CFP ) and eventually proceed to the vote at the end of the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, social security is present in the lives of all and in all phases of life: it is present in childhood and youth, in adult life and in old age. It accompanies people from birth to death, is present in good times and bad moments: at birth, in situations of motherhood and paternity, in situations of reform, after a whole life of work and contributions, but also in situations of unemployment, poverty, illness, disability and disability. It is thus clear the essential role of social security in the lives of all and of each. The public system, universal and solidarity of social security, the conquest of April, is an irreplaceable instrument for promoting social justice and the distribution of national income, is a system that has demonstrated a great capacity for resistance and that is not, at all, overcome, much on the contrary, a system capable of ensuring the rights of social protection to all Portuguese and of contributing to a better distribution of wealth, this capacity that many want to weaken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u4	At different times, social security suffered attacks by various governments and with deep seriousness by the hands of PSD and CDS, which used the impact of the crisis, the willingness to reduce the deficit and demographic factors as a justification for cutting rights, income and social protection, in an alleged need to ensure the sustainability of social security, but what they wanted, was to weaken social security in order to be able to deliver it to private interests. What was truly unsustainable for social security, for workers and for the Portuguese people were cuts in wages, in reforms, in social benefits, was the generalization of precariousness, the worsening of exploitation, the reduction of social rights and the increase in impoverishment, making the country more unequal and unfair. It was not the social benefits that became irrelevant to the public social security system; it was the financial impact on the social security scheme resulting from the closure of enterprises, the increase in unemployment, forced emigration, particularly young people, the proliferation of precariousness and low wages, which adds the high volume of debt to the contribution scheme and the use of its income for purposes other than its purpose. This attack, which aimed to transform social security into a residual public care system, which is minimalist and based on selectivity in the allocation of social benefits, was interrupted by the removal of the PSD and the Government's CDS, and which, as far as it depends on the CFP, will never be realized, because the commitment we have and we assume is that of defending the universal public system and solidarity of social security. We therefore have this debate and therefore bring this proposal. The positive steps that have been taken with the intervention and insistence of the CFP and the path to the replacement of rights and income, which has to be deepened, have shown that this is also the right direction for social security, whose contributions have increased. More employment and better wages mean more and better social security. The commitment we have to this path, with the need to strengthen social protection, is accompanied by concrete proposals that give social security instruments for its realization. The discussion of the sustainability of social security is relevant and necessary. We do not deny the impact of demographic factors on social security, but these cannot be instrumentalized or absolutized and, at least, serve to reduce social security rights. The challenges that arise are, above all, economic and wealth distribution between capital and labour. It is therefore necessary to place the wealth produced to contribute to the financing of the contribution scheme and to the sustainability of social security. The proposal we are presenting aims at diversifying the sources of financing of the social security scheme, allowing for additional revenue to be obtained from those already obtained with the contributions of wages, and contributions to this scheme should not only affect wages, but also consider the value generated in economic activity. The contribution we propose affects the net added value ( VAL ) of companies, where public administration and non-profit entities are excluded, insofar as they do not generate profits. Its realisation is simple: if the sum of the employer's contributions paid by the company to social security on the basis of wages is greater than the value obtained by applying the tax on VAL, the company must no longer pay social security; if that sum is lower, then the company pays social security the missing difference. It is not a replacement of contributions on wages, but a complementary contribution which, based on wealth created, also introduces criteria of justice for companies. Today, an intensive enterprise with less accumulated profits will contribute more to social security than a capital and intensive knowledge firm, which, with much less workers, accumulates much more profits and contributes much less to social security. The existing technological development must be at the service of improving the working and living conditions of workers, and this solution we present is also a way of doing it. This proposal to expand sources of social security financing confirms that there are solutions to preserve their public, universal and solidarity. Since the expansion of sources of social security financing is one of the tools that can and should be considered to strengthen social security, it does not exclude or diminish the profound need and importance of structural measures by which the CFP has been beaten. The defence of social security and its sustainability is inseparable from the fight against unemployment and the promotion of employment with rights, the end of precariousness, the exploitation of wages and the increase of the national minimum wage, the fight against fraud, the avoidance of contribution and the misuse of social security money, matters which the CFP will not abandon. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social security cannot be subject to economic and financial interests, it cannot be held up by private interests nor can it be transformed into a business, so it is public and must therefore continue to be public. Social security is for everyone, regardless of their economic and social conditions, accompanying Portuguese throughout their lives, so it is universal and must therefore continue to be universal. Social security provides that the contributions of each individual are made according to their incomes, so those who have the most contribute more so that those who have the least and the least may not be excluded from fundamental rights, so it is solidarity and must continue to be solidarity, because social rights are for everyone and not for those who can pay. The public, universal and solidarity of social security is met with strengthened, robust and defended social security of the appetites of private people. Social security is the workers and the Portuguese people and must be at the service of their interests, of the development of the country, of progress and of social justice. This is one of the CFP's contributions to this path and to enable social security to be increasingly strong and capable of fulfilling its functions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u5	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau records requests for clarification from Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, PSD, and Mr José Rui Cruz, PS. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u6	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u7	All right. So, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u8	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the CFP, through the bill we are discussing today, intends to create, in addition to the contribution that companies already pay for each worker they have, a supplementary contribution of 10, 5 % on all profits they have. The CFP wants companies to contribute more to social security, but it does not define in particular whether it is intended only for intensive capital undertakings, if it is for intensive labour enterprises. For the PCP, in this group everything falls, as long as they have profit they have to pay more 10, 5 %! It happens that the PCP, when presenting this bill, certainly met with many entities, with unions, with employers, certainly bearing in mind that this is a project that has to do with the sustainability of social security, as soon as the competitiveness of companies, with job creation. If jobs are created, jobs are created, and all of this has to do with the future of combating poverty, because poverty is effectively combated by employment. My very objective question is this: has this matter already been discussed in the context of social consultation?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u10	Did you guys talk to the entrepreneurs? What did they tell you? Do you agree?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u12	Are you against it? What does this involve? How much? What studies do you have on the impact of this measure? How much do you want to come to social security? On 2016 values, which are known, what is the impact this measure has and what is the return to social security? Mrs Deputies, the CFP supports the Government and has validated its Programme, which says that this must be discussed in social consultation at the outset. Why didn't you talk to your government partners and allies? Are there any questions? Do you want to put more pressure on me? So this is your question, it's not a question of society. What the Portuguese and workers want is to have, indeed, sustainable social security, they want to evaluate what has been done. The government has committed itself to doing all this, but so far nothing! No one knows any studies, no projects! Nobody knows anything at all! And what did the PCP do? What studies do you have to submit? More, Mrs Deputies : says the CFP that this proposal affects profits and makes its demarcation clear about profit. For us, this diploma, presented in this way and with this lightness, is no more than a left-wing complex about the vile capital of business profit. It's ideology, nothing else! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u13	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u14	Mr President, I am grateful for the comments that, more than any question, Mrs Mercès Borges has made. And I begin by saying that, slightly, he cut the PSD pay, pensions and social benefits. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u15	To save the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u16	Slowly, it promoted the PSD unemployment and precariousness when it was in government! This was the slightness of the PSD, ignoring and running workers' rights, social rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u17	To save the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u18	And, Mrs Deputy, if companies create jobs, the truth is that those who create the wealth of companies are the workers who work there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u19	They're all! All together!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u20	Those who create the wealth of companies are the workers! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u21	They're all! All together!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u22	Therefore, it is of the utmost justice that the wealth created by workers is also put at the service of their social protection, the improvement of their living conditions and the improvement of their working conditions. This is indeed the proposal that the CFP brings here. And, Madam Member, let me tell you that either the PSD does not read the proposal that the PCP delivered or, then, has noticed it very badly. What the CFP proposes is very simple, Mrs Member : that a rate of 10 % is applied to the net added value of companies. If the contributions provided by companies to social security on wages exceed that net added value rate of 10, 5 %, companies must not pay anything to social security. [[PSD protests.]] by the visas, the PSD does not know and does not want to know the proposal of the PCP. If the contributions paid by companies to social security on wages are lower than the net added value rate of 10, 5 %, the value to be paid shall be the difference between those contributions and the value of the rate of 10, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u24	It is no longer 10, 5 %, Mrs Deputy, as the PSD wants to believe, that is not the reality. What we are proposing is a measure, a solution that effectively strengthens social security, which creates more robust social security and with conditions to better perform its functions in the social protection of workers and the Portuguese people. But we realize that the PSD does not want this solution, because what the PSD wants is to destroy social security so that it can deliver it to the private, pension funds and other financial applications. [[PCP applause.]] We want public, solidarity and universal social security. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u25	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u26	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Socialist Party welcomes the initiative of the CFP to present to Parliament a draft law on the extension of sources of social security financing, thus proving that this issue is of high importance to all Portuguese and that the Government's coalition partners are in perfect harmony with the central issues of the country. I would therefore like to congratulate the CFP on bringing this issue to Parliament and say that the PS and the Government feel exactly the same concerns. So much so that they have already approved two measures of high importance for the sustainability of social security, namely the provision of additional IMI ( municipal property tax ) and 0, 5 % of IRC ( income tax for the public ), up to two percentage points in 2021, to the ERDF ( Social Security Stabilisation Fund ), in order to ensure the payment of future pensions. In this regard, it is worth recalling the serious state in which the right has left us the public social security system, with the heavy austerity with which it ruled between 2011 and 2015, in particular by contributing to the exodus of tens of thousands of taxpayers, especially young taxpayers, and of companies that, by not bearing the tax burden and the enormous limitations to its growth, have moved to other geography, contributing there and not here. As for the demographic factor and its weight in the sustainability of social security, this is not of the total responsibility of right-wing governance, but has its share, in particular the amount, in the reduction of birth in Portugal and which will be felt in a few years. We are talking about the new families that were not formed in Portugal during that period, postponed for lack of employment, for low wages, for mass layoffs, for increased cost of living. This is the legacy of the right to the country and public social security. It was because of this negative picture that the right has left us in 2015 that this Government has presented and applied, with the support of the parties supporting it, a wide range of measures to recover income from families and businesses, stimulating demand, strengthening the exports of companies, lowering VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration, stimulating job creation, measures which, in turn, contribute, from the point of view of social contributions, either through tax, to channel more money for social security. And yet these measures have always been plunged by the parties on the right, despite the obvious positive impact they have had on Portuguese society and the national economy. We therefore understand the intent and intention of the CFP and the goodness of its proposal. We understand its scope. Profitable companies contribute better. But the government has tried to combine the two sides challenging this issue of social security sustainability, which are: how to increase public revenue sources without withdrawing income from citizens and not harming companies at a stage of economic recovery in the country, bearing in mind that the right to social protection is universal and constitutionally guaranteed, regardless of economic, demographic or other factors that may affect it. On the other hand, the economy is increasingly global and in the same way that citizens move to the search for better living conditions, companies also do so, also looking for more attractive conditions from a fiscal point of view for the establishment of their activities. Furthermore, the high technological complexity of large-volume revenue-generating companies is inversely proportional to its size, both of its physical size and of the number of workers. This means that a company with only one or two workers can generate many million euros of profits. And it does it both from Portugal, and from any other latitude. Therefore, the question arises: is it not important to make the balance sheet before increasing the tax burden, even if it is on the profits of companies, that it is up to 2021 to increase the revenue of the measures implemented by the government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u27	It's not tax burden!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u28	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u29	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr José Rui Cruz for his comments, saying that it is worth having, from a certain point of view of his intervention, introduced a « but» which makes us assume that the PS may not follow this proposal and bearing in mind that the issue of diversification of sources of social security financing is in the joint position signed by the PS and the CFP. Mr President, let me also say, at the moment, why you have spoken about the activity of companies and the need of companies to continue working, that a company in the footwear sector or in the textile sector with 400 workers contributes more to social security than a brokerage company in the stock market which, with half a dozen workers, has millions of profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u31	Is that fair, sir? This PCP project corrects this injustice. This project presented by the PCP makes companies that effectively have much more profits and that have much less workers contribute to social security also because of the wealth they produce, of the wealth that is produced. And it was very positive for social security, for the development of our country that this proposal from the CFP could be approved, so that there would be a complementary contribution to social security, strengthening the public system, the solidarity system and the universal system of social security. In fact, a strong and robust social security is an effective factor in the country's solid future and development. We cannot ignore or ignore the issue of the impact of the demographic factors which you have also referred to in your speech and to which the CFP is, of course, also attentive. Demographic factors, birth problems, for which, moreover, the CFP also presented various proposals to resolve them structurally, however, cannot serve as an excuse for reducing rights, nor can they serve as an excuse for nothing to be done. They must, of course, serve as a boost for measures to strengthen funding and expand sources of social security financing. That is what the CFP does with this proposal. It was good for the PS to think about it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u32	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate, on the proposal of the CFP, touches on a pillar of our democracy, the public social security system, an essential instrument of justice, solidarity between generations, redistribution of wealth, protection of people. Unfortunately, in recent years this debate has been devoted to numerous manipulations and has been agitated, using the pretext of the sustainability of social security, ghosts that must be removed from a serious and reasoned discussion on the subject. in the period of austerity, social benefits were reduced, the contribution system deteriorated, the value of measures to combat poverty, such as the RSI (social income of insertion) and the CSI (supportary complement for the elderly) was reduced, the financing of the system worsened inequality. This was done by cynically turning poor against the poor, young people against the older ones and invoking two false arguments: that according to which public social security would be unsustainable due to demographic changes and aging — “care for the ‘ grey plague’”, said one PSD Member — and another argument, according to which cutting incomes and pensions was a way to improve the sustainability of the system. Nothing more fake. The sustainability of social security is an eminently economic problem and it is a manipulation of the debate absoluteize the demographic argument. The threats to social security were never pensioners. What threatened the sustainability of social security was the growth of unemployment and the closure of enterprises, it was precariousness and forms of work outside the social contract, it was the low wages that mean less contributions, it was emigration, it removed from the country critical mass, work capacity and, of course, contributions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u34	He took off and he did! And pull!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u35	The great threat to social security was the spiral of impoverishment in which PSD and CDS plunged the country. at the end of 2015, Parliament changed and, with a new majority, this spiral was stopped. The recovery of income proved to be, against what so many people on the right and the center said, a condition to rescue public social security. in recent years, there have been important proposals from the left that proved this way. The increase in minimum wage and the effect of income recovery on job creation are an example. But there are others. According to the Left Block, the law of automatic updating of pensions was defrosted. In 2017 and 2018, the majority of parliament approved an extraordinary update for pensions that had increases below 10 €. According to the Government, in 2017, we made an extraordinary update of the solidarity complement for the elderly, who again rose this year, to bring back to this benefit the 70,000 elderly who were removed from the CIS by the PSD and the CDS. in the 2018 Budget, we included a pension supplement for the « injured Mota Soares », i.e. pensioners sentenced to poverty by the CDS-PP and by the rules of early retirement. We started doing justice to those who have far-reaching careers, that is, a whole life of discounts. This process has not only advanced this year because the Government and the Socialist Party are now blocking and delaying the second and third stage of the new regime for early retirement, with which they had indeed publicly committed themselves. We have changed the system of contributions from self-employed workers, from workers to green receipts. On 1 July, three or four days from now, the new social protection regime will enter into force, with more protection in unemployment, disease and monitoring of children. But the recovery of income had another effect: it also meant higher revenue for the state and greater revenue for social security. For this year, the budget provides for an increase of EUR 883 million in social security contributions. This also adds to the increase in social VAT — 27 million — from the additional to the IMI — the « Mortagua tax » on luxury real estate (50 million) — or the part of the tax on profits of companies which, since the beginning of this year, and by decision of this House, are returning to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security — 70 million. And this leads us to what we have to do. When we talk about the diversification of sources of funding for social security is because we want to strengthen and diversify the social responses and the protection of those who work. For months in this Parliament, under discussion in the field of specialty, draft law on shiftwork. It is also a debate on social security, on recognition of penosity, on access to reform capable of recognising the weariness of this work regime. You have to move on. It has been waiting for months for the government to respond to the petition of the stone workers and the recognition of the penosity of their profession. You have to move on. to workers over 40 years of contributing career, the government said it would end the sustainability cut, more than 14 %, at the value of the old-age pension. Moreover, the proposal has been presented in social consultation and also provides for the reduction of the legal age of reform based on the years of contributions. You have to move on. Caregivers and informal caregivers look forward to recognizing the care they provide, through a status that, among other things, values their pensions, recognizes the care provided and strengthens the social support that social security assigns to caregivers. You have to move on. The Socialist Party's argument that so many of these processes are in stand-by here in the Assembly of the Republic is the financial argument. Well, here we are having this debate on funding. There are recipes today. And there are concrete proposals to diversify the source of these revenues, in order to respond to the needs of those who work, of those who are pensioners, of those who are caregivers and caregivers. This intention of diversification consists, in fact, of the Socialist Party programme. So the question raised in this debate is relevant: will the Socialist Party be consistent with this commitment or, once again, defer concrete action in this area? one of the measures provided for in the programme, the Socialist Party and the Government have already set a bad example in the rate of turnover. Since 2009, the Contributing Code provides for a 3 % increase in the employer's contribution to the term contracts, but this measure has never been applied, such as company resistance. Modelling the TSU (unique social rate) on the basis of the type of contract would allow to collect, according to accounts of Mário Centeno, EUR 1000 million in 4 years of revenue for social security. These are the accounts of the Minister of Finance: 350 million in the first year, 250 in the second year, 200 in each of the other years. But in order to meet the interests of the bosses, the government has subsequently introduced ways of nullifying the effect and effectiveness of this measure. How? It began by establishing that the rate was at most 2 % and that its value would be progressive in relation to the deviation of the average turnover used by each sector. He then proposed not to cover all contracts: they do not enter into temporary or very short-term contracts and, from the term contracts, it is not clear which contracts they enter because the Government put in the proposal which it delivered on this subject the following exception: « Not all contracts concluded by conditionalisms inherent in the type of work or the situation of the worker». [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] The question remains: with so many exceptions, is there any company that will pay such a turnover rate? In view of the satisfaction of employers, particularly tourism and agriculture, it would be said that they do not. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The other debate is what the CFP here today brings with it a consistent, well-designed proposal that we fully monitor. in fact, technological developments and production methods advise that there are changes to the financing of social security to ensure the correct distribution of the system's funding effort. These changes do not mean cancelling the intergenerational social contract and financing through the contributions of workers and employers. But, as proposed, it is necessary to add to these contributions the contribution of intensive capital, which produces more value than the intensive labour force. It is necessary to re-equalise the way in which companies contribute. Therefore, these contributions should certainly be extended to the wealth created by companies, complementing wage-based contributions with contributions based on other components of value added. What happens today is that an increasing share of the wealth created escapes the payment of contributions. The advantages of this solution are therefore two: to distribute the contribution of companies and to strengthen social security by giving it robustness and stability. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was in the name of these challenges that this majority has made and it is in the name of these challenges that this majority should respond to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u36	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about the financing of the social security security system is to talk about a matter of great political, social and economic sensitivity. First, because we are talking about the financing of the current and future pensions of millions of Portuguese. Secondly, because this funding has huge repercussions, which must be carefully thought out, in businesses, employment and unemployment, in the competitiveness of our economy and in its relations with the global world. Thirdly, because our social security goes a long way towards budgetary imbalance. Fourthly, because the social security system is a delicate fabric where structural values of our collective experience are intertwined: solidarity, justice, equity, cohesion, equal opportunities, combating poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u39	Legislation on the financing of social security is an act that requires study, which the CFP has not done; requires open and shared debate, which the CFP has not done;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u41	... claims weighting and should influence the social commitment, which the CFP has not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u42	It's true! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u43	For the PCP, through its draft law, today under discussion, which repeats another 2015, which has expired without ever having been debated, what matters is to go to companies, apply them a supplementary contribution and establish a rate of 10, 5 %— plus one! — affecting its annual net value. A new contribution to be added to the contribution of 23, 75 % on the wages currently paid by companies. A contribution no one knows how much it costs! Mr Borges asked Mrs Mercês Borges several times how much it costs? and "what impacts can it have and what consequences can it generate?" Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The PCP did not respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u45	All this without a previous conversation, a very "take and shut up" decision! This is the easy and practical, definitive and perennial solution to solve the financial problems of our social security. A real Colombo egg! How did no one, before the PCP, remember such a bright solution? How did no one remember? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u46	Do you not know that this exists in countries such as Sweden and Denmark?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To rethink the sources of financing of the social security welfare system is imperative and necessary. It is imperative and necessary in the time when the economy of digitisation and robotisation are radically changing labour, employment and wage stability and predictability. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Listen, Mr. João Oliveira, you may learn something. [[Laughs and applause from PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u48	You've seen that you haven't, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u49	Listen, sir, I'm trying to explain something. Or at least I'm trying to explain myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u50	from what I've heard, I don't think you learn anything! [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u51	It is imperative and necessary in a time of public deficit accounts and unheard of pressures on public social security systems, which see the number of their taxpayers to decrease and the number of their beneficiaries to increase and grow. However, this imperativeity and need for profound, systemic, weighted and mobilizing reform of public social security should not cause us to lose our mind or to be affected by desperate acts. The PSD rejects this PCP project because it is a desperate and extremely foolish act. Let us see: in a country already crushed by taxes and contributions, it is simply going to companies and another contribution is required. And this without telling them anything, without talking to the entrepreneurs, without negotiating anything in exchange, just because the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) so requires. [[PSD applause.]] This is a contribution to apply on the day following the publication of the future, if any, possible law that the CFP would wish to see approved. We are well aware that CGTP and the PCP antagonize entrepreneurs and capital, « the great capital ». But it is appropriate to remember that there are no entrepreneurs. And without companies there are no workers. And without workers there are no contributions to social security. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u52	Moreover, in the volatile and globalized world in which we live, companies, especially those of greater size, those where you wanted to take the sack, through the new supply or contribution, easily change geography. It would be unwise, a finished insanity to approve the adventure that is this bill. Especially because Portugal would be introducing a penalty to companies that have no parallel in any other country of the European Union. [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] With the PSD votes, this measure, implemented in this way, will not be approved. If that were the case, Portugal would see a burgeoning of its most modern and innovative companies, a destruction of thousands and thousands of jobs, especially of the most stimulating, attractive and technological, causing an incommensurable rumb in the accounts of social security already chronically deficient. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Everything contrary to what the CFP aims and sets out. An absurd! A communist ideological perverseness that the beneficiaries of social security, particularly pensioners, would pay with palm language. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for social security reform? Yeah, it's necessary and it's very urgent. However, this reform cannot be carried out with rough, poorly thought-out measures and dictated by ideologies that history has destroyed and buried. That the budgetary balance of social security is in accelerated degradation is well in view,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u53	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u54	... when comparing, for example, the 2008 and 2018 social security sustainability reports, reports on the collective responsibility of two socialist governments and the unique responsibility of the unique Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva. If, in 2008, it was predicted that the social security security system would enter into imbalance after 2030, in the 2018 report, ten years later, the social security system will already be strongly unbalanced before — under ‘the previous’ — of 2030!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u55	It's true! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u56	On the other hand, the difference in the value of the social security reserve fund provided for in the 2008 and 2018 budgets, already to 2 years, is less than EUR 5000 million, i.e. about half of the cost of pensions under the 2017 pension scheme. An all-inclusive disaster scene! I could refer to disheartening demographic projections or unbalanced relationships between daily workers and pensioners, or to the pessimistic scenarios of future growth in the economy and employment, especially young people, to reiterate this disaster scenario. Everyone knows these projections and these scenarios. For the PSD, therefore, public social security must be able to fully assume its current and future responsibilities towards millions of citizens who have trusted and trusted it. For the PSD, the robustness of the values of trust, security, solidarity and justice inherent in the social security system must be realized in a healthy and dialogueable relationship with the economy, with the entrepreneurs, with the workers, promoting the most appropriate adjustments to the challenges and changes in the world in which we live. For the PSD, a broad debate is needed, where everyone participates and no one is excluded. For all this, the PSD proposed, in June 2016, then in November 2016 and for the third time in November 2017, the creation of a committee for the reform of social protection systems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u57	You don't know what you have to propose to do a committee anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u58	... to operate in the Assembly of the Republic, so that within 180 days, that committee, with multiple and diversified participation, would present a global proposal — a 'global' — and systemic, non-parametric, social security reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u60	Three times the PSD presented the proposal, three times the PCP rejected it, as well as the PS and the Block. He rejected it with the swindled arguments of the custom: that we were alarmists, that we wanted to privatize social security, that we wanted to give the money of social security to the great capital! [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] The communist litany of the custom, isn't it, Mrs. Diana Ferreira? Now, the CFP has come to confess that we were right: that social security needs even more money to pay benefits, pensions, subsidies and subsidies to its beneficiaries. There's something coming from the PCP! It is already something coming from Rue Soeiro Pereira Gomes or from Rue Vitor Cordon. What about the socialist government? in the Government Programme, Antonio Costa promised that he had as priority « the strict assessment of the state of social security ». Where is this strict assessment? We don't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u61	It's in the results!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u62	We don't know! Who knows the 'transparent, retrospective and prospective studies' announced by the government? We've never seen them! Where for the "permanent monitoring and monitoring" mechanism of the state of social security? He stopped, if he ever walked!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u64	Where did the study « on strengthening the financing and sustainability of social security through the diversification of its sources of financing»? They give themselves alvisaras to whom to find study size. Promises, promises and more promises! In view of the increasing seriousness of the social security situation, the government is engaged in unmet and very small and misleading cosmetic measures. For example, when it created the additional municipal property tax ( AIMI ) in 2017, the Government announced a revenue of EUR 160 million for social security. You've deceived us! It was only EUR 50 million, i.e. a third of the value announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u65	Less than half!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u66	Gross error of assessment or deliberate illusion? Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro will tell us if it was an error of assessment or a deliberate illusion. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] The urgent reform of social security requires more than cosmetic, financially insignificant and accounting measures. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive, structural reform of social security, which is properly planned, debated and dialogue. A reform that looks at the revenue component, adjusting it to the new realities in which we live. A reform that places the present and future benefits that the system should be able to make available to citizens, ensuring intergenerational solidarity, but also trust and predictability. A reform that corrects past mistakes and gives contributing citizens a sense of responsibility and guarantees of future stability in a system that is of everyone and for all. The PSD now, as in the past, is available for this reform, a reform where, first and always, Portuguese are. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u67	Mr Adam Silva, the Bureau has two Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u68	I shall reply together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u69	The first is Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u70	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva wanted me to speak and I am very pleased to do so. I heard the honourable Member, who talked about an open debate on thinking, on studies, on reforms, on consensuss, on 'let us forget ideologies'. Mr President, until we can agree with a substantial part of this, it has happened that it was exactly the opposite of what the PSD did when it was in government. when listening to Mr Deputy, it seems important to see, in this debate, whether the PSD is in a state of denial, mystification or, finally, if it is in a state of redemption. The PSD has to define itself, it has to say what it wants — democracy gains from the breadth of the alternatives — which cannot be claimed by what it has not done or wanted the gains of what it has fought for. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Would you like the data to be presented here? I am pleased to give you the data: social security is with a positive balance of 15, 7 %, higher in May of this year than the previous year, the surplus increased from EUR 564 million to EUR 1652 million and ended the extraordinary transfers that you made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u71	You too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u72	...because, at your time, it was difficult. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you know why this happens, Mr? This is because we have done exactly the opposite of what you wanted us to do and continue to defend that we do, contrary to what you believe in and voted on here. Therefore, the measure of our success in this area is the evidence of your failure as a political alternative to this government and this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the PS advocates diversification of sources of social security financing. This is in the Government Programme and has already been done with the additional to the IMI and with the allocation of some of the revenues of the IRC ( income tax for the public) to the EFSS ( Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security ). We did it to ensure more sustainability and density to the public model, the universal model and the sustainable model. You know what the PSD did, sir? The PSD proposed the elimination of the supplement to the IMI. Therefore, I would like the PSD to clarify here, this time, ultimately, if it continues to live on this alternative planet, in which 0, 7% of household tax over 600 000 € or 1% of household tax over EUR 1 million constitutes an attack on the middle class, and if it intends to end these rates on millionaire assets and removes it from public social security, whether it is for the poor or for the rich. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What do we have to do with it, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What are we staying on? We know why the PSD is against the diversification of sources and apparently against the additional IMI. It is that the PSD is against public and universal social security, compulsory and intergenerational, a model in which you simply do not believe. That is why it is very important for us to make clear what the PSD thinks about this matter and I ask you for objective answers to some specific questions, so that we all know what we are counting on. [[That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u73	Sir, do you know what this is? This is the electoral program of the PSD and CDS-PP. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the document he mentioned.]] in this electoral programme, we can read the following: introduction of ceilinging, introduction of partial privatization of social security, introduction of supplementary plans for compulsory reform for young people. Do you know what this is, Mr? This is your Government Programme. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the document he mentioned.]] It was brought down here in the Assembly of the Republic in good time: an effective bet on the development of complementary reform plans, ceiling of social security...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u74	And you know what capping is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u75	... and privatization of social security. Sir, do you know what this is? This is the stability programme your Government presented for 2015 - 2019. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the document he mentioned.]] Today we would have a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You are here in the framework of your Stability Programme! This is the PSD proposal for the sustainability of social security! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So, Mr. Deputy, cuts, privatisations, plot, radicalism. State of denial, state of mystification or finally state of redemption—what is the state of the PSD in this debate? That's what the Portuguese would like to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u76	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u77	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u78	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, the honourable Member even began well because he said that the debate on social security financing should be a very thoughtful debate. But then, when we were waiting to hear a thoughtful intervention, with this start, we heard your intervention, which, in fact, weighed very little. The honourable Member said that this issue needed a study and that the CFP presented a proposal without a study. Well, the PSD says it needed a study but didn't even read the proposal and therefore obviously regardless of other studies, which would certainly be useful, it was worth at least that the PSD had read the PCP project. [[PCP applause.]] from which it is seen that what has just been said about the proposal has no basis, because it said that a tax burden was being proposed here in addition to the discounts that companies already make for social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u79	And isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u80	It is that what is clearly the result of this project is that the formula proposed by the CFP in relation to net added value would only apply if it resulted in an amount beyond what companies are already paying today. In other words, if the amount that companies are already paying for social security was higher than the application of this formula, it would not be applied. Therefore, the honourable Member has completely passed the bill that the CFP has submitted, i.e. has forged the content of the project to enable it to caricature and, in fact, this is all less a thoughtful contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u82	He also said that the CFP presented a proposal 'takes and shuts up'! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, it is not so much « take there and shut up! We have heard it with all our attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u83	That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u84	Therefore, the CFP presented a bill to be discussed and what we want is that there is a weighted and serious discussion about the financing of social security and not a caricature of debate, which unfortunately resulted from its intervention. We would like, in fact, to see all parties, including the PSD, engage constructively in a serious debate that this House must make on the financing of social security. The honourable Member said that social security was on the way to imbalance—it was his statement. The question that can be asked is this: what does the PSD propose to address this imbalance? We know that social security is better now than it was in the time of the PSD government / CDS, because obviously the economy is better than it was in the time of PSD / CDS. And we also know that there are fundamental issues that contribute to the balance of social security, and that is all the opposite of what you did when you were in government. It is because, with you, the increase in the parallel economy, emigration, precariousness and low wages, all of this has contributed to the imbalance in social security. That is why today social security is better than it was in your time. But what we know about the PSD's proposals is the commitment that the PSD presented in Brussels to reduce, in this legislature, if it had remained in the government, more than EUR 600 million in the pensions and reforms of Portuguese. That's it, we know! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u85	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u86	And speaking of « take there and shut up! , this is not the proposal of the CFP ; « take there and shut up! » that's what you did when you cut wages and pensions! [[PCP applause.]] Have you heard the social partners? When did you decide to cut salaries and allowances and when you dropped pensions did you hear the social partners? Did they ask what they thought about it? Well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious that in the PSD speech this is another opportunity for the coming of the devil. The devil has not come so far, the PSD prophecies have not been fulfilled. Ah, but with this PCP project for social security he would come! That's where the devil would come from about our economy! But, Mr President, in conclusion, you know who is proposing to change the paradigm of social security financing, and I am quoting, « (...) by subsidising intensive labour enterprises to the detriment of intensive capital(...) »? Do you know who's proposing this? The PCP bill does so, but the text I just quoted is from the motion of the TSD ( Social Democratic Workers) presented to the PSD Congress.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u87	It has nothing to do with it! It's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u88	It's the devil, isn't it, Mr. Adam Silva? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u89	Do not mix what's good with what's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u90	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u91	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, in fact, extraordinary transfers from the State budget have been made between 2012 and 2017 so that the social security welfare system will not break down. I said "between 2012 and 2017" — see! — i.e. EUR 4600 million up to 2015 and EUR 1000 million in 2016 and 2017. See that they also shared this idea! And it was an excellent idea, in fact, even I would say that the country should raise a statue to Dr. Vítor Gaspar for making this transfer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u92	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u93	It's true! Do you know why, Your Honor? Because otherwise, what would have happened was an exhaustion of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund or, then, a breakdown of the social security system. And you know why, Your Honor? Because we, in 2012, when we took power and ruled, we received a totally exangenous country. Take a good look! Who frozen the minimum social security pensions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u94	O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u95	Who cut the family allowance?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u96	O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u97	Is it better now? Of course you're better, sir! We have left the conditions for the growth of the economy and employment, and we have seen this growth, Mr President. It gives us great joy that the final balance of the social security system is growing. That's great! That's great! As for the ceiling, it is provided for in the Social Security Bases Act, approved by PS, Mr. There's the ceiling! Where's the problem? On the question of supplementary schemes, ask Dr. Vieira da Silva. He explains to you how this matter is in the Social Security Basics Act. Maybe I should talk to him, because he explains it to him perfectly. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Sir, let me be constructive. You ask which side I am on and I tell you that I am on the side of the construction and that is why we have proposed to this global committee that we can, openly, build lasting social security, responsible and capable of fulfilling its commitments. Mr António Filipe, have you not read the PCP bill? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, I have read how! I will even challenge you, if you will allow me, and you will not harm me, because you are a lawyer of the best that exists in Parliament. You have to tell me where Article 2 (2) is. the, which is referred to in Article 5 ( 2 ). o. Where's your project?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u98	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u99	Now, tell me something else: where is the formula of Article 3 (2). o?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u100	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u101	Didn't I read, sir? Oh, my God! I read and found the horrendous mistakes that you left in your bill. It shouldn't have been done that way. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member asks me what we're going to do. Now, we are in favour of diversifying sources of funding. Yes, sir! Sure! It has to be! It's fundamental!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u102	Is that an IMI? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u103	And I say more to you: we do not see how wrong it is to rely on the question of the single social rate, by means of an additional contribution from companies which are not one social rate — we see no harm in this. The change in the business framework also requires that this be done. What I said is that it can't be done the way you want it, it has to be weighted. Refunding things must be calculated, and there are many sources of alternative funding. [[PS and PCP protests.]] So, isn't there, sir? Oh, my God! So many! I can quote you here 10 in a row! No problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u104	Don't quote 10, quote only 5!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u105	We are in favor of diversification, which cannot be the kick,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u106	Say two!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u107	... what can't be is spooking and mistreating companies, because they generate jobs and have workers who discount for social security, who support themselves and who are able to continue living. So it is clear here that the PSD is in favour of diversification...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u108	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u109	... but not in the form of'similar' as the PCP wants. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u110	What about the 10 alternative sources of funding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u111	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented to us today for discussion is first of all to demonstrate that there are alternatives, that there are solutions to maintain the public, universal and solidarity of the public social security system. And I'm glad there's solutions. I am glad that there are solutions to preserve this public system because, in fact, social security, universal and solidarity is an absolutely decisive element when we talk about the promotion of social justice and the distribution by all Portuguese of income generated in the country. This means that when we take measures to preserve the public, universal and supportive nature of social security, we are guaranteeing the promotion of social justice. And these measures are today more timely than ever, because, as all certainly well remember, during the governance period of the previous Government, the PSD/CDS-PP government, the pretext of ensuring the financial sustainability of social security in the face of the crisis that has settled between us and also the pretext of the need to reduce the deficit, the public social security system has experienced a profound process of fragility. However, this process of fragility promoted by the previous Government, as it had envisaged, not only seriously compromised the basis for financing social security as it still caused a significant reduction in the right to social security, with particular seriousness among the unemployed, the elderly and the beneficiaries of non-contributory social benefits. A reduction in rights that, moreover, was decisive in order to worsen the levels of poverty in our country and in order to accentuate social inequalities among Portuguese people. And, as the Greens also warned at the time, the problem of the public social security system did not lie with social benefits. The problem was in the policies that marked the right passage through the country's destinations. I am referring, for example, to the financial consequences for the public social security system resulting from the closure of businesses and unemployment which the policies of the previous government have promoted and strengthened, drastically reducing the working environment. We refer, for example, to the financial impacts that precariousness and low-wage policies have caused in the public social security system. And if there is any conclusion to be drawn regarding the policies followed in this area, during those four long and painful years, it is sufficient to look at the evolution that occurred from 2016 onwards, already with the PSD and the CDS-PP away from the government. In fact, without much effort, we see a significant improvement in the financial situation of the public social security system due, on the one hand, to the growth of contributions and, on the other, to the decrease in expenditure on social unemployment, due to the decrease in the number of unemployed. However, it should also be noted that this improvement in the financial situation of the public social security system is taking place exactly during a period during which rights and income have been reintroduced, including the extraordinary updating of pensions, the strengthening of family benefits or the thawing of the social support indexer. In view of this picture and in view of these figures, the conclusion to be drawn is that this is the way, a path to the replacement of rights and incomes, which is important to continue. And in order to continue this path of replacing rights and income at the level of social security, it is important not only to look at the issues of birth and the demographic decline of our country, but also, immediately, it is necessary to ensure the strengthening of the financing of the public social security system. in this regard, the Greens consider that it is necessary, first and foremost, to diversify the sources of social security financing. For this reason, we look carefully at the proposal that the Portuguese Communist Party brings us today for discussion and which provides for a complementary contribution of companies that have more profits, but which contribute little to social security, bearing in mind the net wealth reflected at the level of net added value(VAL). In fact, this proposal will not only contribute decisively to ensuring the financial sustainability of social security as it still carries with it a concern for justice, since it places the wealth produced to contribute to the financing of the public social security system, while at the same time strengthening the sustainability of social security itself, which is public, universal and solidarity. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u113	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This agenda is not about social security. This agenda is also not about the sustainability of social security. [[PCP protests.]] We have heard here today that social security has surpluses. And the repeatedly stated idea is that, today, there is no problem of social security sustainability, it is overcome and it is part of the past. One question is therefore needed: why, then, a new rate and a new contribution on companies to the financing of social security? [[For the pensions!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u115	The answer tells us that the focus of this debate is only one. And the focus of the PCP, as it was in the past, as it was 40 years ago, is still the same, which is the profit, the value of companies. The focus is only the pursuit of the remuneration of the risk of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u116	That's a tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u117	It is therefore not a new theme, coming from who comes from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u118	There he is! It's the CDS tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u119	About a year ago, the CFP submitted a proposal in the same terms. And we know that the CFP repeatedly aims to create taxes on employers, as if the high burden that companies have is no longer enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u120	Cohabitants! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u121	It is regrettable that a topic of the greatest importance for the future of Portuguese and for the present of social security with agendas that clearly have another focus, and is an ideological focus. If it were another issue, if it were another concern, it was necessary to ask, in the weighting of a new burden on companies, whether or not the tax burden on companies in Portugal is already high. In comparison with the countries that compete with our economy, does Portugal have or does it not have a high tax burden? And are the countries that have a tax burden lower than Portugal or are not growing more than Portugal? What are the risks of a policy which repeatedly pursues the creation of value and the creation of profit? None of these questions are of concern to the CFP. And he does not worry about responding until he promotes any kind of social dialogue, any kind of social dialogue. This is an initiative which is brought here without any concern of involvement of economic activity, employers and workers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is at this point that we realize that in Portugal we do not always move forward and that the proposals that bring us the parties of always have only as a result of leading Portugal to new setbacks that lead to greater poverty and less wealth creation and that represent also a threat to workers. The CDS-PP presented, in May 2015, about three years ago, a proposal that had a very clear direction:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u122	Oh, I had, I had!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u123	... created the information system for reform and the supplement for reform and gave each worker the opportunity to voluntarily discount for the current public social security system...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u124	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u125	... in the capitalisation pillar, under the supplement for the reform. If the worker constituted this supplement, the CDS proposal said that the employer could make contributions to accompany this increase as well. On this point, the PCP did not want to dialogue and limited itself to chuming the CDS initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u126	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u127	But our proposal has a different direction, because it involves all, it involves workers and entrepreneurs and it also holds the State accountable, as at the time it held it responsible for tax benefits. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has a coherent position, affirming the need to find funding for social security. It does not do so in a sectarian or divisional way, as the CFP here has done, by presenting a proposal which is lame, fragile and unsustainable and which represents a backwardness, which is why it cannot, in any way, deserve our approval. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u128	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social security system is today one of the fundamental pillars to ensure solidarity and social cohesion in democratic societies. Therefore, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in the chapter on « Social rights and duties », sets out in Article 63. , which « All have the right to social security ». And it further states, in committing to the State the duty to ensure, organize, coordinate and subsidize a unified and decentralized social security system, with the participation of trade unions, other workers' organisations and associations representative of the other beneficiaries. The implementation of this constitutional imposition is primarily ensured by the law approving the general foundations of the social security system and by the other legislation governing social security systems. Our social security system is thus a system of all and for all citizens: we all have obligations to it and we all have rights to it. It is a system of collective responsibility, with a view to promoting more social cohesion and solidarity among citizens. The problem of financing the social security system cannot be tackled alone. The structural factors that affect it and impact on its sustainability are deeply connected with the other macroeconomic policies, especially those related to employment and the labour market, economic growth, education, health and the promotion of birth. The social benefit training model and the financing model of the social security system cannot therefore be separated from the regulatory mechanisms of the labour market, the tax system, the incentives for aging and birth, and the policies for promoting the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. Let us remember the disastrous impact that the economic crisis and the unemployment of the troika's years had on the poor performance of social security, and we will clearly understand that the problem of sustainability of the social security system goes far beyond its mere financial dimension. The accelerated evolution of our society also requires that the social security system be prepared to adapt to the continuing social changes and changes of the economy. That is, we cannot build a dated model of financing and sustainability, unable to adapt to changes and respond to different realities, especially in times of crisis. The reduction of the active population, demographic ageing, technological progress, increasingly accelerated economic cycles and transformers pose new challenges to the functioning and sustainability of our social security system. It is therefore not possible to move forward towards a reform of the social security financing model with avulden measures and without a consistent diagnosis and planning for the future of the system, which takes into account the main exogenous variables that condition it, such as economic growth and demography. This diagnosis and planning, being the responsibility of the State, should have the participation of all economic, social and political actors who assess the changes they must and can be introduced in order to ensure financial sustainability and adequate income for all citizens. The economy is essential for the sustainability of the social security system and any reform of this system cannot penalise policies that promote job creation, the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and the people's available income. We therefore need a comprehensive and interconnected analysis of the social security system and its priorities. We do not need specific measures, which may even call into question the real sources of financing of the system and the balance of responsibilities distributed between workers and businesses and between current generations and future generations. The PS has taken as priority the recovery of the available income of families, workers and pensioners. In addition, it is worth recalling some of the measures implemented by the current government : it gradually restored the reference values of the supplementary pension for the elderly ( CSI ) ; it gradually restored the reference values of the social income of insertion ( CSR) ; it carried out the automatic updating of pensions of the contribution and non-contributory schemes ; it carried out an extraordinary update of pensions in August 2017, and will proceed to another in August 2018, as a way to compensate for the loss of purchasing power of minimum pensions that were not updated between 2011 and 2015 ; it updated the disability benefits ; it increased the allowance for assistance to third parties; it updated the amounts of family allowance; it increased the amount of family allowance for single-parent families ; it created the social benefit for the inclusion of persons with disabilities; it created a new system contributing to workers with green receipts; and increased social benefits through the increase of the IAS (indicative of social support). But at the same time as we applied for this additional effort to the social security system, it was ensured that for the first time since 2012 there was no need for the extraordinary transfer of the State budget to compensate for the deficit in the social security system. This objective was achieved thanks to the success of job creation and economic growth policies through increased contributions to social security, which increased 5, 8 % in 2017, and will grow 5, 6 % in 2018, but also because the route of diversification of sources of social security financing has already begun is successful, especially through the recent allocation of IMI and IRC revenues. The PS is, as it has always been, available to discuss the modernization and sustainability of the social security system. This debate must be held not only in this Parliament but also with the social partners, as enshrined in the Constitution. A discussion based on credible studies of the impact of the proposed measures, so as not to prejudice the macroeconomic policies essential to the sustainability of the system. The Government has complied with that established in the PS electoral programme and in the Government programme. It has diversified sources of social security financing and has guarded the future of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Our political objective will always be to defend a public system of universal, sustainable social security capable of responding to the social protection needs of all citizens. That's how we're on the right track. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u130	Mr President, the Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u131	I shall reply together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u132	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u133	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, we have listened carefully to your speech and have heard - and I say - of course, we follow - in this statement - that the sustainability of social security exceeds its financial dimension. And it showed distancing in relation to appreciable measures that ignore economic growth and demography as decisive challenges to be called in this area as well. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to you and followed you on this point, but then you went to the final statement of your speech, when you said that the PS is an open party, which are available for dialogue and for proposals that are credible in this regard — I read a criticism of the proposal that we are presenting today, because you do not have underlying credible studies. The truth is, Mr President, that on all the issues we have been discussing in the Assembly of the Republic, which are underlying the problem of social security, as you have said, whether economic or demographic problems, have been several initiatives brought here by opposition parties to call on the Government for dialogue and the truth is that they invariably shudder with arrogance and isolationism on the part of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u135	And if today they do it in front of whom we consider to be sectarian and divisionist, not in themselves but in the proposal itself, the truth is that they have done the same on the other side of the bench, and we still talked about it yesterday. The CDS presented 25 proposals on birth, all of them plummeted! The CDS has submitted several proposals on the problems of aging and active aging, but they are all plummeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u136	It's because they're good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u137	What we see is a party that, interestingly, closes the dialogue to the left and, interestingly, closes the dialogue to the right,... [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u138	... it follows its path, but it follows a path that does not suit the country, because, in fact, it is not building anything of the future, it is not looking at the real problems of the country, it is only corresponding to an electoral agenda that holds the PS until the next elections, hoping that in the next elections it can perpetuate it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies Carlos César and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] This is the problem of the country: the PS says it talks but actually does not dialogue. I ask you, Mr Bexiga, in which is it that what you have said is available for dialogue? Tell us here, in front of this House, that this willingness of the PS to work with all those who are not or do not have the Socialist Party record is realized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u139	That's a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u140	We have cards, we don't have chips!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u141	Mr António Filipe has the floor now, too, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u142	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, it would be said that your intervention could have all the cabbage in a colloquium on social security, where concrete issues and concrete solutions to the problems affecting the social security system were not under discussion. So we can say that you have made an interesting intervention, that you have a diagnosis, with which we can all agree more or less, but then there is an essential question, which is the following: before the recognition of problems that it is important to face, how do they face? In fact, this is the issue and that is what was lacking in your intervention. It is clear that we recognize in our project and in the interventions we have made here that the fact that there has been a favourable economic development in our country in recent times, in contrast to what has happened in the previous legislature, has been positive for social security for reasons of substance, for reasons that are related to the functioning of the economy. But we all recognize, and he also acknowledged, that there are problems, particularly in a demographic sense, that require a very serious reflection on the diversification of sources of social security financing. So much so that in the joint declaration that was made at the beginning of this Parliament, between the PS and the CFP, with regard to this Parliament, one of the issues which the two parties agreed should be the subject of a debate and a common consideration was that of strengthening and diversifying sources of social security financing, opening the doors for a debate that we both recognize is necessary and must be done. Well, in the face of a concrete proposal which we are presenting here, it is a little, as it would be said in football terms, to "strike to the corner" and therefore does not participate constructively in a concrete proposal which is presented here and which would, from our point of view, indeed, be a good starting point for a discussion which we undertake to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u144	so that his intervention, in a way, frustrates what we would expect from the contribution of the Socialist Party in this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u145	You also have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u146	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, regarding his speech, has indicated some areas in which many of us are fighting, for example, the consideration of social security as a fundamental pillar of our democracy — it is true! — or as the State which has the fundamental task of guaranteeing, for all and for all — is true! — or, moreover, as a universal system that serves all equally. It's true! But he also said that the sustainability of the social security system goes beyond financial issues, and that is also true. however, here, the questions begin to arise about how it responds, after all, to the problem of sustainability. In fact, it is not only about financial matters, but it has a lot to do — and this part, in its speech, was not clear — about the precariousness and the kind of working ties that exist in our country. It was important to recall again that measures must be more effective in combating precariousness. We had a path that would be interesting and important in this matter, but, and we have already mentioned it in our intervention, unfortunately, these measures to combat precariousness remained, and they are far from what is actually necessary not only for the lives of workers but also for the sustainability of social security itself. It is sufficient to recall, again, the question of the rate of turnover and of, as it, after several changes by the Socialist Party, ending, in its final version, by losing all effectiveness in relation not only to the sustainability of social security but also to the effective fight against precariousness. Therefore, Mr President, considering also the other intervention of the Socialist Party in this debate on this matter, it is important to clarify what the Socialist Party's position is after all. There were some good arguments about social security, with some of which we agreed, at least on the left, there were also cleavage positions with the right, and well, positions, these, which are correct, because the right was who most destroyed and who wanted to privatize, but then it was missing to realize, after all, about a concrete proposal that is under discussion, what will be the position of the Socialist Party. Or do these differences, these cleavages only serve the speech and will not serve the vote? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u147	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u148	Mr President, following the order of speeches, I would like to say to Mr Anacoreta Correia of the CDS Parliamentary Group that the PS is not arrogant!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u150	The PS has its convictions, has its project... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and is certain: he does not want to continue with the policies with which the CDS and PSD in the years of the troika have transformed this country...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u151	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u152	... and have transformed the Portuguese population, with the crisis that we all know and that it is so hard for us to recover, with the measures of this government. We are available for dialogue and are available to accept good solutions, but we want good solutions. We cannot accept bad solutions and, when we vote against the proposals put forward by the CDS, it is because we do not agree with these solutions and we understand that they are not solutions that bring about a future for the realities that we have today to regulate, namely the demographic problem and especially the problem of birth. Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, I wanted to note the following: our social security system, despite the weaknesses that it effectively has, has a very significant recovery potential. It is sufficient to analyze at the moment the data presented by the social security system, demonstrating that it has had a very large recovery, accompanying the evolution of the economy and the evolution of the employment creation policies of this government. We therefore advocate that any solution to intervene in the social security system must be an integrated, flexible solution and that it has the impact of its properly studied introduction, under the penalty of destroying the balance and functioning of a system that is currently operational and of creating a problem for the future that future generations will later have to solve. To Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block, I would say that the solution, for us, to solve the sustainability problems of the social security system is a very strong commitment to employment creation policies and economic growth policies. And, of course, we follow the concerns of the Left Block, in that we cannot create any job; we want a better job, a more qualified job, a better paid job, because that will be the solution to increasing the revenue of the system. But on matters of labour law, we will have a debate next week and we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue. One thing is certain: what this government is implementing — and which, in fact, is in the PS Electoral Programme — demonstrates that it is working. So what we want is to continue to bet on this path, creating solutions that, in fact, give effective sustainability to our social security system, for the future, and creating conditions so that, in crisis situations, we do not have to live again what we live in the years of the troika. This is our great goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u153	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is ending, dedicated to a bill that aims to extend the sources of social security financing, the theme—as it has been once again assumed by almost all stakeholders here today—which is of the greatest importance and the greatest importance. Thanks to various factors, among which we can highlight those linked to the issues of low birth and the increase in the average life expectancy and also the financing and sustainability of the social security system, it is a matter that should be of concern to all those responsible, political and non-political. Therefore, it makes sense to recall the Report on the Financial Sustainability of Social Security, which the Government disclosed in the 2017 State Budget Report, in which it was admitted that, and I quote, « The first negative balances of the social security system are expected by the mid-2020s, growing to about 2040s but not projecting values above 1 % of GDP, and then expected to fall to 0, 5 % of GDP by 2060s ». We cannot therefore ignore these facts. It is also true that the complexity of this matter is not compatible with simple, torn, hasty and even duly studied solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u155	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u156	The CFP, unfortunately, applies the recipe of custom, that is, more charges for companies, entities that, in fact, seem to continue to diabolize, making all the sense that it is claimed that the CFP, if possible, would abolish the creation of wealth itself, which often seems to consider obscene! And the truth is this, ladies and gentlemen. Members: without the creation of wealth, no social security system is sustainable, not only in Portugal, as nowhere else does that happen! The problem of the path proposed in this debate would not even lead to the results desired by its proponents. Let us see: increasing company contributions further does not ensure that companies accept this new tax. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be very careful when we change matters such as labour law and social security, under the penalty of results being the opposite of those intended.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u158	We can therefore ask whether the CFP can ensure that, from its proposal, there will necessarily be an increase in the financing of the social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u159	We can, we can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u160	It seems to us that it is not, and this has once again become apparent. The CFP cannot guarantee this because, perhaps contrary to what it would dream, it does not command or participate in the management of private companies, wealth-creators and jobs. These, particularly the largest, the most modern, the most versatile or the most innovative, would soon adapt to the circumstances created by the new law and would not cease to take the measures of economic rationality that the same reality would impose on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u162	Would we then see the CFP proposing new laws banning — or, at least, retaliating strongly — that companies should initiate relocation processes? How far would your demagogy go?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u163	Are they threatening tax fraud? I can't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u164	The extreme-left parties are very successful in proclaiming the defence of workers, as they are also, unfortunately, in destroying the conditions of employment. They do not realize that their hatred of companies only harms workers. The absence of a reformist spirit prevents them from understanding that reality is much more complex than its ideological and radical simplism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the solutions now presented by the Communist Party suffer from the vices of extremism, unrealism, social confrontation and even rejection of the principles and dynamics of market economies, the PSD reaffirms once again today its interclassist, reformist and solidarity vocation and considers social security reform to be one of the main and most urgent challenges facing Portuguese society. We know the need of our country to ensure the sustainability of its social protection system. We do not know the effects that increasing the average life expectancy, on the one hand, and lowering the birth rate, on the other hand, have on the sustainability of our social security—even today we have also called attention to the need to build a platform of understanding on the matters of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u166	And in these matters, concerning social security, we believe that the solutions must be found in economic growth and not in the increase in the contributions of economic operators, whether they are workers or employers. Only by economic growth and by strengthening the conditions of competitiveness of companies can the country continue to reduce unemployment and increase the opportunities for Portuguese access to the labour market. For PSD, these are essential conditions, not only for the social development of the country, but also for strengthening the financing of social security. Today, here too, the differences between the so-called statistician ideology parties and the reformist parties, defenders of the free economy, as with the PSD, were patented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u167	Free was the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo )! That's free economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u168	While the Communist Party's revenue is limited to rising contributions and taxes, the Democratic Social Party defends the increase in labour and the growth of national wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u170	instead of open solutions, partial, unpredictable effects and risks that the bidders themselves dare to quantify, we prefer to bet on mechanisms that promote upward social mobility and reduce inequalities and poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u172	To that end, and to conclude Mr President, the PSD has always been available in both the government and the opposition to participate in a deep political and social debate that contributes to a desirable parliamentary commitment extended in social security matters, as well as in other matters of obvious importance for the future of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u173	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Galamba, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u174	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the CFP on bringing the debate today on its bill on the diversification of sources of social security financing. I believe that this and the various debates we have had in this House on social security show a clear division between two fields and it is curious that one of these fields, consisting of PSD and CDS, speaks insistently of ideology and reality, accusing others of being divorced from reality. I believe that no debate on social security can be held, without everyone recognizing that everyone is going into this debate with an ideological position. And yet they do, because an ideological view of problems structures the diagnosis that we make about these problems and also defines which way to solve these same problems. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] The PSD and the CDS, still the other day, the pretext of the SNS (National Health Service ), criticized the PCP, the Block and the PS for having statistical views, and now they have repeated it again. I'm going to give the PSD and CDS something new: it's that SNS and social security are, yes, statistical projects, and so on! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was this statistic project that in the 20th century, in this and other countries—often with the participation of social democrats, that you are neither and never have been, and of Christian Democrats who, certainly, the CDS is not, I don't know if it has been, but today is certainly not — has shown that we can have very different views on the economy in many matters, but the model of social protection in health and social protection against unemployment and old age has been effective throughout the 20th century. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u175	Where is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u176	And, for these statistical projects, an alternative has not yet been found, in my opinion, because it does not exist, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u178	Therefore, if the PSD and CDS have an ideological problem or pruritus with the fact that the SNS is a public monopoly in the provision of health services and the pension system being a public monopoly in public pensions, the problem is yours, it is not from the left benches, because they are not reconciled with these two pillars of the Portuguese social state, pillars of Portuguese democracy since 25 April, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is someone here who has an ideological view in the wrong direction, because divorced from reality, it is PSD and CDS! [[PSD protests.]] They are systematically talking about the urgent need for reform — reform is needed, no reform has been made, the Socialist Party does not want to hear about reform. Mrs. in 2005, all diagnoses on the financial sustainability of social security pointed to the failure of the public pension system in Portugal. And, at that time, two different positions were confronted: one of them, led by Bagão Félix, at the time the minister of the PSD government / CDS, who defended the ceiling, i.e. the partial privatization of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u179	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u180	It's true, it's written in public documents. Bagão Félix, at the time supported by the PSD and the CDS, recognized the transition costs of the current system to a mixed, partially private system, and said that these high costs should be financed for public debt issuance for several years, the years in which the revenue of the system disappeared. [[PSD protests.]] at the end of the last legislature, they again presented this project, more timid, it is true, but still a partial privatization of the system, which would result in high wages coming out of the public system and no longer contributing to this system. Therefore, not only do they give a private response to social security problems, as they ignore that a public response has already been given by the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u181	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u182	...that, according to all international studies, has ensured the sustainability of the pension system, which you ignore in all interventions on social security. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) says so, the European Commission says so. All these institutions may even prefer ceiling systems, but they recognize that the reform that you pretend to have never existed has ensured the financial sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u184	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they do not like it, assume your ideological position against public social security and say that they prefer a partially private system, which directs the resources that today are public social security and the pensions of Portuguese workers for private financing systems. There is no problem in defending this, but they assume - and say that they disagree in the way that Portuguese democracy - and that these parties, the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens still defend - have found to organize these social protection systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u186	They assume, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't talk about imaginary crises that don't exist. The system today is more solid and has surpluses than with the Members. Members, they did not have, the system today can strengthen the social security stability fund, it can increase pensions — it can increase pensions, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! in the electoral programme presented by the PSD and the CDS in 2015, the freezing of pensions was maintained and partial privatization of the social security system was planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u188	With the rejection of this path, with the increase in quantity and quality of employment, this majority gave a complete response to the catastrophic and unfounded diagnoses that Mr. Deputies were defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u189	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u190	Today, we maintain public social security—and, as far as it depends on the Socialist Party, we will maintain public social security—we have more and better employment, we have surpluses and all the arguments that you have. Members may have to defend privatization or an imaginary crisis of the system, simply there are no. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to update your speech — that, yes! — sectarian and ideological on these matters, based on the reality that we live today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u191	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. João Galamba says that we have different ideological views — and, Mr. Member, we have, in fact, quite different views. But do you know what is one of the fundamental differences between our ideological views?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u193	It's just that ours works!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u194	It is that you decide which is your ideological vision, then you decide which are the ideological views of the others... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u195	...and, thirdly, it still comes to decide for each Portuguese what is best for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u196	We've returned to the ceiling and privatization!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u197	Your ideological vision is that you know better than all Portuguese who is the best system for them. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and the PSD MP Angel War.]] And here, in fact, our ideological vision is very different: yes, we believe in a public social security system, we believe in the need for sustainability of this public social security system, but we also believe that every Portuguese—especially every young Portuguese who is now beginning to contribute—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u198	Say first: every rich Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u199	... you have the right to choose, freely, what is best for you and what is best for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u200	Ah! They want the ceiling!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u201	It's clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u202	You call this privatization, I call this freedom, because that's what it is. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do you know what radical privatization is? This is what you and your party have been proposing to people in the election campaign: "Pay less TSU (unique social rate) now, receive more money at the end of the month and then have less pension. » That, yes, is radical privatization and electoral demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u204	Go tell the poor to make a saving plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u205	But returning to the CFP proposal, I think it has three fundamental problems. The first is a real problem, because you do not say what they are coming to: they call it 'funding sources' when, in fact, what they are doing is simply increasing the taxation of companies and the profits of companies. It's as simple as this! It is worth saying: «We will increase the IRC (tax on the income of the public) and we will assign part of the IRC's revenue to social security», because that is what they are proposing, above all. Secondly, the proposal also has a technical problem, because you say: "Let's tax the VAL" — and the VAL you're talking about is not the one you normally talk about, it's not the current net value, it's something called "net added value". Now, I've been looking for what is, after all, this net added value. Is it profit? It is not known, because you speak of a formula which will be provided for in Article 3 ( 2 ). Article 2 or. the initiative, but then we consult them and the formula does not exist. So you don't even know what this value is, but you agreed to explain what it is and what it means. in the initiative, the following is read: « The Tax and Customs Authority(...) proceeds to ascertain the net added value of each employer... » — it is not from each company, it is from each employer; therefore, the net added value is from the employer — «... and communicates this information(...) ». Well, I think, in order to know what it is, at least, they should explain what they want to tax. Thirdly, the proposal has a serious problem with reality, because the CFP imagines that Portugal is alone in the world and that increasing corporate taxation has no effect. I would like to finish by asking a few questions, which I think is worth meditating on. Where the workers live better, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u206	It is in Denmark, Sweden, Norway...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u207	Is it in the countries that most tax companies, in the countries that have less competitive economies, or is it in the countries where companies are less taxed and where economies are more competitive?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u208	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u209	I will finish, Mr. President. Where do workers get better? Is it in the countries where companies are most taxed or are they in the countries that grow and have more competitive economies? [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u210	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u211	Of course, Mr. President. I will end by leaving a challenge to the CFP: look well at the Czech Republic, where for many years your ideology has been applied. 20 years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u212	You have far exceeded the time you had, Mrs. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u213	... their GDP (gross domestic product) per capita was much lower than Portuguese, today it is higher. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u214	To close the debate, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we schedule this debate on the financing of social security, on the diversification and expansion of sources of social security financing, we do so with the exact notion of the importance this issue has for the future of the country and knowing exactly what we want. Our perspective is that the progress and development of the country is only made with the valorization of work and workers, with the enhancement of their rights, with a country in which social security is more financially sound in order to make the contribution it has to make to a fairer redistribution of wealth, with social security in order to ensure that further the path that has been made of defence, replacement and conquest of rights. We have presented this initiative with the notion that it is a decisive contribution for the future of the country and social security to be, in fact, this future of progress, development, social justice in the redistribution of wealth. As it has played a decisive role in all the positive measures that have been taken, the CFP continues to have a decisive role in the way in which these measures must be taken further and on the path that must be taken to strengthen the financing of social security so that this path continues. over these two and a half years, by action and intervention of the PCP, it was possible to achieve what many said was impossible. For some time, I even beat us alone for the extraordinary increase in pensions, which we were able to achieve for two consecutive years. We have succeeded in replacing the automatic updating of pensions, decisive steps for the appreciation of long-term contributions careers, as well as the expansion of the allocation of family allowance and, next month, we will take another step towards its enlargement to thousands of children and young people who, from 2010 onwards, have seen the value of the reduced family allowance. We have had a decisive role in creating and expanding an extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed people, increasing the unemployment allowance and eliminating the 10 % cut-off, which has persisted for years, in the thawing of the social support indexer (IAS), which has enabled a widespread increase in social benefits, in particular — in addition to the family allowance, which I have already referred to — the social income of insertion ( IRS) and the solidarity supplement for the elderly ( ISC), the third person assistance allowance. We have made a decisive contribution not only to the reduction, by half, of the value of the multi-use certificate of disability — an essential measure for people with disabilities — but also to the elimination of architectural barriers and the creation and re-evaluation of social benefits for inclusion, with the prospect of their enlargement and the resolution of problems that continue to persist, particularly with regard to the limits imposed on this provision. In many other areas, the role of the CFP has been decisive, without which it would not have been possible to advance towards the defence and conquest of rights and income. That is the way we want to continue, taking all the positive measures further, and here we are also contributing to the financing of social security — an essential element for this path to continue — whether it is also taken into account, too, that it should also be taken into account with proposals that should be considered in its entirety. The proposals presented by the CFP here, despite the attempts to fake it, are proposed to complement the current social security financing scheme. These proposals do not replace the financing made with contributions from the wages paid, but complement the financing of social security with the application of a net added value rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u217	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I miss her speech after years and years of discussing these proposals and the CFP, including having improved them. Mrs Deputy was already a Member when the PCP brought here for the first time a proposal based on gross added value...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u218	Still, I haven't figured out what he is yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u219	... and remember, certainly, that the discussion that was held at that time allowed us to improve our proposal and conclude that, from a technical point of view, the solution of net added value is more appropriate — a definition that is economic and technical, that is already in existence and that the honourable Member knows very well how to build — than that of gross added value.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u220	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u221	I would like to find a pretext for justifying the distance between the CDS and this proposal, but it is more valuable that I have said everything, Madam Member — it is more valuable that I have said everything! [[PCP applause.]] We know why the PSD and the CDS do not want to follow the proposal presented by the CFP: it is because they want to continue to use the discussion on the sustainability of social security as a pretext for cutting rights, to cut living conditions, to cut social support and benefits, which, moreover, was what they did whenever they were in government and whenever they had the opportunity to decide. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u222	Not at all! Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u223	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the policy of the PECs (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes), the policy of the Troika aggression pact, the whole role of cuts in wages, pensions, unemployment and sickness allowance, family allowance and the invitations to immigration brought to the country not the resolution of social security problems, but more serious problems to social security. If there is something that these last two years, with the replacement of these rights and incomes that have been cut off before, confirm that the way of defending social security is the path of the replacement of rights and incomes, because that is what allows the economic development and the collection of more contributions to social security, to the point where they already allow an overvital situation. What that means, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS are already defeated today in your thesis that the solution to the problems of the country is the worsening of exploitation and impoverishment. It is already demonstrated today that this is not the way, the way to do it is another. This proposal which the CFP brought here corresponds not only to these requirements, but also to the issues which will be raised today, as in the past, in relation to the structure and maintenance of social models, particularly social security, which we have. Questions such as the so-called " robotization" and the replacement of human labour by machines — these issues that are apparently posed today with a dramatization perspective — are also answered here, because these CFP proposals introduce this element of justice in the contribution to social security, not penalizing companies that employ more workers, but allowing companies with fewer workers and more profits to contribute in a more fair way to the financing of social security. [[PCP applause.]] It is, in all, a discussion of the future. And we realize that the PSD and the CDS only want to enter this debate when it is to discuss the cuts in rights, because, when it comes to discussing the defence of rights, when it comes to discussing solutions that allow the country's progress and development on the basis of the appreciation of the direct workers, pensioners, the unemployed, the children, the disabled, the PSD and the CDS to reject these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path to solving social security problems is not the one proposed by these two parties, namely the privatization of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u224	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u225	I conclude, Mr. President. All over the world we find dramatic examples of this, of workers whose reforms were concerned because years and years of contributions were broken down by the private management of private social security systems. To conclude, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that the proposals we made here are serious proposals and that they contribute in a structured way to solving the problems of financing social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u226	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u227	These are subjects that have been considered in the Joint Position which has been signed between the CFP and the Socialist Party and which should take such consideration and treatment with the contribution they make.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u229	To use Mr Galamba's expression, we will now be aware of what are the two sides on which this Chamber is divided.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u230	Otherwise...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u231	We know that we will be on the side of those who defend public, solidarity and universal social security as an instrument of progress and development of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u232	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u233	... as an instrument of equality in the distribution of wealth and in improving the living conditions of workers. Let us hope that the other parliamentary groups will follow these objectives. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u234	Mrs. Members, we therefore conclude the general discussion of Bill No. 809 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Expand the sources of social security financing from the CFP initiative, whose possible vote is scheduled for the second item of the agenda. So we will proceed, to what I ask of the services that prepare the electronic system for the verification of quorum. In the meantime, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to report the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u235	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the existence of public school workers as necessary and with the appropriate link for the start of the school year 2018 / 2019 ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1742 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the creation of additional vacancies in the 2018 medical boarding tender ( PCP ), which is down to 9. the Commission, 1743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Construction of a new hospital in Barcelos ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1744 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the application of the reduced rate of VAT to all services in agricultural production activities from 1 January 2018 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then check the quorum for discussion to proceed with the vote. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 200 presences—which are added to those of PS Deputies Luís Moreira Testa and Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues—for which 202 Members are present, so we have an overwhelming qualifier for the quorum. Let us therefore, in general, vote on Bill No. 809 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Expand sources of social security financing ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u239	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the initiative we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-28.u240	Your determination is recorded, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. on the agenda item 1 shall contain the appeal to the Government No 21 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On precariousness in the science and financing of higher education ( BE) ; in point two, without time allocated for debate, draft resolution No 1721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Evaluation of the report of the Government of Portugal in the European Union — 2017 (Commission on European Affairs) ; and finally, in point three, legislative votes. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 13 minutes.]]
