ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. of today's agenda are two points, the general debate of Bill No. 568 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Assistance to bathers (The Greens) and the statutory votes. To begin the debate and present your initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that, by the corridors of the Assembly of the Republic, some of us. Members of various parliamentary groups have spoken to me, expressing some wonder that the Greens have required the power of this project for today. I mean all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, after the intervention I will make, I hope you will understand the size and importance of the matter that the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens today bring the debate, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill which, in general terms, we call « assistance to bathers» and which, in particular, brings solutions to ensure greater security on the Portuguese beaches. Now, which opened the bathing season, it is an important time to reflect on the security conditions on our beaches, which fails and what is our responsibility to change to improve. Let us start with data that deserves our concern and that move us to act around more effective solutions. According to the drowning Observatory of the Portuguese Federation of Saviors, last year, at least 36 people died from drowning before the opening of the bathing season and therefore all in unwatched places. Concretely, data from the National Maritime Authority associate 18 deaths due to drowning to maritime beaches, from January to September last year. of these 18 deaths, 15 occurred on unwatched beaches and three on monitored beaches, two of which resulted in congestion and one heart attack. That is, in 2017, of the total drowning deaths on sea beaches, 83 % took place on unwatched beaches, or because the bathing season had not yet been opened, or because the beach concerned had no surveillance during the bathing season. Data from the drowning Observatory later revealed, by the end of December last year, that the total drowning deaths on unwatched beaches would have been in order of 89 %. In addition to these data, the Maritime Authority reveals that, in the bathing season of last year, the swimmers performed 434 rescue operations, first aided 649 people and searched for children 44 times. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these data clearly reveal that surveillance on the beaches saves lives. If surveillance on the beaches saves human lives, all that contributes to strengthening and extending this surveillance is a factor of security and demonstration of political responsibility. That is precisely the objective of the draft law which today the Greens Ecological Party brings to debate in Parliament. In good rigour, this is a matter that has been moving the Greens for many years. Let me make here a small framework of the legislative process over the years for our current starting point to be understood. With regard to a system of assistance to bathers dating back to 1959 and which was inadequate from that which was the need for safety of bathing areas—there was already a much higher frequency of bathing beaches compared to the 1950s—in 2003, considering the very high number of drowning deaths on Portuguese beaches, where only one week died seven people for drowning in the Costa de Caparica, The Greens presented to Parliament a bill starting from two findings. First, the bathing season is restricted, taking into account the frequency habits of the beaches by the populations; second, only the concessional beaches are monitored, thus the others are unprotected. Thus, in this Bill 2003, which was discussed in 2004, The Greens proposed that the bathing season be extended in two months, i.e. instead of starting on 1 June, it would begin on 1 April. More: The Greens proposed that the swimmers-saviators stop being hired by the beach dealers and become hired by the State. According to our proposal at the time, on the granted beaches, the respective concessionaire would pay the Maritime Authority a bathing service rate in order to contribute to the payment due to the swimmers-saviators of the respective beach, but the hiring of swimmers-saviators would be done by the State. This bill of The Greens was approved and it resulted in Law No. 44 / 2004, which took two changes. One of the changes was proposed through a project of the PSD and CDS, which kept the bathing season between June 1 and September 30, but allowed the municipal chambers to propose the extension of that period on the beaches of their respective municipality. The Greens' proposal to extend the bathing season to 1 April was therefore not accepted. The other change referred to the fact that the hiring of swimmers would become competitive with the state, thus closing the surveillance gaps on unlicensed beaches and on monitored beaches, establishing that the dealers would pay a fee to the State to cover the payment to the swimmers-saviators. It was therefore welcomed the proposal made by The Greens, which effectively altered the paradigm of the surveillance of the beaches in Portugal and guaranteed greater security for the bathers. What happened was that the PSD/CDS government then did not regulate the law and the PS government, which followed, had an unacceptable procedure, which was to have amended by decree a law unanimously passed in the Assembly of the Republic, restating, in respect of the hiring of swimmers-saviators, the previous regime concerned. In other words, this government has made everything remain in the same, as it has always been, and therefore only the granted beaches are monitored and the contracts are for dealers. Over the past few years, the Greens believe it is time to relaunch the debate and discuss new solutions. thus, we present two proposals in our bill. First, we propose that the minimum period of the bathing season be from 1 April to 30 September, because the Portuguese beach habits do not actually begin in June but early. We have nothing to oppose the fact that municipal chambers can continue to propose changes to the bathing season on the beaches of their municipality, but we cannot accept that they use this prerogative not to extend the deadlines but, first, to shorten them, with the aim of facilitating the charges of dealers and jeopardizing the safety of bathers. Secondly, we propose that the citizens who attend the beaches be aware of the dangers they may face in the event of taking risky behaviours, so the Greens Ecological Party proposes that the State ensure campaigns to raise citizens' awareness of these same dangers, whether they are at sea or on river and lake beaches. The truth is that there are several fronts where there is a need to act to combat risk positions and to develop a security culture. Thirdly, we propose that it be the State, through the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, to ensure the hiring of swimmers-saviators on the Portuguese beaches, and it is fair that the concessionaires ensure, through a fee, the value to be paid to swimmers-saviators — the costs they have to take today — and that even other economic agents benefiting from the beaches can contribute to this payment. thus, no excuse for State charges can be claimed to escape the responsibility of ensuring greater safety on the beaches. The bill of The Greens therefore provides for surveillance on the granted beaches and on the unlicensed beaches. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not worth keeping in mind that problems and weaknesses do not exist. Many people continue to die on our beaches in unwatched areas and times. It has been 15 years since the Greens first brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic. It is time for this Parliament to act with responsibility to ensure a culture of security on our beaches, which implies appropriate means and mechanisms. This is what the bill proposed by the Greens today brings the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u3	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Bureau registered, for requests for clarification, the inclusion of five Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u4	Mr President, I want to respond, firstly, jointly to three requests for clarification and, finally, to the last two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u5	You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr Rui Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome the Greens Ecological Party's initiative. We are here to debate and ensure the improvement of the conditions of our beaches, very important national heritage, fundamental pillar of our tourist strategy, support of the national economy. In agreement with the relevance of this bill, which focuses on the implementation of the presence of swimmers-saviators on unlicensed beaches and the extension of the period of operation, we also considered it important to reflect on what we want for the future of our beaches, aiming at a timely, effective and modern planning, as well as strict monitoring of bathing areas and the increase of measures that allow unlicensed beaches to become integrated into the national network of beaches with blue flag, which would immediately solve the problem of the absence of swimmers-saviers. For the PSD, this debate must be carried out upstream, valuing the role of local authorities, which have, in a self-evident way, guaranteed these conditions. No one knows better than local authorities what the bathing areas of excellence in their municipalities, the flows of bathers, the times when they run to their beaches and what infrastructures they need. We want swimmers-savers to ensure the safety of the bathers. We do not want to lose human lives, but we want adequate access, parking, sanitary and leisure facilities and all that is required for the existence of modern and attractive beaches. in this sense, we are open to a wide debate that includes local authorities, which promotes the implementation of more concessional beaches, with strict monitoring of the fulfilment of the competencies defined in the concession contract. We know that the granting of the private initiative is not in the best interests of the Greens. But did the Greens Ecologist Party count on the value that would result from the hiring of the swimmers-savadors necessary for the surveillance of unlicensed beaches? By now, the Greens Ecologist Party has conducted a study on how many beaches are not granted? It is that we have an extensive coast, with small bays of difficult access and sometimes so attractive for some less-warmed bathers. Will these also have swimmers? I put one more question, and this is so close to the Greens Ecological Party : what form of hiring these swimmers-saviators? Is it the green receipt? Will it be with the right term contract? What other way are they thinking? In view of the seasonality of the activity, it is important to know what they think, under the penalty of seeing the Greens not resist the temptation to make a crusade about the precarious employment of swimmers. These are the questions I would like to ask you, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to finish, and since we do not have the heights of time limitation, which draws an idyllic picture, engraved with gold in the collective memory of all Portuguese, well representative of our identity. The small disappointment of a fogy morning reflected in the eyes of a child walking toward the beach. Suddenly, the vision of a huge blue ball, with inscriptions of the only sunscreen brand that existed, renews the promise of a magnificent day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u7	They don't even have anything else to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u8	The rays of the sun arise, first shy, then bold, tear and dissipate the fog, the first toys in the sand, the parrots flying directed by the cord of the chair, away echo the prayers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u9	That, accompanied by the rape, was much better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u10	... appeal to the fruit of a Berlin ball, to the fresh taste of a fruit or chocolate ice cream and to the so crisp mother-in-law language. Finally, the encounter with the salt sea, so genuinely Portuguese, sung by Camões and Pessoa, impregnated with our history, of the heroic facts of a people of navigators, who gave the world new horizons and new cultures, which shaded in the Lusitanian epic with the great universal epics of Homero to Virgílio, from Jonathan Swift to Fenimore Cooper. It is in this tradition and modernity that PSD sees our beaches, not forgetting our memories, our identity, but with the eyes set in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u11	To request clarification, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u12	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would first and foremost like to congratulate you and the Greens Parliamentary Group on the schedule of this debate on assistance to bathists. Just a few days after the bathing season has begun in general of the river beaches, sea beaches or of any other nature, in our country, this debate has, of course, the merit of drawing attention to, alerting the visitors of these same beaches to all precautions, to all the care they should have, given the number of claims that have occurred over the past few years, in a way that would not say constantly but which, unfortunately, have been registered in our country. The draft law that The Greens bring to this debate from the PS point of view has three fundamental dimensions: the first dimension is precisely related to the actions of awareness and prevention, which already exist, from our point of view, but which is always important to consider and reflect, in order to contribute to a thorough clarification of all bathers as to the dangers associated with the use and use, from the perspective of leisure, of our beaches. The second dimension has to do with the enlargement of the bathing season and, on this matter, I think it is important to clarify this House and the Portuguese, in general, of the following: the bathing season results from a joint order of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of the Environment, through a portal, which is accompanied by a large set of notes and technical indications that allow a variable geometry already exists with respect to the bathing season of each of the beaches, even having examples of municipalities—because the dialogue that is underlying the publication of this portal also involves municipalities—which have already extended their bathing season. Therefore, without wanting to disregard or devalue the proposal, we consider that the current legal order already provides, to some extent, one of the faculties of the bill that the Greens Ecological Party brings today to the Assembly of the Republic. A final fundamental dimension has to do with the hiring of swimmers-savadors on the so-called "licensed" beaches, because in fact in Portugal there are no concessional beaches but rather, bar concessions. And on this question, Mrs Deputies, I would like to ask you the following question: does Mrs Heloísa Apolónia not understand that with this bill there is a real paradigm change in a model which, from our point of view, has been relatively effective and has produced some results? And this paradigm change is not too abrupt, since it would become the state, according to the interpreter of the bill, through the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, to make the hiring of swimmers-saviators, when, in fact, the ISN already makes a sort of regulation of this contracting mechanism that is made through the dealers? Oh, my God! Therefore, on this last dimension, which has to do with the hiring of swimmers by the state, we believe that it causes a very profound paradigm change which I think must be better thought about, according to what I had the opportunity to transmit. Finally, I leave you with a second, also very brief question, which has to do with the financial charges associated with a whore or possible approval of the bill that the Green Party presents. And what I would like to ask you is whether you have an idea, an estimate of the costs that would become a charge of the State and the central administration of the State, if the Greens' proposal were approved in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u13	To ask for clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we want to appreciate the draft law submitted by the Greens Ecological Party and to say that there is indeed an imbalance, a gap between the model of assistance to bathers and the concrete reality that we live in our country, since there are several problems that need to be solved and there are too many deaths so that Parliament does not pronounce itself. In the face of an argument, either from the PSD bench or from the PS bench, regarding the costs that would result for the state of the state of swimmers-saviators hired by the state on unlicensed beaches, I dare say that the deaths are much more expensive than effectively hiring swimmers-saviators. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The draft law of the Green Party addresses three fundamental problems: first, the extension of a mandatory fixation of the bathing season, which I think adjusted; second, that it is essential that we deal with the awareness and training of Portuguese people for the issues of danger and risk behaviour on the beaches; third, that of the unlicensed beaches we have civil protection, because civil protection cannot be confined only to the beaches which are granted and the rest of the country does not have it. And this can be achieved in different ways, from then on to a state joint, protocoled, for example, with firefighters in our country, who can provide this service on unlicensed beaches.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u16	Therefore, there are many solutions that can indeed be found. The question that I would like to leave, Mrs Deputies, is the following: agreeing on the need to address this problem and having your bill our favourable vote, so that it effectively goes down to the committee and we address other problems that are not addressed in the project, I ask you whether or not, the Ecological Party 'The Greens', which is also necessary to rethink the model of civil protection of the granted beaches. This is because, today, on the granted beaches, only dealers pay civil protection, swimmers-saviators, when there is a multiplicity of economic agents who have a direct benefit by the existence of a concessional, monitored beach, and who pay absolutely nothing for civil protection, namely hotels, large surfaces, finally, several economic agents who benefit from the activity of the beach. There are councils, for example, where doubles or triples the population and only dealers pay the swimmers-saviators. You understand or not, Mrs Deputy, that we must also reflect on this matter, in order to find a form of the multiplicity of economic agents, effectively, contribute so that civil protection can act on our beaches. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u17	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Members of the PSD, PS and PCP raised the issues and considerations they raised. I would like to say that, in fact, I assume in my speech that the Green Bill effectively aims at a paradigm shift. I have no doubt about that. I only disagree with Mr. João Torres about one thing: it is that he constantly states that the current model is effective and I believe that the current model is not effective and that there are ways of improving — indeed, that is what we are proposing to the Assembly of the Republic — so that we have fewer deaths on our beaches. This is the central objective of the bill that The Greens now present. The numbers are very clear: outside the bathing season there are more deaths on our beaches, which are not monitored, because we are not within the bathing season; within the bathing season, on the beaches that are not monitored, i.e. on those that are not granted, there are more deaths than on the granted beaches. And the numbers reveal this to us with such clarity that the conclusion can only be one: if we strengthen surveillance on our beaches and extend this surveillance we will have greater effectiveness in fighting, let us say, to those deaths on our beaches, which are still quite large. That's what should move us. On the other hand, I would like to say the following: we do not question the fact that the municipal chambers can have a word to say on the matter of the bathing season — of course, we consider it to be positive — but in the logic of enlargement rather than shortening the bathing season. What we understand is that, given the habits of the Portuguese currently, the fixed period of the bathing season should not begin on 1 June but, rather, on 1 April and from there, enlargement would always be possible. Now, there's a question. For example, the PSD says a solution that seems very practical but is not effective, which is to say: "We solve this problem in a very clear and very fast way: we grant more beaches". Yes, Mr, but there are beaches that will not be granted and maintain-CL will always be the same problem. There are beaches that are frequented but will not be granted, then, in Mr. Deputy's logic, they will have no swimmer-sailant and therefore will not have the security that is due to ensure the visitors of this beach. On the other hand, there is a central issue which is put in several interventions and which has to do with the costs for the State or the financing model that could be adopted. Mr Machado mentioned here, and very well, that the brutal cost to society is that of the deaths that occur on the beaches because there is no surveillance or that surveillance could prevent, and this is a fact that we must take into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u19	That's a brick!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u20	No, sir! You know why? Firefighters also cost the state anything, don't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u21	That's a brick!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u22	And civil protection also costs the state, but you don't question it. Why does surveillance in the beaches be called into question? Is it hard for the state to give anything else? I think that the security of the population actually has the costs to ensure and we have to take on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u23	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u24	But in addition, what we propose is the following: in relation to the granted beaches, we do not propose to rule out, if I may say so, the payment concessionaires. What we say is that the contracting authority is the Maritime Authority, the Maritime Authority ensures that the contracting authority, by paying a fee on the part of the concessionaires, will ensure that this payment is secured. Therefore, in practical terms, at the level of the Green Bill, this would not take much more cost to the State. And the honourable Member says to me: "All right, and on unlicensed beaches? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is true, indeed, Mr. Jorge Machado also referred here to an issue with which I agree and which I consider very important, which is to realize that economic agents effectively benefit from the dynamics of a particular beach so that they can also contribute to the payment of the surveillance of that beach. I think this is entirely fair! It must not only be the dealers of the beach bars to contribute, but also all the economic agents who actually benefit from the dynamics of these beaches. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the great advantage of this bill that The Greens, today, bring here to the Assembly of the Republic, is to open a debate which was numbed, which was sleeping. The Greens agree with this Parliament on this issue. We are therefore available to bring the bill down to committee, without a vote, so that all Members and all Members. Members are engaged in the discussion and improvement of the model to safeguard the safety of populations. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u25	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would also like to thank the Greens for bringing the debate, for their assistance to bathers. In fact, in our country, during the bathing season, the number of deaths due to drowning continues to be very high and there are other victims who remain, even with sequelae for life. Therefore, there are quite extensive cases concerning this matter and many of these victims are even children and young people. In fact, the Banhista Assistance Scheme is still inadequate and has even returned during PS and PSD governments. The bathing season has not taken into account the climate changes, no doubt, and that are a very real observation, the seasons of the year have ceased to correspond, in climatic terms, to the established time scales—see, for example, the extreme temperatures that fattened in the country, in the autumn of last year, and that largely were responsible for the tragedies that we all know, and certainly there were many people who were still bathing in the Algarve and even on other beaches of the country, at that time. In fact, existing legislation needs to be amended. It is necessary for this House, the Assembly of the Republic, to take into account that the reality is different and the Block of the Left generally shares the concerns presented here by the Greens. I recall that Law No 44/2004 defined, for example, competition for the government through its regional bodies, the hiring of swimmers-saviators for the bathing season and also that dealers would have to collaborate with the various entities for the safety of bathers and charge their fees; that, on unlicensed beaches, the Government would be responsible for information, surveillance, rescue and rescue; and that, on the concessional beaches, the bathing season would be established considering the climatic conditions and other characteristics, as recently said. It happens that the governments that followed did not regulate this Law and in many cases the Law even returned to previous aspects. in this particular case, who was lost was the country, the families, finally, were the people—and there were many cases of deaths due to drowning. Many of the drowning deaths, as I said, occur outside the bathing season and on beaches where there is no surveillance or assistance to bathers, so it is really important to take some positive steps in this matter. The question that I would like to ask the honourable Member is this: in view of what he is presenting, i.e. to extend the period of surveillance and assistance to bathers from 1 April, could it not be considered that the same was established beyond the time limits of 30 September? We know some cameras already do, but not all of them are very few. Could you not consider extending this limit until October 31, considering that for years in the Algarve and other areas of the country, during this month, the temperatures are still inviting to go to the baths? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u27	To request clarification, Mr. João Rebelo of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u28	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much for the presentation of this project. I would like to say that I think this is a very important subject and I would like to remind you, because I know that the Greens Ecological Party, since it has only two Members, is not present in the Defense Commission, that we discussed this issue a few months ago in the Commission, for other reasons that had to do with the type of professional link, that would have the swimmers, that they should have and who would give it. In fact, we have the habit of discussing these matters in the Defense Commission, not only because of this project. Secondly, I begin by referring to a question which Mr Vasconcelos asked. in the last 10 years, the month of April has been always colder and rainier than the month of October, according to the data I have read. In fact, it is an amendment to be tabled. In fact, there has always been the tradition of saying—and it is right—to be—in April a thousand waters. In fact, in the last decade, it has always been that way. But let's remember the month of October last year, an even warmer month than usual, which led to those fires' misfortunes. If this model is supported with the tradition of The Greens projects that, from 15 years to here, refer to April 1, we should not even think, perhaps, of an increase in the bathing season more for October than for April? Then I think that asking for information on which financing model and how important it is is. We all put forward proposals and we need to know the cost they have. I understand my colleagues' questions, because we have to warn that this has costs, objectively. We're talking about how many beaches they don't have surveillance? I've already consulted the available data and the number varies many times. Are we talking only about beaches? As Mr Jorge Machado and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, the number of victims and deaths occurring on unvisited beaches includes not only maritime beaches, but also river beaches, lakes, etc. So what are we talking about? We are talking about the protection of all these areas, of sea beaches, of river beaches, etc. Is that what you're talking about? in that case we're already talking about a lot. The draft law also does not refer to something which, to me, is essential — perhaps, Mrs Deputies thinks so, but did not write, considering that this was not the area — which is the following: we can have 10 beach guards, but, if some people continue with irresponsible behaviors, it is very difficult to guarantee protection. Training in schools on this issue is essential, in my opinion. For example: why not teach in the technical schools of salvation? I know how to do this because I studied in Belgium and we learned how to breathe in mouth, assisted breathing, etc. It was normal no. 7. the year to do it. Why don't you think about it? This is because there are risky behaviors. I would like to end by referring to the question of data, since the data we have on the number of victims... I give you an example that is also extreme: last year, the two people who, unfortunately, were hit by a plane that landed emergency on the beach were counted as victims. We also have to protect people who have heart attacks on the beach, but does that have to do with the fact that the beaches are not protected? We must therefore better analyze the data. I think you need better protection, that's why you're right. We must make it available. I suggested in particular discussions with the honourable Member that the project should go down to the Commission without a vote because, as he is, I could not vote in favour, even if it deserved a debate. The Defence Commission has the tradition of seeking consensus. It has done so recently with regard to a proposal from the CFP on the EMFAR ( Statute of the Military Armed Forces ) which has come down to the Commission, without a vote, and is not what the CFP wanted, however, approved by consensus a set of amendments. I think that's important. Costs are essential. at present, the Maritime Authority does not have the means to comply with its request for a number of reasons, including financial and human resources. Mr. Jorge Machado knows why we've been alerted to that. Finally, I find it very important what has been said: on the surveillance of the beaches, we have to increase the number of taxpayers, not only the dealers—and this proposal is good, it is acceptable—but also all the other economic dynamics that are around, like hotels, etc. The authorities are certainly interested in helping, but when we have adopted the amendment at the Defence Commission, so that the municipal pools, as well as those of the hotels, etc. , were watched, i.e., that they had a swimmer-sparing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u29	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u30	I will finish, Mr. President. when we adopted the amendment in the Defence Committee, the truth is that the answer was very critical, because, they said, they had no means and it was a very high expenditure they had to do. We must therefore also always take the financial issue into account. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u31	You have the floor to answer the two gentlemen. Members, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u32	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block and the CDS-PP the considerations and questions they have raised. In particular, on the extension of the fixed period, let us say, of the bathing season, that the Greens propose that it be from 1 April to 30 September. Members, The Greens are fully prepared to discuss appropriate deadlines for the enlargement of this period. What moved us to pull, let's say, the beginning of the bathing season on April 1 was the most undeniable frequency of the beaches, or at least the beginning, by the Portuguese, for example, during Easter vacation periods, where there is already a great influx on the various beaches of our country. In order to cover this greater influx, we considered it to be an appropriate deadline. But it is clear that we are willing, in the field of expertise, to discuss concretely the greater adequacy of the deadline of a fixed bathing season, without repeating what I said recently, to disregard or question, even the hypothesis of the municipal chambers, according to the concrete reality of their municipality, may suggest the extension of the deadline for the bathing season. We are also concerned about the issue of individual behavior and safety that each person must also have a self-protection logic. This was an issue that the Greens also brought as a proposal for forest fires. It is important to create this culture of self-protection, because our individual protection is also the protection of the collective, as is evident. So society has everything to gain from it. that the Greens, in their project, present a concrete proposal regarding the need for training, awareness raising of citizens to avoid risk behaviors and an effective safety culture. There is one thing that concerns us, Mr Rebel: the lack of data made available to the citizens — I put the matter that way. You're absolutely right about that. For example, if we really want to know the death data on the Portuguese beaches in 2018, it is not easy to access them because they are not available. With regard to the provision of data, as you well said, I agree that the causes of deaths on the beaches are even discriminated against, since some of them are not for drowning, but here we are talking in particular about drowning deaths. It is important that these data be made available so that, through them, which must be rigorous, we can also evaluate situations in the best way to create the best solutions. Therefore, the matter of lack of data, in our perspective, is important. With regard to the lack of means, the lack of staff, the lack of training, therefore, Mr President, if we do not begin now, by three to four years we have exactly the same argument. I think it is very important that this discussion can be done now in committee, that we can hear entities, that we can improve the text and discuss, to reflect on the best solution to create a more robust model for the central objective of The Greens: to generate greater security in our territory, on our beaches, on the most diverse aspects. The Greens have brought here, for example, the issue of the pressure that has been made on our coast that generates the fragility of our uppers, particularly as regards erosion processes, which have concrete problems and promote the insecurity of the people, in particular on our beaches. As we have had this intervention, we have brought another aspect of security intervention on our beaches, which has to do with the matter of assistance to bathers and the presence of swimmers-saviators. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u33	Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Green Party decided to schedule for today a legislative debate on its bill No 568 / XIII ( 2. a ), which seeks to introduce a set of amendments with regard to assistance to bathers during the bathing season with a view to reducing the number of fatal occurrences on the Portuguese beaches. when presenting this legislative initiative The Greens aim, on the one hand, to amend Law No. 44 / 2004 of 19 August, amended by Decree-Law No. 100 / 2005 of 3 June, to, in the context of the fulfilment of the guarantee of assistance, be assigned to the Ministry of National Defence, through the National Maritime Authority, the competence to hire swimmers-saviators for the unlicensed beaches. at the same time, the Greens propose that the Ministry of National Defence, together with the Ministry of the Environment, should be able, through the Portuguese Environment Agency, to programme awareness and information actions for bathers so that it is possible, in its own words, "to build a safety culture on the beaches". On the other hand, The Greens also want to amend Decree-Law No 135 / 2009 of 3 June, republished by Decree-Law No 113 / 2012 of 23 May, so that in cases where there is no definition of the bathing season of a bathing water it will run from 1 April to 30 September of each year, anticipating its start in two months. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It should be remembered that in the present case, the concessionaires and the associations of swimmers who are responsible for the hiring of swimmers are granted in the bathrooms. Already on unlicensed bathing beaches it is for the authorities in accordance with Article 9. the Portaria n.o 311 / 2015, of 28 September, in conjunction with the administration authorities of the water domain, promotes compliance with the service device to bathers for the bathing season. It should also be noted that, according to the data provided by the Director of the Institute of Relief for Shipyards at a press conference given before the opening of the bathing season, Portugal will have this year 640 beaches, including rivers, approved for bathing practice. Thus there will be 387 beaches with quality bathrooms on the coast of the continent, 129 river beaches and 70 and 54 on the islands of the Azores and Madeira, respectively. To protect all bathers who will race to these beaches, we will have this year about 5200 swimmers-savadors certified by the Institute of Naufragos Relief. The question that arises in this case is simple: will these swimmers be sufficient to carry out the mission assigned to them, to minimize the occurrence of deaths on our beaches? The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party hopes and sincerely wishes that, but the answer to this question will always depend on the perspective by which we look at this issue, that is, we will always face a situation of half a cup or half an empty cup. For some, the means will always be insufficient and the ideal solution would be to have, in permanence, surveillance on the beaches and assistance to the bathers who use them. For others, the means will be sufficient and the current legislation is already perfectly suited to Portuguese reality, and the emphasis must be placed on developing a security culture by bathers to prevent risk situations. For the PSD, the path should always aim at achieving a balanced solution that will prevent as many occurrences as possible on the beaches, making the available resources as profitable as possible and creating synergies between the various entities that can contribute to this. For example, we are talking about the promotion of partnerships between swimmers' associations, municipal chambers, beach dealers and the Naufragos Relief Institute, which allow them to have teams on the ground when they are necessary, in particular, where climate conditions are favourable to a greater influx of people to the beaches. The rigidity of the deadlines or periods previously defined makes less sense in the face of the climate changes we have been observing, which cause heat phenomena in times that do not correspond to those defined in the law and which eventually cause the citizens to go to the beaches when the sea does not have conditions conducive to its use, while there is no surveillance on the beaches. Nevertheless, we do not, in principle, oppose the Greens' proposal for a two-month extension of the bathing season in cases where there is no definition of the bathing season, to the extent that this can actually contribute to increasing the safety of bathers on these beaches. in this chapter of the safety on the beaches, it is more than fair to mention that the Portuguese Navy, through its body of fugitives, has already developed for several years a surveillance program on the unlicensed beaches, then, unwatched, in support of the National Maritime Authority, operating additional means of the Institute of Relief to Ships that are assigned to the captains scattered by the country. This is a model that has already proved to be quite efficient and which ensures increased safety at points 2800 km from the Portuguese coast which are generally not the target of the presence of swimmers-savadors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year, according to data released by the press, 26 people have already died on Portuguese beaches, and we are still at the beginning of June. Twelve of these deaths occurred between the months of May and June and five even before the month of May. This truly black and tragic balance already points to an increase of seven deaths in relation to the same period last year, which has already left us extremely concerned. If we look at 2017, we see that between May 1 and September 14, according to official numbers, 20 people died on the beaches of the coast and on the river beaches of the country. Three people lost their lives on watched beaches, six on unattended beaches and two on monitored river beaches, having not been recorded any deaths on unwatched river beaches. Again, these numbers are tragic, very worrying and worse, because this is a value greater than the 14 deaths that occurred in the same period of 2016 and that exceeds the 17 deaths that occurred in total that year. All these tragic numbers raise two important questions to us: what reasons do they contribute to this significant increase in the number of deaths on the Portuguese beaches and what might be failing on the surveillance and security device on our beaches? These questions are even more relevant when, once again, we see the announcement of an increase in the number of the beaches granted, an increase in the number of swimmers and a strengthening of the means used in surveillance on the Portuguese beaches. at the same time it seems very strange and, above all, worrying that, since we are already in the middle of the bathing season, the Technical Commission for Water Safety has not promoted, as in previous years, any preparation meeting of the bathing season for 2018. It is a situation that we regret and that we consider very serious, because, as we have seen in recent years, numbers relating to deaths on the Portuguese beaches have unfortunately been increasing. Deaths on our beaches, whether they are maritime or river, are something that worries us all a lot and motivates us always to do more and better to avoid them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that the proposals presented here today by the Greens Ecological Party deserve to be further in-depth in order to assess their real impact and their acceptance by the various stakeholders in this area. At first sight these seem to be positive proposals that can contribute to increasing safety on the Portuguese beaches. We therefore find it appropriate to carry out some studies, as well as hearing of all the actors involved in the assistance of bathers, in particular the Government, the Navy, the municipal chambers, the parish councils, the swimmers and the beach dealers. thus, we could move forward to more comprehensive and current legislation regarding the safety of bathers on our beaches. We also defend that there should be greater investment in prevention by promoting campaigns to raise citizens' awareness in schools, for example, by prompting children to develop a culture of safety in the use of our beaches. This should be the main way forward, because by many human and material means we can allocate, if there is not the collaboration of all those who run to the Portuguese beaches, whether sea or river, the accidents will continue to increase. The PSD is available to work with all the political forces in Parliament to create more appropriate legislation that will actually help to increase the safety of all those who attend our beaches. Taking into the famous Portuguese saying that "better to prevent than to remedy" is therefore in our hands working even more and, above all, creating all the conditions for the bathers to be safer on the Portuguese beaches. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u37	Mr Luís Graça, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say my first words to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who is the author of the legislative initiative. The Greens are consistent in this kind of initiatives related to surveillance on the beaches and the safety of bathers, which is not, in fact, a minor issue, and, being I understand, here I would like to express that surveillance and safety on the beaches are of economic importance, very relevant to the Algarve. There is no doubt that any effort we make to raise awareness of the users and strengthen the safety of the beaches is a good investment for the country, is a good investment for the bathing areas. Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel spoke of the number of deaths that occurred last year: 20 deaths. These are also the data I have, but it is good not to dramatize these numbers and explain that a significant part of these deaths — which are always tragic deaths, even more so when they occur in a beach, in a leisure and play area — are not for drowning, but for other reasons. Allow me to give just the example of the Algarve. in the Algarve, we have more than 500 beach concessions and we mobilize more than 700 swimmers-savadors. The effort that is required in this bill, which has the kindness to make us look at the safety of bathers, I don't know if it would be even feasible to put it into operation tomorrow. Of course, because today in the Algarve region — I do not know what it is in the other places — there is a very great effort on the part of the dealers, not always in agreement, for the hiring of swimmers-saviators. That is, it is often postponed the opening of the concession due to the inability to find swimmers-saviators. Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel referred to a set of partnerships that could be found to finance this model and I would like to stress that this seems to me to be a good effort and this is a good opportunity — in fact, the CDS Member also did so — to look at this problem of having only the concessionaires and the municipalities to guarantee the effort of hiring swimmers-saviators. In fact, the PCP Member opened here a new area of discussion which, I think, deserves to be heard and then discussed: the beach today has a series of business around it, such as concessions, but not only the water sports schools, but also the hotels behind that beach. It is an economic universe that should be seen to finance security on the beaches. And maybe after we make this effort to look at this new financial model we can see if it is possible to increase the number of vigilantes on the beaches without fixed concessions. But, Mr. Luis Pedro Pimentel, I wonder if you think the legal model that exists today is not fulfilling your purposes. That is, we have a model today that does not prohibit any municipal chamber extending the beach period, let's say so. the knowledge I have, the truth is that only two municipalities, Cascais and Albufeira, have the habit of increasing the bathing season. So there is, let us say, an urgent need to increase this period by tomorrow. I am a generation in which a great awareness campaign was made by the Institute of Reliefs to Shipwrecks, which was: "There is sea and sea, there will be going back and forth" and what I think is this Law provides exactly that, which there is different sea. The sea of the Algarve is necessarily different from the north sea of the country, the beach of Quarteira is very different from the beach of Moledo, the temperatures in the country are also different and, therefore, I think it is advantageous for each municipality to manage its bathing season taking into account the characteristics of each area, of each geographical area. in the Algarve, it may make sense to have a more extended bathing season in periods in the north of the country in others. The country's not the same. I believe that the Law that exists today allows this differentiated look at the various realities of the country, although, and I say again, this initiative is useful to look at the strengthening of security in the bathing areas and the model of financing this security. It is a good opportunity, but I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you think this model, which gives the cameras this discretionary ability to look at their reality, is bad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u39	You have the floor to answer, Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u40	Mr President, Mr Luís Graça, of course I think it is relevant that this matter has come to plenary and has now been discussed. On whether or not this Law is up to date, I think it will not be out of date, but I think that, like what happened last year, with the major fires, the State cannot be permanently deresponsibly deresponsibly and pass everything on to local authorities. In my speech, I said that, before we can legislate anything else on this matter, it is very important that some studies can be conducted and that more entities are heard here, especially the Government, the Navy, the municipal chambers, the parish councils, the swimmers themselves and the dealers of the beaches. But I think that there is still much to be done about this. Today, Portugal has a large percentage of its value in gross domestic product in tourism, and I therefore believe that it is also time to sit down and try to reach a consensus. I know, from what I realized, that the Greens Ecological Party itself is available to apply for discharge to the committee, without a vote, of this bill, for discussion in the specialty. I therefore believe that it is in committee that we can discuss this matter and try to reach a maximum consensus, especially on a law which, on some points, may already be out of date. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u41	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome today's agenda proposed by the Greens Ecological Party for the merit which it represents of bringing to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic a debate on the guarantees of assistance which the country provides to the bathers, then a relevant debate. Long is the century in which Ramalho Ortigão wrote the work The Beaches of Portugal : Guide of the Banhista and the Traveler. from the 19th century to the 20th and 21st centuries, it was evolving and completely transformed the form and concept of going to the beach, of enjoying the beach as a public space and proximity. Factors such as the evolution of mentalities on the body, the right to vacation, the expansion of national and international tourism and the development of nautical and beach sports democratized the beaches of Portugal and returned their use to enhance the sun, water and leisure, transforming the beach into a daily space for citizens and families, who today represent millions of bathers. The safety requirements on the beaches also evolved naturally. And today there is greater demand, either for the means made available by the State and by the concessionaires of beaches for assistance to bathers and rescue, or for the incorporation of safe and civic behaviors responsible by the bathists themselves. Admitting improvements, the current model of assistance to bathers has worked without major failures and with relative effectiveness. This is by comparison with other countries in southern Europe, where the assistance to bathers is supported by tourist rates or by coastal trade, as in Portugal it is by the concessionaires of the beaches that provide public service for the responsibility they have in the safety and surveillance of bathing areas, either because with the model in force today we have relatively low signs of weakness on the beaches monitored during the bathing season, and even the unattended beaches, i.e., which, due to the lack of granting of rescue swimmers and inherent equipment, are actually subject to non-permanent surveillance through resources of the National Maritime Authority, to try to avoid maximum any tragedies. During the bathing season, in 2018, outside the fixed device of the Institute of Naufragos (ISN ), there is a reinforcement of means, composed of 26 military with the course of swim-salver, 26 Amarok cars, 11 4x4 motorcycles and 3 marine rescue motorcycles prepared to act with incidence on unwatched beaches. The Greens Ecological Party, in its bill, proposes that the National Maritime Authority take on the direct hiring of swimmers-savadors on unwatched beaches. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not support this claim. First, because, today, the National Maritime Authority, through the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, is, in fact, the entity that regulates and supervises the assistance to bathers, either in defining the general conditions of safety, rescue and assistance on the beaches, or in training and certification of the courses of swimmers-saviators, soon it does not seem sensible to us that it is also a contracting entity. And then, because we don't know the quantitative reality of human resources in new certified swimmers-savators that this amendment would raise and the overall financial impact of the measure. But as a contribution to an ongoing debate here in the Assembly of the Republic, that of the decentralization of the competences of the central State to the authorities, I recall that the proposed law of the Government proposes in its Article 18. paragraph 1 (c), the transfer of the guarantee of assistance to bathers to the municipal sphere, which, with greater knowledge of the real needs of its maritime, river or lake beaches, can better manage and adapt the reality of resources to affect the safety of beaches and bathers, with direct benefits for citizens. The Green Party project also states that the law requires the State to promote awareness-raising and information actions for bathers, reinforcing the culture of safety on the beaches. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not see an imperative need for the law to supplant reality in this area, although it does not, of course, claim it harmful. It is already a current and conscious mission of the National Maritime Authority, from the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, to carry out these awareness-raising actions, is part of the DNA of these institutions, which have played them constantly. The Institute of Naufragos Relief has promoted and conducted in recent years, often combined with recognised institutional partners, systematic actions aimed at making the basic safety recommendations fully public to bathers. But sensitization is not done just for the immediate plan and for the present time. It must be cultivated for the future, side by side with the prevention of possible risk behaviors. therefore that it is very relevant for the PS Parliamentary Group to welcome the Maritime Citizenship programme, of the initiative of the Maritime Police and that it has the collaboration of other entities of the National Maritime Authority, where once again stands out, the Institute of Relief to Ships, a project that since 2016 is in operation and execution increasingly comprehensive and diversified from year to year. This program includes awareness-raising and adult training actions, but focuses mainly on the universe of children and young people, and aims to improve the culture and maritime safety values by seeking to instill responsible attitudes that promote and seek to promote a safe environment on the beaches, coastal areas and surrounding environment, as spaces for nautical and leisure activities. This is a national-scale programme, which has been developed in cooperation with groups of schools, associations of firefighters, clubs, authorities and non-profit associations, and from 2016 until today this effort to promote maritime citizenship has already interacted with thousands of young citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by reaffirming that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not hesitate to participate in this debate in a more continuous and in-depth manner, and we consider that the absolute value of the security of bathists is not degraded today. however, it is always possible to reflect and improve the current model and, undoubtedly, to debate its future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u43	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rebel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, assistance to bathers is a serious issue – we agree with that. If I ask here if any of us, at least once in life, went to a beach, they'll probably all answer that yes, that they were. Therefore, the frequency of the beaches, the river beaches, the lakes, the rivers, from what is, by the Portuguese and Portuguese is massive. Therefore, the safety of these spaces needs to be discussed in the plenary, it deserves this dignity and credibility, agreeing with the honourable Member when she says that this matter deserves this importance. It should be noted that millions of Portuguese go to these beaches and that millions of tourists come to Portugal to frequent them. The CDS is aware of its past, which honours us very much, Mrs. Member, with regard to updating and improving legislation in this area. Until the beginning of the 21st century, more precisely in 2004, the legislation regulating assistance to bathers was Decree No. 42 305 of 5 June 1959, with the amendments introduced in 1969. Now, as it is easily understood, this legislation was inadequate, outdated and outdated and did not safeguard the public interests to be protected. It was in this sense that through two draft laws — one of the PSD / CDS and another of the Greens — the Assembly of the Republic unanimously created Law No 44 / 2004 in the run-up of the PSD / CDS Government, which defines the legal regime of assistance in locations for bathists. This Law, which is still the basis of the legislation that regulates this activity, is very proud of having had the CDS as one of its co-authors. But our pro-activity in this matter did not remain here. at the end of 2013, the PSD/CDS coalition government approved a bill that subsequently submitted to Parliament on the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory. We cannot ignore that this law arose following the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 78 / 2010 of 30 June by which it was recommended to the Government to develop an integrated strategy of prevention and security for activities carried out on the beaches, swimming pools and water fun enclosures, and a multidisciplinary working group was established for the design of the integrated strategy for the prevention and safety of these same activities. By framework principles, this law came to define new categories of professional swimmers-saviators, having as guidance the well-known development of the activities of assistance to bathers to which we are attending in our country. It has also set up a framework of rights and duties perfected, also making provision for functional specifications for each category and conditions under which the same activity should be carried out. All of these developments, which have a common appearance, happened when the CDS was in government with the PSD and incorporated that same parliamentary majority. They were duly weighted, duly studied and duly calculated. It was not ignored that we are facing an interministerial area, because only an integrated view involving the various guardianships present — Ministry of Education, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Internal Administration and Ministry of Health — is that it can guarantee the success of this activity. This common view must exist forever. It was necessary — and it continues to be — that all stakeholders should be heard, that all parties should be consulted and that all contributions should be collected so as not to fall into the mistake of « leaving the amendment worse than the sonnet». Turning now to the analysis of the draft law of the Green Party, I must say that it presents, as soon as it begins, a certain dissociation between the reality it craves and the reality of who, on the ground, will have to develop the proposed hour, if it is approved. Has the Green Party spoken to the National Maritime Authority on this issue? Did you collect your information? Is the Greens Ecological Party concerned about the need for an interaction between the Institute of Shipwreck Relief, the training bodies and the economic agents themselves? Did you understand the Green Party for the proposals it proposes, which could and should be an important partner of the municipalities, through the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias )? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, too, we cannot legislate in a hurry without rigour and without being alerted to all the effects of the proposed amendments. And although in this case only two articles have been amended, these to be approved will have a very important impact, in financial and human terms, on the model which is currently in force. We therefore believe that we should discuss this matter in the field of expertise, not voting in general on this bill, because to be voted on, as I have already passed on to the honourable Member, we would not agree with it. But if we put this bill down, without a vote, to the committee responsible, we should study it, examine it, and, as all the honourable Members have said. Members, we will thus have the opportunity to listen to the National Maritime Authority, the Institute for the Relief of Shipwrecks, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the ANAFRE, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education—and the hearing of the Ministry of Education has to do with part of what Mrs. All these entities should be heard and should take into account what they say. I would also like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because this debate has an important visibility, that the model that exists certainly has its failures, but it is a positive model. Security on the beaches that are currently under surveillance is guaranteed. This effort was made by the National Maritime Authority, by the municipal chambers, by the government, finally by all the entities involved. Therefore, we must also convey the message that, at the moment, on the beaches under surveillance, conditions are guaranteed for people to benefit from everything that the beaches, the river beaches, the rivers, etc. , they can give Portuguese, Portuguese and tourists - this is preserved. This message must be given, not to pass another idea that is wrong. We warn that in others, who are without surveillance, there is a need to ensure a minimum of safety and people must avoid risk behaviors. On the project under discussion, it may be a bad reading of me, but it seems to me that there is a delay, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia: in the transposition of the legislation, paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9... It seems to me to be a lapse and not an option, because the option would have the following impact: by the way the proposal is written, outside the bathing season, the dealers who wanted to perform their activity, namely bars, etc. — and we are talking about bars which, in spite of everything, work on the beaches outside this period, they could not do so, and they can do so right now. Therefore, probably, in the transposition of legislation there was a lapse that should be corrected in the field of specialty. We would like to point out that funding is always very important — and it seems to me that there has been an evolution in the speech of the honourable Member following the intervention of several Members, particularly Mr Machado. We must seek a model of sharing this expenditure, because it is very important. It was said here by Mr Pedro Pimentel that we are talking about 700 beaches approved for bathing practice this year and, with this proposal, we can reach 1200 throughout the country, so it is a very important word. Changes in terms of discounts and remuneration and the impact of such expenditure on social security — in 2004 gave more rights to swimmers themselves — also add expenditure. Therefore, all of this should be properly guarded so as not to create a weight. But back to the initial question I mentioned: the current model is a model that, despite everything, works. Can it be improved? Yes, ma'am! Can we change the size of the bathing season? Of course! Can we multiply funding sources? Certainly! Can we fight the risks as much as possible, and the impossible is when people have risky behaviors, and there is the fault of them, objectively, and not of the system that is mounted? We can study this, but we must realize that the model that is currently in force is a model that has proven to have some good results and that is much better than what was in force in the past, when unfortunately many more deaths were recorded on our beaches. I am going back to saying what I said in my initial speech, and that it was worth the agreement of the honourable Members. Members: the data on the dead and the wounded—which sometimes also exist in these situations—are not clear, as they do at present. It would be necessary to create a system that would allow all information to be concentrated, delimiting the number of fatal victims, where they occurred and why, as well as any people who have been injured, to ensure solutions, as Mrs Deputy said. There may be parts of the country that are more vulnerable, others that are less vulnerable. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members—and I apologize, because in 18 seconds I have already exceeded the time I had, in addition to the one I was given by the PSD, and I thank — saying that that the idea that the Maritime Authority and the State have no expense with the safety of the beach is a mistake and is false, because the device of the Maritime Police always exists in this period and is of the State, the device of the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) exists and is of the State, hospitals are prepared to accommodate more people during the bathing season—especially the hospitals of the Algarve — and are of the State. Therefore, I would also like to point out that the State is not, with this model that exists, "to shake the water from the hood" as to its responsibilities or to place total safeguard on the dealers. Don't! The device is maintained, the Air Force and the Navy themselves also have devices mounted in these bathing season periods. I would therefore like to conclude by referring to this because there are hundreds of people who work to ensure security, so they deserve our respect and are mentioned here in particular. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u45	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the final intervention of this debate by the CFP Parliamentary Group, we wanted to value this draft law of the Green Party. In fact, he put on the table the discussion of a subject which, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, was relatively sleepy and which raises several concerns. In fact, the interventions of all parliamentary committees have pointed to a number of problems which must be taken into account. The draft law of the Greens Ecological Party addresses the problem of the enlargement of the bathing season and the issues of sensitisation of unlicensed bathers and beaches. For the PCP Parliamentary Group it is clear that these unlicensed beaches also need protection and relief and therefore cannot be excluded from the scope of what is civil protection and relief in our country. Then there are other problems that need to be addressed, and we have the willingness to do so in Parliamentary committee. There is a need to think about protection outside the bathing season, because we have the problem of concessional beaches and unlicensed beaches during the bathing season and outside the bathing season. Of course, outside the bathing season, the demands and human resources that need to be allocated to protection and relief will necessarily be lower, because we have less influx of bathers, but this is a problem that also arises in our country. in our opinion, there is an urgent need to rethink the financing model, which has been approached by several parliamentary groups, and to diversify those which are the sources of funding for this civil protection and relief system, in particular through the contribution of other economic actors, essentially at the bathing time, in which, of course, the effort is more increased and therefore there will be a need for strengthening the frameworks. There is a problem that needs to be solved and that has been addressed by the CDS-PP bench, in the person of Mr. João Rebelo, which concerns the formation of swimmers-savadors. The PSD/CDS-PP government has led to a privatization of the training of swimmers-saviators, and the Institute of Shipyard Relief has ceased to contribute to the training. The privatization of this training has turned out to be completely disastrous and has created very serious problems of the lack of swimmers-saviers in our country. It was therefore necessary, in effect, for the Institute of Naufragos to recover what is its competence in the formation of the tables of swimmers-saviators. We have a fundamental problem, which I assume may not be discussed under this bill, but which we want to keep in mind, which is the truly absurd situation of a matter of civil protection and relief being being discussed within the Committee on National Defence and the Ministry of National Defence. It makes no sense that this matter continues to fall within the competence of the Ministry of Defence. This is a matter of civil protection and relief, not of national defence, and it makes no sense to be in either the National Defence Commission or the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u48	We understand that in the main 'throwed stone' it is necessary to start a hearing process, which will have to be carried out in the National Defence Commission, depending on the circumstances we have today in view of the government's competence framework and those with that same competence. There is a lot of matters to be addressed here, and we need to listen to several entities in this regard: we must listen to the associations of swimmers, we must hear the associations representative of the dealers, who also have a word to say, we must listen to the volunteer firefighters in our country, who can play a decisive role, since they can have in their swimmers-savers tables to help on the beaches, whether they are granted or not, particularly outside the bathing season — outside of the time, none of them will be granted — and enable the surveillance of the beaches and, of course, we must also listen to the Association of Municipalities on this matter. We know that the government, in what is the so-called « decentralisation », but which basically means « to shake the water from the hood » and « to shake the responsibilities of the government to the municipalities, has the prospect of transferring this same competence. We need to hear a set of entities so that this process progresses, with the conviction that it will have no effect in this bathing season, but in the near future. We are convinced that there is indeed a lot of space for a deep discussion on these issues of civil protection and relief and that, in fact, the assistance to bathers in our country will be improved. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u49	Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the bathing season and outside it, many victims continue to be registered in the country for drowning on unwatched beaches and even on monitored beaches, particularly where surveillance and assistance to bathers are not observed. The numbers are still being dramatic. Only this year are 40 deaths due to drowning, much in the sea and on unattended beaches, and the bathing season has not yet begun. Only in the first 11 months of 2017, the drowning Observatory, created by the Portuguese Federation of Nadadores Salvadores, accounted for 112 fatalities in aquatic means, such as beaches, swimming pools and dams. Between January and September alone, there were 96 deaths due to drowning, 16 of which were women and 80 of the male. in 2016, from May 1 to September 30, 17 people were drowned, close to half on unwatched beaches, with 605 interventions by swimmers-savadors on concessional beaches, 712 interventions on unlicensed beaches covered by integrated systems and 1032 first aid assistance, according to data from the National Maritime Authority. It is during the holiday months that some outside the summer periods have more deaths of children and young children, especially by drowning. in Europe, according to data from the World Health Organization, 500 children and young people die every year up to 19 years for this reason. In Portugal, 215 minors died between 2002 and 2014. But it's not just the deaths that worry. in the last 13 years, 512 children were hospitalized following drownings, which often involves neurological sequelae or motors that accompany them for life outside. A part belongs to Portugal, unfortunately, and occurs outside the bathing period and on unwatched beaches, as you said. They are quite heavy numbers that have brought suffering and mourning to many families in this country. Public authorities, particularly the PSD/CDS governments and even the PS, have not acted in this regard as they compete with them. If they had done so, this serious problem would certainly have been minimized. The system of assistance to bathers remains very inadequate and it is urgent to overcome certain constraints, taking into account the climate change that has occurred in recent years. It is a reality the warming of the planet and our country has suffered a lot with these changes. It is necessary to extend the bathing season and not restrict it only in the months of June to September, in a general way. On the other hand, surveillance and assistance to bathers must be considered by means of the hiring of swimmers under the responsibility of the State. Law No 44 / 2004, which introduced a number of positive amendments and which should have been regulated by the PSD / CDS government at the time was not. The Socrates Government, which did not comply with its rules, went even further, disresponsibility of the State with regard to the hiring of swimmers and returning everything to private dealers during the bathing season. The PSD/CDS government of the troika's times has also done nothing, in fact, liberalized and deregulated the security of the bathers even more. The PS and PSD/CDS governments always argued with financial costs, they said that the country did not bear, that the troika prevented—and even now they continue with these justifications—but they were not ashamed or ashamed to create and feed PPPs (public-private partnerships), swaps and private banks with many hundreds and billions. After all, for these unrecommendable entities, which have sucked and robbed the country, there was already and there is still a lot of money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u51	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that municipal chambers can anticipate or prolong the bathing season, this is not enough, because very few do so, even taking into account the inviting bathing temperatures in April, May and October. For the Left Block, it seems appropriate to open the bathing season from 1 April and to extend, as recently spoken and as the Left Block showed, until 31 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u53	For many swimmers-saviators it would be more than two or three months of work on the concessional beaches, for many others it would mean having work on unlicensed beaches, provided the State assumed this responsibility through the Institute of Naufragos Relief or other administrative entities, and people would be more protected on the beaches in terms of surveillance and assistance. A good and effective safety for bathers who demand our beaches, with and without concessions, only with the use of more swimmers-savers and improving their working conditions. There have already been some significant improvements, particularly in combating precariousness in this area, no longer being an activity and becoming a profession, starting in 2016. last year, considering that a significant part of the swimmers-saviators are students, was even approved a left block bill that began to establish access to the educational rights of these same swimmers-saviators. It was imperative to reconcile the two activities without prejudice to surveillance and relief on the beaches and to students themselves. The practice of swimmer-saviator proved to be incompatible with the absence of a special time of exams in all courses and in all academic years. In fact, a right was enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. Thus, the swimmers-savadors were guaranteed access to the moments of evaluation with justification of shortcomings, on an equal footing with the other workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u55	Some associations and dealers complain about the lack of swimmers-saviors. however, the National Maritime Authority says that there are sufficient swimmers-savators. The big problem lies in their training and even in their wages, which are still low. The prices of the training courses, which ran around 150 €, shot to more than 300 € per course with the entry of private schools into training. It should be the state to assume itself as the main entity forming swimmers-saviators, through the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, as it still happened in a recent past and still happens today in the autonomous regions. Another problem has to do with the fact that it is only almost exclusively for dealers to hire swimmers. These private dealers have other priorities, they leave to the end the hiring of swimmers-saviators and what happens next is that most have already chosen other locations, leaving other places with serious difficulties for their hiring. Through a legislative amendment to the Regulation on the activity of Nadador-Salvador, which took place last year and which was approved unanimously, here, in this House, can also contract the associations of swimmers-saviators and humanitarian associations of firemen, although on the beaches of granted bathrooms. For the Left Block, municipal chambers may also have that responsibility, since the process of transferring decentralization powers is now under discussion, and this is also the proposal of the Government. What the Block does not accept is the transfer of competences, which will ultimately be the municipalization of universal services, such as education and health, which will lead to the degradation and privatization of these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u56	You would like to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u57	In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that if the management of coastal areas is approved by the authorities, this is indeed a positive step to take and surely death by drowning on the beaches of the country will be reduced. The Left Block is also prepared to make its contribution to the bill presented here by The Greens, and the other parliamentary groups have also expressed this agreement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u58	You have the floor, also for one speech, Mr. João Castro, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by complimenting the Green Party on the agenda of the topic of assistance to bathers in Portugal as well as on the presentation of a legislative initiative on the subject. thus, it raises, and well, the reflection on the safety conditions in bathing areas, in seeking answers to this question, with particular concern for drowning deaths, alerting to the need to find solutions that can prevent or prevent them. in this context, it presents three concrete measures: on the one hand, that is the Ministry of Defence, through the National Maritime Authority, to hire swimmers-savadors for the beaches not granted ; on the other hand, that the Ministry of Defence, through the National Maritime Authority, and the Ministry of the Environment, through the Portuguese Environment Agency, schedule awareness-raising and information actions aimed at building a culture of safety on the beaches ; on the other hand, in the absence of definition of the bathing season, that it takes place in the period from 1 April to 30 September each year. Now, according to public data, 2018 will be a year of positive evolution in the assistance to bathists. Portugal will have about 640 beaches approved for bathing activity: 387 on the coast of the continent, 129 on the interior, 70 on the Azores and 54 on Madeira, i.e. more 99 than in 2017. There will be more 504 certified swimmers-savadors, through 23 courses conducted for a total of 352 of these professionals and 152 requalifications. The bathing season will start on May 1st, running until October 15th. Several actions are under way to raise awareness of the authorities, the concessionaires and the population. The rules should be complied with and users of bathing areas should be duly informed of existing safety conditions for use. We share with great attention the concern expressed and will contribute to the evaluation of the proposed measures, in particular in relation to their effectiveness, in the face of the objectives intended, such as the development of the action of the Institute of Relief to Ships, integrated in the structure of the Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority, with technical leadership tasks for the areas of maritime rescue, disaster relief and assistance to bathers, which has competence as to study and propose changes to the procedures of a technical nature, with regard to the provision of services with a view to maritime rescue, assistance to shipwrecks and assistance to bathers; promoting information on the activity of marine rescue and assistance to bathers or even promoting the information necessary to prevent accidents at the beaches. According to data from the National Maritime Authority, for the 2400 Km of the coast, 20 losses were recorded on the sea and river beaches in 2017, being 10 per drowning and 10 for other causes, such as congestion, thermal shock, fall or heart attack. The drowning Observatory of the Portuguese Federation of Saviors ( FEPONS ), between 1 January and 30 September 2017, reports nine drownings on sea beach and one on river beach, registering in other contexts 90% of the occurrences that would not be covered by this initiative. Part of the assumption that it would be more efficient for direct contracting by the State, surveillance on the Portuguese beaches, which is not insured, and could mean more costs, probably incomportable. It is true that, despite the work done, awareness and prevention can always be improved. It is obviously worth our concordance to pursue this objective, especially in actions that affect the care and the need for adequate use of bathing areas, without forgetting that the risk of drowning also relates to the competences of adequacy to the aquatic environment, by placing in training, especially in schools, the need for greater intervention on this subject. In summary, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that this initiative should be deepened, in line with the proposed proposal, highlighting the work of the swimmers, of the different bodies and professionals who often risk their own lives to save others, sharing the principle that we should do everything in order to improve the conditions for the exercise of their function. We also believe that it should involve different experts, bringing a technical approach to such a process, and that the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira should also be heard ; We therefore welcome the Greens Ecological Party for once again putting the matter on the table, leaving the challenge for us to be able to act on it in the possession of adequate information, which allows us not only to intervene but also to intervene effectively. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u60	Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal reached, in 2018, a record of bathing areas, with 608 beaches, more seven than last year. last June 1, 190 beaches began their bathing season, joining 49. There are many thousands of people, Portuguese and foreign citizens, who, throughout the year, and especially in summertime, use our beaches. According to data from the drowning Observatory, a structure created by the Portuguese Federation of swimmers-Salvadors, in the first half of 2017, died 69 people drowned in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 69 people lost their lives on the Portuguese beaches. Almost half of these drownings occurred in the sea and one in four cases were recorded in river areas. The largest number of cases occurred in the Porto district, followed by Faro and Lisbon. It is also found that mortality on our maritime coast during the extra bathing period is quite high and not to increase. In view of this data, we must not fail to consider this to be an extremely important issue. It is therefore important to ensure better safety conditions for all national citizens and tourists themselves; it is important to take appropriate measures to ensure that there is assistance and information on the Portuguese beaches; it is important to prevent, inform, monitor and assist, in an appropriate and effective manner, all citizens attending our coast. The fact that accidents happen every year on our beaches, which victimize countless bathers, imposes concrete responses by the competent authorities. But it is clear that the success of the measures that the law determines depends heavily on the collaboration and civic awareness of the citizens themselves. Only in this way can we guarantee full and complete security on our beaches. There is no doubt that the existence of education actions on water safety, at a theoretical and practical level, is fundamental. in this field, I want to make a reference to the Junior Swallowing-Salvator Program. In 2017, the Junior Swallowing Program included more than 500 young people, covering children and young people from 14 to 17 years of age, with multiple activities developed, including physical and health condition practices, first aid, rescue and self-save techniques, adaptation to the aquatic environment, recognition of the environment and contact with rescue equipment, among others. Another example that deserves our recognition is the « Surf Salva » project, an initiative that promotes the interaction between swimmers-saviators, surfers and all other practitioners of nautical activities, highlighting the importance of teamwork for safety on Portuguese beaches. The importance of this project is that it enables swimmers and water sports practitioners, such as surfing, to experience in a real scenario the use of additional means such as marine rescue motorcycles, motorcycles 4, lifeboats and rescue boards. of the responsibility of the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks of Lidl Portugal, the « Surf Salva », pioneer in Europe, offers access to awareness-raising and training actions in water rescue and basic life support, with the aim of helping to reduce the number of drownings. in its 2016 edition, the project included more than 3200 surfers and bathers and, for this year, the expectation is that the number will grow, with more and more people participating in the events that will take place between April and September. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all regret the human losses that happen accidentally at times that are supposed to be leisure and fun. The PSD Parliamentary Group has always been attentive to this situation, as has already been demonstrated in the past, in particular with the presentation of more than one legislative initiative, even unanimously adopted in this Parliament. We continue, of course, to be careful and available to make our contribution, in order to achieve the safety of our beaches, the safety of all its users. however, we must not fail to question the fact that the Greens Ecological Party is discussing this in a power debate. This is an important theme, a current theme, a theme that concerns all of us, of course, but the Greens could have used this power debate to discuss many other important topics as well. Mrs Deputies, I am a stranger who did not choose the subject—and could have done so—of the teachers and the counting of the time of service, but he did not choose. It has ceased to be a concern for the Greens, of course. [[Green Protests.]] He could have chosen the issue of the situation of nurses, but he did not choose. It has ceased to be a concern for the Greens. I could have chosen the serious situation our hospitals are facing, but you haven't chosen. It has ceased to be a concern for the Greens. We also find it strange that they have not chosen, for example, the issue of the situation of EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company) or the railways in Portugal. It is also no longer a concern for the Greens. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the choice of the Greens did not fall on any of the issues I just listed, perhaps because they would be embarrassing debates, debates that bothered the current government, which has the support of the Greens. With this power debate, we have all been informed about the real priorities of the Greens. In addition to the PCP crutch we all knew, they became the lifeline for the current government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u62	As much as they could have regulated, they didn't regulate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u63	To close this debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have to make a previous comment on what Mr. Joel Sá said here, in order to say that I can offer you a Rules of Procedure, because nowhere is it said that whoever chooses the themes scheduled by the parties is the PPD, and much less Mr. Joel Sá. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]] The parties are still free to choose the themes they want for scheduling. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time that the Greens bring to debate the problem of assistance to bathers. That is why, in this discussion, it is appropriate to make a historical summary of this proposal, even to understand what is really at stake. 15 years ago, during the IX Legislature, The Greens presented, for discussion, a legislative initiative proposing to change the legal framework that was then in force. We are talking about a regime that was coming from 1959 and which, too, was totally inadequate in the face of the safety needs of the bathing areas, in a reality of a high frequency of bathing beaches. Moreover, the obsolete nature of this legislative framework is very visible with the set of serious situations on our beaches, with various accidents and drowning deaths. The Greens then considered it necessary to find answers and from the legislative point of view. In addition, the two major concerns of The Greens in presenting this bill were, on the one hand, the fact that the bathing season was designed for a very limited duration, considering the frequent habits of the beaches by the citizens, and, on the other hand, the fact that many effectively frequented beaches were not monitored, since only the dealers had the presence of swimmers, whose hiring was under the responsibility of the dealers. It was precisely to respond to these concerns that The Greens proposed that the bathing season be extended for two months, i.e., instead of starting on 1 June, it would begin on 1 April, given that it is months that take many people to attend the beaches, from the very beginning because, as a rule, the time that becomes felt in that period already becomes inviting to this practice, but also because people like to enjoy the first days of the sun, after months and months of winter. But, in addition to the enlargement of the bathing season, The Greens also proposed that the swimmers-savadors should no longer be hired by the concessionaires of the beaches and be hired by the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks, which is dependent on the Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority. However, this proposal carried a very important element with regard to people's safety, since, in this way, unlicensed beaches would not be without surveillance. However, this data is also important, so that on the beaches granted the respective concessionaire would pay the Maritime Authority a bathing service rate in order to contribute to the payment due to the swimmers-saviators of the respective beach. This initiative of The Greens, which would rise to plenary, for discussion in January 2004, together with another draft law of the PSD and the CDS, and after intense work in the specialty, ended up being unanimously approved, resulting in Law No 44 / 2004. For this reason, and because the PSD also presented, at the time, a draft law, therefore also recognized the obsolete character of the previous regime, we fail to understand the position of Mr Rui Silva, of the PSD, expressed in form, I would say, poor and impedive in the comments that involved the question that he posed to The Greens and that, moreover, he was diverting from all the interventions of all the other benches, except his departure partner. It follows that, clearly disrespecting the Assembly of the Republic, the Law has never been regulated by the PSD / CDS government, and the Government that followed the PS, instead of regulating the law, as was its obligation, came to say that while the diploma was not regulated, it was necessary for the dealers to resume the obligation to hire the swimmers-saviators quickly by releasing the State from that obligation. The government, deresponsiblying itself, thus arranged a pretext to wash hands like Pilate or to put his head in the sand, saying « it is nothing with me». In fact, we all realize that the government of that time never shared with the Law that the Assembly of the Republic had approved. But it was also clear that this aversion to the diploma was not so much in the opportunity and justice of the Law but, rather, in the inability of the Government to assume duties with the hiring of swimmers-savadors, the question which, unfortunately, placed before the greater and more effective security of the bathers. In other words, the Government, instead of regulating the Law which the Assembly of the Republic had unanimously approved, as it competed with it—in accordance with the principles and rules guiding a State of democratic law and in accordance with the separation of powers—has adopted Decree-Law No 100/2005, which virtually represented a return to the previous regime, except to assign to the municipal chambers the ability to anticipate or prolong the bathing season. What's more, it's all the same. Now, in the face of this real doll, everything went like it did. In fact, this government attitude then reminds the citizen that before a sign of a ban to park, instead of looking elsewhere to park his car, solve the problem by removing the traffic sign of prohibition and then park comfortably and legally. So did the government back then. It happens that these files, which we can finally recognize as containing a substantial dose of a certain type-expertism, are not acceptable. They are not acceptable from citizens, but much less from a government that wants to be democratic and therefore respecting the rules and principles of a democratic rule of law and also respecting the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic. In view of all these maneuvers, what happens is that today the fixation regime of the bathing season is practically stipulated as it was before the approval of Law No 44 / 2004. Now, all these years, and taking into account the number of deaths that continue to occur on the Portuguese beaches, especially outside the bathing season and therefore on beaches where there is no surveillance and assistance to bathers, The Greens consider it time to relaunch the debate and seek more appropriate solutions. Thus, taking into account the normal weather conditions that Portugal usually knows in the different months of the year, The Greens consider that the bathing season should even be anticipated throughout the national territory for 1 April, and that the regime in force, which allows the authorities to determine the extension of the bathing season in their territorial constituency, should be maintained, but the minimum mandatory period of the bathing season should indeed be extended. In addition to this minimum period which can be extended, it is crucial that citizens who go to the beaches are aware of dangers that may run in the event of taking risk behaviors. in this sense, the Greens Ecological Party proposes that the State ensure campaigns to raise citizens' awareness of these same dangers, whether they are at sea or on river beaches. In addition to these questions, what the Greens Ecological Party considers to be elementary stems from the impossibility of continuing to tolerate that the fact that a beach has no concessionaires is reason not to be monitored. This is, for us, a central issue. in this sense, on unlicensed beaches but effectively attended by bathers, the state must even assume this responsibility to guarantee security to citizens and, consequently, hire swimmers-saviers to proceed to the assistance of the bathists. This is what has been discussed today, on a proposal from the Greens, by the choice of the Greens, and not by any third interest, and the Greens now hope that the remaining parliamentary banks will maintain the availability and consistency to amend the legal regime relating to assistance to bathers, as happened to the discussion around Law No 44/2004, because the reasons and the grounds remain as at that time, despite the opinion that the two Members of Parliament have. PSD Members are living in the other world. Finally, Mr President, and as has already been mentioned, the Greens are going to bring down to the Commission the bill without a vote so that, in the field of specialty, they can accept the suggestions that today, with a constructive sense, have been brought by various parliamentary boards, notably by Mr. João Rebelo, of the CDS-PP, and by Mr. Jorge Machado, of the CFP. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the voting period, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the file, which is now shorter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 136 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, and its regulations, and the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, which falls to 10. the Commission, and the projects of lein.o 911 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and replaces the legal age of reform at the age of 65 ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 912 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Draft resolutions Nos 1682/ XIII ( 3 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1683 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in the requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation and operation by the Government of a centralized programme for the recovery of second dwellings in the municipalities affected by the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission with connection to 11. a, and 1685 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends support to the Government for wine growers and other farmers affected by weather in the Douro region ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed with the quorum verification using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 195 meetings, to which 4 are added, of the Members Ana Rita Bessa ( CDS-PP ), Duarte Pacheco ( PS ), Sandra Pontedeira ( PS ) and Wanda Guimarães ( PS ), making a total of 199 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 557 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Frank Carlucci, presented by the PSD, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u68	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Frank Carlucci, former Ambassador of the United States of America in Portugal in the years following April 25, 1974, died last Sunday, June 3, at 87 years. In recognition of its relevant services to Portugal, in the country and abroad, Frank Carlucci was thanked on November 24, 2003 with Grand Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. During the years when he was an American ambassador to Lisbon ( 1975 - 1978 ), Frank Carlucci was one of the great promoters of closer relations between Portugal and the United States of America. He maintained a relationship of great strategic proximity to then Prime Minister Mário Soares as well as other political-party forces in support of the establishment of a democratic regime in Portugal. Frank Carlucci was born on October 18, 1930 and actively participated in American political life throughout four administrations. After being ambassador to Lisbon, he was Vice-Director of the CIA, between 1978 and 1981, National Security Counsellor, between 1986 and 1987, and Secretary of Defence, between 1987 and 1989. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its public regret at the death of Frank Carlucci and presents to his family, to the Government and to the American people the most sincere condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and The Greens and abstains from the PAN and the members of PS Alexandre Quintanilla, João Galamba, Jorge Gomes, Margarida Marques, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Porfirio Silva, Santinho Pacheco and Wanda Guimarães.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 558/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Despite the death of the American ambassador Frank Carlucci, presented by the CDS-PP, who will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u70	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 3, American Ambassador Frank Charles Carlucci. Born in 1930, he served for more than two decades at the highest levels of the U.S. Administration and worked under the aegis of four distinct presidencies, having been appointed Secretary of State for Defence, between 1987 and 1989. Diplomata of career, represented successively, over 12 years, between 1956 and 1968, the United States in Pretoria, Leopoldville (currently Quinxassa), Zanzibar and Brasília. Only in 1975 would the US diplomat be appointed to lead the diplomatic mission in Lisbon, his last position, whose mandate would be inexorably marked by his political intervention in favour of the democratic forces against the PREC, during the ‘ hot summer’ of that year, and in the political and strategic approach between the two States. Of all the moments of Frank Carlucci's career is at the forefront of the post in Lisbon which would prove to be politically more decisive. Firm in the idea that the process of transition and democratic consolidation was not lost, contrary to the opinion of members of the American Administration itself, Carlucci fought for the restoration of the normality of the democratic process in Portugal, alongside the main political protagonists of resistance, Mário Soares, of whom he was a personal friend, Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral. The persistence with which Carlucci beat himself was worth the decoration by the Portuguese State with the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique and the Medal of National Defence. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Ambassador Frank Carlucci, who expresses his condolences to his family and friends, recalls his political intervention in the democratic consolidation of the regime».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and The Greens and abstains from the PAN and the members of PS Alexandre Quintanilla, João Galamba, Jorge Gomes, Margarida Marques, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Porfirio Silva, Santinho Pacheco and Wanda Guimarães.]] We turn to vote No 559 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Frank Carlucci, presented by the PS, who will be read by the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u72	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last June 3, Frank Charles Carlucci III died at 87 years of age at his home in the State of Virginia in the United States of America. Frank Carlucci, a career diplomat, served as Secretary of State for Defence of the United States of America between 1987 and 1989, during the presidency of Ronald Reagan, who served as National Defence Counsellor and Deputy Director of the CIA. Years before being appointed to the position of Secretary of State of Reagan, he was appointed Ambassador of the United States of America in Lisbon, during the presidency of Gerald Ford, between 1975 and 1978. As head of American diplomacy in Lisbon, and in the middle of the Cold War, Carlucci played an important role in the process of democratic transition, for which he valued his unquestionable diplomatic qualities and personal proximity with Mário Soares, as well as the bonds of friendship he created in the country. In 2003, he was decorated with the Great Cross of the Order of the Child D. Henrique by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio and, in 2005, again decorated with the Medal of National Defence, awarded by the Minister of Defense, Paulo Portas. With his death, he lost a personality that was relevant in the consolidation of Portuguese democracy. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, signs the death of Frank Carlucci, transmitting to the Government of the United States of America, his family and friends his sense of regret».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u73	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and The Greens and abstentions of the NAP and of the Members of PS Jorge Gomes and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u74	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u75	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u76	It is to announce that I shall immediately deliver a statement of vote on these three votes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u77	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote: No 560 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — In spite of the deaths in shipwreck at the Mediterranean Sea, presented by the President of RA, PSD, PS, PCP, The Greens, PAN and BE, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Mois Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u78	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the last week, the Mediterranean Sea was once again the cemetery of dozens of immigrants who tried to cross. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, more than 110 immigrants lost their lives in which the institution designated a massacre. Immigrants left the coasts of Turkey and Tunisia, on merchant ships, which had many children among the passengers. ‘ This weekend, in just a few hours, more than 110 people died in the Mediterranean. We cannot maintain silence as these massacres continue in the sea’, said the President of the Red Cross, Francesco Rocca. As the summer approaches, it is feared that these situations will be repeated, which makes it even more urgent to respond to this scourge. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its dismay and sadness at the death of more than 110 people in the Mediterranean Sea and reiterates the need to respond to this humanitarian drama that has taken thousands of lives at the entry of Europe ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira. We shall vote for the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1662 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) : — Movement of the President of the Republic to Moscow, the Russian Federation and Washington DC, USA ( President of RA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us vote on draft deliberation No 19 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, it is important now to vote for a request, submitted by The Greens, requesting the discharge of the National Defence Commission, without a vote, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 568 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Assistance to bathers ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1472/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to correct the results of the competition for arts support, to strengthen its financing and to revise its support model ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Mrs. Members, the project is down to 12. the Commission. Let us now vote, as a general rule, on draft resolution No 1488/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — urgent measures for strengthening and correcting the financing of the arts under the competitions of the Directorate-General for Arts ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Mrs. Members, this project is also down to 12. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1600 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the immediate beginning of the process of revision of the model of support for the arts, effectively linked with the agents of the sector ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is also down to 12. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1113 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — for safety in rail traffic ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1211 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the state laboratory staff framework and the strengthening of research and development funding funds associated with innovation in the agri-food and forestry sectors ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u80	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u81	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u82	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on the draft resolution that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u83	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the suspension of deadlines for the new Urban Rent Scheme and for lay-off procedures ( BE) and 854 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes an extraordinary and transitional regime for the protection of elderly or disabled persons who have been leased and resided on the same site for more than 15 years ( PS ). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With regard to the same replacement text, we shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u84	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u85	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u86	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u87	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u88	Mr President, I would also like to say that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on these last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u89	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolutions Nos 1394 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the construction process of the new Algarve prison establishment ( PCP ) and 1604 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to the new prison establishment of the Algarve Region ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The overall final vote of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on draft resolutions Nos 1251 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of EN124, located in the municipalities of Silves and Portimão ( BE ) and 1544 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify EN124 between Silves and Porto de Lagos ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u90	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u91	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u92	Mr President, I would like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the last vote because of the extemporaneousness of the initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u93	Mr President, you will make a written statement of vote, will you not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u94	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u95	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. It is also important to appreciate and vote on two opinions of the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, that Mr Duarte Pacheco will give us an account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Diplomatic and Consular General Inspection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Special Disciplinary Investigation Process No 65 - 2017, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Cesario ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the procedure under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Organic Unit of the Mirandela Administrative and Prosecutor's Court, Case No 365 / 13.4BEMDL, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Silvano ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having finished our work today, I inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place on 14 June, Thursday, at 3 p.m., with the debate of the appeal to the Government No 20/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On justice ( PSD ). I wish everyone a good weekend and good parliamentary days to the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-06.u101	The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
