ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we get on the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos to read the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the proposals of lein. 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Local Finance Act, which falls to 11. the Commission, 132 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new Industrial Property Code, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2015 / 2436 and ( EU ) 2016 / 943, which falls to 6. the Commission, 133 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of young associations, which falls to 12. the Commission, and 134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 recalibrating the full production of effects of the Budget Framework Act, which falls to 5. the Commission. Bill No. 879 / XIII ( 3 ) was added to the Bureau. ( a ) — Determines the abolition of bull races in Portugal ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1615 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Henrique Medina High School, Esponnde ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1616 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Teachers of teaching Portuguese abroad ( BE ), lower than 8. In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u3	Before we begin the first point on our agenda today, I am taking advantage of complimenting the members of the Government who have arrived in the meantime. Mrs. Members, the first item is a current debate required by the Greens under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme « The exemption of environmental impact assessment for oil exploration hole off Aljezur ». For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Energy, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS can make a thousand and a speech on the participation of citizens and on the importance of environmental policy. It's just that everything falls to the ground when the PS government makes political decisions like the one we're going to debate today. The APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) decided to exempt from environmental impact assessment oil research off Aljezur and the Government immediately accepted, accepted and confirmed this decision. There is only one explanation in our perspective: as before the Ministry of the Environment of PSD, CDS and PS, the current Ministry of the Environment puts economic interests of large companies, in this case the consortium ENI-Galp, above environmental security, security of people and also environmental policy instruments. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, four notes on the decision on the need for environmental impact assessment on oil exploration. First note: the decision to have no environmental impact assessment or to have been preceded by public hearing. All public contributions defended the conduct of environmental impact studies; however, APA and the Government decided otherwise. Second note: in the current law of the environmental impact assessment regime, with the contribution with a specific proposal, presented by the Greens, in the Assembly of the Republic, the environmental impact assessment was introduced for the phase of research of oil by conventional methods, just to safeguard situations relating to current contracts. However, the APA and the Government, who knew this spirit of the legislator, decided otherwise. Third note: they say that no significant negative impacts have been identified, but the consortium and APA point to a number of risks and negative impacts, including the diffusion of materials and sludge that can affect and be absorbed by marine fauna, very high levels of noise impact on biodiversity and, in particular, on cetaceans communities, the risk of failure of pressure control systems with effective impact on the coast and on classified areas, such as the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejan and the Costa Vicentina, omit serious studies on the seismic area characteristic, among so many other issues. Fourth note: there is no environmental impact assessment without detailed, public and public studies on the results of this environmental impact study. It is therefore not loyal and, moreover, demonstrates a complete devaluation of the intervention of citizens, associations, authorities and so many other entities and movements. The question that needs to be asked, Minister, is the following: what is the government afraid of an environmental impact assessment? What can environmental impact assessment show that the government does not want to reveal? Mr Minister, APA is the Portuguese Environment Agency, but it seems to be transformed into the Portuguese Environmental Aggression Agency. That is why you may even ask for the resignation of the President of APA, to consider it even inevitable, but for the Greens this is clearly insufficient. Thus, the Greens challenge today and here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the Minister of the Environment, to reverse the decision of the need for environmental impact assessment regarding the hole for oil research off Aljezur and to determine the conduct of an environmental impact study with its discussion and public consultation. There is no doubt, Mr Minister, that political responsibility is yours and the PS government. This challenge, which today, the Greens throw directly to the Minister of the Environment, is for the sake of transparency and democracy in our country. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u5	For an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What does the law say? That there has to be an environmental impact study when a project causes significant impacts on the environment. And what else does the law say? On the one hand, it typifies the projects that are necessarily subject to AIA (environmental impact assessment) and determines, alternatively, for example, the submission to AIA, that the hydrocarbon survey by conventional methods in non-sensitive areas is determined on a case-by-case basis. This is the situation we are discussing. As required by law, the previous assessment was made and the consulted entities of six different ministries concluded that this search hole, which is a temporary activity 46 km from the Portuguese coast, does not cause significant impacts on the environment. The Portuguese Environment Agency therefore decided that there would be no environmental impact study. Nevertheless, he placed a set of requirements, 50, for the hole to be carried out, some of them quite unusual, such as the monitoring of the hole and its post-evaluation. This is a technical decision of the administration of the State. Many of those who challenge it basically reject what the law says. They say that the law is to lay off and that the decisions of the Administration should not be objective but according to their will. For that is not the case, and that is not the case! This government's commitment to the decarbonisation of society cannot be called into question. It was EUR 850 million the amount of investment promoted with public funds in decarbonisation in 2017 and will be EUR 850 million this year. The commitment to be carbon neutral in the year 2050 is one of the biggest prides of this government. For him we are working and the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality will be under discussion, in a first version, in October of this year. It is then that we must take all the options. To get an idea, the challenge is this order of greatness: reducing emissions in Portugal by about 85 %. In the year 2050, won't oil be used in our country? It will! Sectors such as aviation, maritime transport and the manufacture of bituminous substances do not seem to be able to dispense, even in that year, the use of oil and its derivatives. Portugal now imports about 80 million barrels of oil per year. If we achieve our goal — to be carbon neutral — that number will be reduced to 10 to 15 million barrels in the year 2050. Until then, we'll import 1500 million barrels. The use of oil causes emissions, whether it's exploited anywhere. at this moment, we are familiar with our resources to know whether there is oil. If there is and for its prospect — the law obliges it, without doubt — an environmental impact assessment will have to be made. It recognises the Government which has inherited this contract and that the use and exploitation of oil is a topic to be discussed by Portuguese society. For this reason, the Government has decided to establish a moratorium until the end of this oil research legislation, and no new licences can be granted for this purpose. The public discussion will be held as soon as the government has in its possession the scenarios for carbon neutrality in the country in 2050, i.e. in October next. But it is not just a discussion about whether we want to explore it, it is also a discussion about whether we want to use it and whether we can actually live without it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u7	Mr Minister, you have signed up for clarification. Mr Paulo Sá and Mr Heloísa Apollonia. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u9	Of course, Minister. Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment, in July 2016, the Assembly of the Republic approved a draft resolution of the CFP, which recommended to the Government that environmental impact assessments be carried out to determine the risks resulting from the prospecting and research of oil and natural gas in the Algarve and the Alentejan coast and to define the measures to be taken to eliminate or minimize those risks, an initiative that was adopted only with the vote against the PSD. Although the Government is politically linked to compliance with the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic, the fact is that, after 36 months, the Government had not yet promoted these environmental impact assessments, so the CFP resubmitted to the Assembly of the Republic in December 2017 a new draft resolution recommending to the Government the suspension of the research and exploration activities of hydrocarbons off Aljezur until the conclusion, disclosure and public discussion of the environmental impact assessment. Having been approved, this proposal of the CFP has become a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, but the Government, ignoring once again the take-up of Parliament, has just announced that it will authorize research and exploration activities of hydrocarbons off Aljezur without the prior realization of any environmental impact assessment. This is a position which the CFP rejects vehemently. Even if it is not mandatory by law, the previous assessment of environmental impact was imposed on the legitimate concerns of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u12	This position of the Government becomes even more serious when it has objectively ignored and failed to comply with the recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic. The CFP resolution projects also included a recommendation to the Government to carry out an impact assessment that a possible exploration of oil and natural gas in the Alentejo Algarve and the Alentejan coast could have on other economic activities, particularly tourism. This recommendation, adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, has also been ignored by the Government, not yet known any initiative in this regard. Mr Environment Minister, the CFP believes that the Government cannot steal from compliance with the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic, nor can it hide behind the APA. The government is still in time to amend its hand and determine the conduct of environmental and impact impact assessments in other economic activities, disseminate these assessments and submit them to the broad and in-depth public debate, thus suspending any hydrocarbon research activity. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u13	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u14	Mr President, Minister, what people expect from the Minister of the Environment is not that the Minister comes to the Assembly of the Republic virtually demonstrating that he is willing to find oil in Portugal. That is practically what we can conclude from the intervention of the Minister. the Minister of the Environment is expecting exactly a logic that is contrary, in consonance, to the aim that the Government has assumed of decarbonization of our economy and society, and not to go counter to this objective. We can't give one on the nail and another on the ironing. The point is that we have to be consistent! Mr Minister, you can understand the question of the amendment to the law in a different way, but we here, in the Assembly of the Republic, gave you an instrument that you should have used, which was to change the law just to provide for the environmental impact assessment for oil research by conventional methods, and the Minister wastes this instrument that the Assembly of the Republic has given you a tray. What was that change of law for? For guarantees in respect of current contracts. Mr Minister, please do not come to the Assembly of the Republic to pretend that this is a technical matter and not a political issue. This is an eminently political issue and, in the face of doubts, disputes, public concerns raised, the government has a political responsibility to undertake an environmental impact assessment. You have that responsibility, Minister! And please do not come to us with the question of moratorium as if it were the other side of the currency that is given to us to accept the exemption of environmental impact study. It is that this moratorium that there will not be any new licences, which has been said here in the Assembly of the Republic, by the Prime Minister, is committed, in particular to the Greens, since the beginning of the legislature. Even to conclude, I say only this: returning back to the decision on environmental impact assessment is not a weakness, Minister, is a sign of political intelligence and sensitivity. We still expect this from you, Minister. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and the honourable Member of BE Jorge Duarte Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mr Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u16	Mr President, Member of Parliament, the political decisions of this Government in this area are three: to fulfil the existing contract, to establish a moratorium on future licences and to ensure that Portugal will have all the conditions to be carbon neutral in 2050. The decision on environmental impact assessment or non-assessment in this particular case and that the two Members who have already spoken agreed to be absolutely in line with the law is indeed a technical decision. Unless the Minister of the Environment got into it. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u17	And do the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic count for nothing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u18	We cannot fill our mouths by trying to value, and well, the Portuguese Administration and then, when these decisions are made, proceed as if this Administration did not exist and were a group of disabled people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u19	So the Members are certainly incompetent!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u20	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u21	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs and Mr. Members: The country is incredulous in the opinion of the Portuguese Environment Agency, which intends to dispense with the development of an environmental impact assessment for the oil exploration hole on the coast of Aljezur. In an attempt to justify this decision, APA contradicts the whole opinion. However, and because I'm only 1 minute old, I'm going to focus on the most obvious aspect of this shocking contradiction. The APA identified, page 8 of the Opinion on the subjecting of environmental impact assessment, that the drilling area constitutes a place of passage of cetaceans, with frequent presence of various species such as cachalotes, whales or dolphins. It also refers to the very relevant emission of high levels of noise, which will have negative consequences for these species of cetaceans. However, APA is neglecting the fact that all species of cetaceans are protected by Decree-Law No 140/99 and that, in accordance with the legislation regulating environmental impact assessment, all projects with direct or indirect impacts in these species have to be subject to an environmental impact assessment, which is the case. Mr Minister, it is not understandable that the APA, having identified and assumed that these works will have negative impacts on these species, has not considered sufficient reason for the development of an environmental impact assessment. On the contrary, it was a mere monitoring plan. This is totally irresponsible! For APA, the application of legal instruments for environmental protection and recovery policies, protection of ecosystems and marine animals is an obstacle to economic activity. Mr Environment Minister, APA exists to defend environmental values and not to be a secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is neither understandable nor acceptable for this Agency to never apply the precautionary principle, which does not listen to citizens, NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and the Assembly of the Republic and which always places itself next to the polluting industries. This is the case with oil, cellulose and pig husbandry. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u22	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the Greens for bringing this issue up to debate and I start by recalling that this discussion is now gaining, from the very moment on, because the Government and the PS have repeatedly proclaimed something and practiced its opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u25	And it gains today because what we have always considered essential in this debate, on the one hand, transparency, on the other hand, guarantees of environmental security, are, as you have seen and is now being seen, concerns to which the government says nothing. That is why this debate is also about credibility and trust, in this case about lack of confidence. The Government and the PS may be in favour or against oil research and exploration. Incomprehensible is that, at the same time, or according to, they are in favour and against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u27	It is unacceptable that they legislate in these cases to be compulsory to consult the municipalities—and the competent part of this legislation we have duly denounced—and then the government is absolutely indifferent to what the municipalities say and the positions they adopt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u29	Incomprehensible is the government to grant permission to a search hole without requiring environmental impact study and, at the same time, the PS comes to say that it is a shame for the environment to the APA's decision to exempt the environmental impact study, as if the PS did not know that decisions and licensing conditions always depend on the government. In fact, this became clear when the Minister for Foreign Affairs, soon thereafter, came to agree with APA's decision, clearly and politically taking up the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u30	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u31	It's not new. It's been like that! This was the case in December 2016, when PS Algarve welcomed the government's decision to terminate oil exploration contracts, and soon thereafter the Government announced the initial authorization for this same research hole, on the basis of a 2007 licence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u33	It's a farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u34	All this at the same time as Mrs.Minister of the Sea in the United States, in a promotion action, challenged major international investors and presented offshore oil exploration as an investment opportunity in our country. [[The PSD Member's laughs Emídio Guerreiro.]] This was while the public consultation of the title of use of the same survey received 42,000 objections last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u36	All this after it was announced that whether or not the environmental impact assessment process would be decided on according to the results of the recent public consultation when, after all, the decision was contrary to the participations in this public consultation. This is whilst the Government disregards the recommendations of the Assembly of the Republic on this subject, in particular the recommendation, following the initiative of the PSD, to draw up a Green Paper on hydrocarbons, essentially aiming at mechanisms for clarification, transparency and environmental protection. And this, finally, while the Minister for Foreign Affairs, while announcing the release of the environmental impact procedure, comes to restate the country with a moratorium.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u37	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u38	Until the legislative elections, Mr Minister, will ensure that new licences for prospecting and research will not be allocated. [[PSD applause.]] Remarkable! Instead of environmental precaution, the Minister is concerned about another precautionary principle, which, in the election campaign, by the way, does not mean that there are no prospector holes. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD vehemently denounces this lack of rigour, this lack of transparency and the lack of transparency in terms of environmental protection which has characterized the process and which culminates in this episode of disrespect by the citizens who participated in public consultations - I remember that the 42 000 participations did not even have a response. It is a process of mistrust, uncertainty and, therefore, it is unacceptable in this framework, with all this public participation, with all these background, the environmental impact assessment procedure is dispensed. The government is still in time to amend its hand, and that is what is required on behalf of the public interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u39	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decision taken by APA, announced and supported by the Government too, is a very serious fact. contrary to what APA says, it is historically demonstrated the danger of oil exploration through numerous accidents occurred and recorded. contrary to what the government says, there is nothing in the contracts that prevents the realization of an environmental impact assessment on prospecting, and it was, in fact, that with the vote of the Socialist Party, the law was changed to open this possibility immediately at the prospecting stage. But the PS and the Government must be a deeper explanation to the country, because, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia recalls — and I welcome her - on the initiative of this debate - the bill that the Left Block presented and which was approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, proposes, in the opening of the speciality process, the mandatory implementation of the environmental impact assessment. She did not stay in the law because, contrary to what the Socialist Party had said in the draft resolution that she presented recommending the conduct of environmental impact assessment, the PS voted against this obligation. The Block still tried to keep it in the hands of the authorities a binding opinion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u42	... so that, if the authorities gave an opinion in favour, the environmental impact assessment would be carried out by obligation. What was the party that was opposed and prevented this from happening? The PS, with the abstention of the PSD, now here he was indignant. After all, it was a conscious choice. The PS says it is very important to listen to the people, it is very important to listen to the authorities, it is very important to listen to the economic agents, it is all very important but it is not worth anything, because in the end it is worth the word of the President of APA, the same as he was already President of APA when the previous government handed over half of the Algarve into contracts that enabled Sousa Cintra to be prospected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u43	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u44	Aren't you ashamed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u45	It is from the hands of the honourable Member that the signature leaves to decide whether or not there is this environmental impact assessment. Therefore, the Government can today proclaim the moratoriums it understands, it is not giving any novelty because, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, we have had this guarantee since the beginning of the Legislature. What you now have to say is whether or not you go back to this decision, because this change depends on the realization by the energy companies — the Galp, the ENI — that you already knew what to expect from APA, because you had the memory of Celtego, and now the country knows what the government and the Socialist Party can expect in such matters as this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u46	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Torres, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u47	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the Green Group of the Green Party for bringing this issue to this debate today, which is indeed sensitive. I would also like to say that for the PS Parliamentary Group this is a good opportunity to clarify citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u48	It's an excellent opportunity! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u49	And the government will march back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u50	... because it is our obligation not to create false alarms on this matter. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are three fundamental issues that need to be fully clarified today. Firstly, a question of a formal nature or of a legal nature; secondly, a question of security is a matter of greater relevance; and finally, a question of political framework. With regard to the issue of formality, to make it clear in this House, I will say the following: the legislation in force has been scrupulously complied with. What the law says is that, in cases of prospecting oil holes through conventional methods, the need for an environmental impact study will be analyzed on a case-by-case basis. However, if the law so determines, we must be available for this assessment to go so that the environmental impact study is mandatory, just as we must be available to rely on the technical decisions of our Administration, if the decision, in this case the Portuguese Environment Agency, is precisely the opposite direction, as is the case in this specific case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u51	Do you still trust APA? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u52	In fact, the law has been reviewed in this House not long ago and therefore, despite the laws that can always be reviewed, there is no legal building on this matter here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u53	The "building" had been holes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u54	Secondly, a security issue, which is of the greatest relevance, especially environmental security. It should be stressed that the safety of this operation is safeguarded. This is a research hole, and if oil is found, it will necessarily be made an environmental impact study. Although the need for this study has not been considered at this time, there were 50 taxes from the Portuguese Environment Agency, which, of course, the PS Parliamentary Group accompanies and which will have to be met to limit the associated environmental risks. The third question, which is also of no lesser relevance, has to do with the political framework. This is even the only contract in the Algarve region where the government has found no reason to terminate. This is because you have already done so with two contracts — it is important not to forget — which have been concluded by the government to which you are going. Ex.a. belonged, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD protests.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u55	It is very important that you hear it clearly: the PS Parliamentary Group does not have a heavy conscience on this issue! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A commitment must be made to legal continuity or contractual stability, but we do not accept any lesson of morality from the PSD on this matter, in the Assembly of the Republic or in Portuguese society. It is also important to point out, with regard to this last issue of the political framework, that the moratorium adopted by the Government is not of minor relevance. It is a moratorium of great relevance, because until the end of the legislature, contrary to what happened several times with the government to which you are. For example, there will be no new oil prospecting contracts in the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u56	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u57	Mr President, Mr. João Torres, what you said about what is in the law requires you to ask immediately the following: if a bill is presented in the Assembly of the Republic, in view of all that is now known, which makes it mandatory, as the Greens also proposed in their draft original law, the environmental impact assessment for the research of oil by conventional methods, the PS, this time, has already accepted? I need to ask you this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u58	To reply, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u59	The answer is clear: yes or no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u60	Mr President, Madam Member, I will reply to you very briefly: at this time the Government has already guaranteed that there will be no new operating contracts until the end of the legislature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u61	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u62	... no amendment to the legislation which was revised in 2017 should be discussed. In principle, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in the same direction as it did in the past,... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u63	In principle!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u64	... but I would like to say to the honourable Member, with all sincerity, that we must rely on decisions that have more technical than political in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u65	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party for bringing this matter to discussion. In addition to its importance to the country, this matter is of extreme political importance, which is to make clear and serve as proof how, in such important and relevant matters, management is of some helplessness that proves itself. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] It has already been said — I almost didn't need to say anything, because it became clear...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u67	This is the talk of the Swiss handkerchief about utility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u68	I'm talking nonsense! As I was saying, it was clear that they are not able, in an important, relevant, essential matter, to find the minimum of responsibility, common denominator and clarity to clarify such populations, the Country and the national interest. The CDS will repeat what it has always said: it is almost a national priority the country knows what resources it has. Then there will be a second time when the country has to decide whether to exploit these resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u69	So far we agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u70	This decision must be made with broad political consensus, with great technical consistency and with great consensus from all parties involved. The CDS never objected to reinforcements, revisions, and even increased scrutiny of any law, whether environmental impact, whether the participation of municipalities or the participation of Parliament, so that we could all make clear decisions. The CDS maintains exactly that position. That is why we voted as we voted on the various initiatives — and the Greens have been quite active in this area. She referred to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who was also approved by the Socialist Party, a draft resolution saying that she should stop immediately with any prospecting, exploitation contract. The Socialist Party which, in December, approved this matter is the same as that extended this same concession in January.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u71	I was in opposition at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u72	I ask the Greens Ecological Party if it still trusts this Socialist Party. On the other hand, the Socialist Party led another project, which was the one which, on this proposal in particular, also provided for the revision, the declaration of environmental impact, among other matters. Today, it was also clear—and this debate was useful— by looking at Mr Foreign Minister's statements that the Socialist Party does not govern for the next generation and its sustainability. The Socialist Party is ruling for the next elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u74	That also became perfectly clear. The question that arises is this: still, does this APA position violate the legal and legislative framework? Don't! In fact, what APA did was to comply scrupulously—and there Mr João Torres is right — what is in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u75	The CDS is supporting the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u76	Now, as the law is being complied with, and because we live in a rule of law, what the CDS expects — and asks the government to do so — is that the Government be rigorous in the scrutiny of the 50 measures, because the APA, despite having taken its position and not taking it simply, imposed certain obligations, requirements which, from the point of view of the CDS, seem reasonable. Therefore, the CDS, maintaining the same position as always and not wanting, even to be demagogic, or alarmist in this matter, asks the Government, since it is so, and because it is important to preserve environmental issues and political consensus, that all measures recommended by APA are complied with...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u77	The government has the support of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u78	... and that only after that can one possibly operate on this holding. If this happens, the country will obviously have to rely on its institutions in the legislation in force. But she will have to trust less and have less hope in the position of management, because she once again proved to be completely useless. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u79	The CDS supports a government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u80	Don't! That makes the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u81	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : A sovereign energy policy, as one of the foundations of national development, necessarily requires the improvement of energy efficiency, the inventory as exhaustive as possible of our resources in renewable and non-renewable energy, as well as the continuation of the reduction of our energy deficit, in particular through the planned exploitation of such resources. Portugal must take advantage of its energy resources in order to enhance economic development and social progress and to ensure that the living conditions of the population are elevated. This objective will be closer if the prospecting and exploitation of these resources is made by public companies and structures. We should not, firstly, reject the need to know and consider the use of these resources, but this use must not fail to take into account the protection of environmental values and the impact on other economic activities. in this sense, we have strongly defended the conduct of environmental impact assessments and impact assessments in other economic activities, prior to any research activity, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We presented to the Assembly a draft resolution to that effect, which was approved; we presented another draft resolution, recommending the suspension of the prospectus off Aljezur until the conclusion of the evaluations, which was also approved. These two CFP initiatives, becoming resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic, cannot be ignored by the Government. Such an attitude would be disrespected by Parliament. It is therefore necessary for the Government to comply with the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic rather than hide behind the Portuguese Environment Agency and to carry out environmental and impact assessments in other economic activities. There have been legitimate doubts and concerns by sectors of the population, economic agents and authorities regarding research activities and exploration of oil and natural gas off the coast of the Alentejo and the Alentejo coast. Such doubts and concerns make it even more necessary to assess environmental risks and impact on other economic activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u83	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u84	I conclude now, Mr President. These assessments should be widely disseminated and discussed to reflect, in a clear manner, the advantages and disadvantages, the opportunity and conditions for the use of any existing energy resources in the Algarve and Alentejo. Only with these assessments and this debate will the country be able to make an informed decision that safeguards national interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u85	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It was truly scandalous, a shame, which the former PSD/CDS government, by the hands of the former Minister of Environment Moreira da Silva, did in oil concessions: five or ten days before the legislative elections signed contracts in the greatest secret, which was a real shame. If it were not for the struggle of the populations, of the autoarchs, of the environmental associations, we would still have many of these contracts today. It was this struggle that ruled and cancelled several of these contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u88	Unfortunately, in this respect, the current government is also becoming a disappointment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u89	One more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u90	How is it possible for the Portuguese Environment Agency, then, the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister to ignore the will of the people, the struggle of the autoarchs, associations and various personalities and entities? More than 42 000 people had already manifested themselves against the opening of the Aljezur hole. In fact, what we have here cannot happen! Despite this, the Government granted a licence to the Galp-Eni consortium. As it is known, the prospecting and exploitation of hydrocarbons in protected areas will represent a serious risk for both these classified and protected areas, for example for economic activities, tourism, agriculture, health, therefore, for the populations. There is the danger of infiltration into aquifers and watercourses and they will in fact be concerned with economic activities, as you said. The country has to wager in the decarbonization of the economy, in the paradigm of reverting fossil energies to renewable energies. It is necessary for the Government to comply with what it has committed to the Paris Conference, but that is not what we are seeing. At the very least, what is now required was an environmental impact assessment. Mr. Minister, what existed was a farce, it was a clown: about 1600 people said they did not want to exploit hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u91	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u92	The Government cannot hide itself from the idea that this was not an issue of analysis. Mr Minister, you will have to reverse these decisions, because unless the associations, the people will naturally ask for your resignation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u93	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u94	I remind the Socialist Party that the president of the Municipal Chamber of Lakes of the PS says the government is starting a war against the Algarve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u95	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Minister for the Environment has lost a sovereign opportunity to correct the shooting and to realize that it is in favour of transparency and, from this point of view, to state here that the doctrine of the Government is deeply wrong and that it was imperative, in order to regain the confidence of the citizens, to carry out the environmental impact study. It therefore rejects and eliminates this trust from the citizens. But it is also important to deal with another matter: Mr João Torres said — and well! — the contracts concluded by the previous Government had been evaluated. I think we should do that poll. So far, the only contract that has not been evaluated — and curiously, the Government has not done so, nor has it requested opinions from the Attorney-General of the Republic — was the contract concluded in 2007, of which we are talking today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u97	In 2007!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u98	But it wasn't on the eve of elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u99	As far as that is concerned, the honourable Members are concerned. Members should ask, they should ask the government to make such an assessment. We therefore ask the Minister to review the doctrine so that these positions are not sent, when one day something is defended, on another day, in which there are moratoriums and nothing is resolved, violating the confidence of the citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u100	For an intervention, Mr Luís Graça, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Cristovão Norte may well be the spokesman of Dr. Rui Rio, but he is not the spokesman of the Algarve. And he is not the spokesman for the Algarve because the PSD government, when it granted 80 % of that region to the entrepreneur Sousa Cintra to drill from Algezur to Tavira, Mr Cristovão Norte shut up, silenced himself, said nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When this measure was taken, on the basis of the legislative elections, Mr Cristovão Norte was not the spokesman for the Algarve, he resigned from this function and, therefore, he has no legitimacy to come here today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when, a year ago, we changed the legislation, we changed it sincerely, and today's legislation is better than we had a year ago. The work of the left parties was positive, because it placed the entire process of exploration and exploitation of oil within the perimeter of the legal regime of environmental impact assessment. There is a technical decision that we may not like — in particular, I do not like — but it was a technical decision, it was not political. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u102	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. But there is also a question that the government has to deal with. This law, which is better than that of the PSD time, provides for the establishment of a technical monitoring committee which is essential to ensure transparency and truth in the monitoring of the procedures of all these contracts and this technical committee should have been set up in 90 days. Today it is necessary for the Government to establish this technical committee urgently. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u104	For an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u105	It's still time to change your hand, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : replying to Mr Hélder Amaral, I say yes, that the Government will take care of compliance with the 50 measures that have been imposed. I also say that yes to Mr Luís Graça, this technical committee will also be set up by suggestion from you. to the Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members say that, whenever they wish, we will also be here to discuss the licences that your previous government allocated on the eve of elections, which occupied more than half the Algarve, and that this government in very good time cancelled. And yes, the allocation of these licences was indeed a political decision. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We can't fill our mouths with wanting to value administration, and then lower it when she makes decisions. We cannot wish to go back to the law, confusing state and government, and making policies decisions that the law says are technical. Discarbonisation is to stop using fossil fuels. Let's start with coal, we'll continue with oil. We will live without coal in 2030, but unfortunately we will not be able to live without oil in 2050. This is a search hole 46 km from the coast, made with the best available techniques and with a minimum risk — no activity has a risk below minimum. In my opinion, the great commitment and the great discussion we have to have is how we will be able to reduce our emissions by 85 % by 2050. Oil, exploited wherever it is, produces the same emissions and what we have ahead of us is to stop using 80 million barrels per year in Portugal and start using between 10 and 15 million barrels in the year 2050. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u107	To conclude the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u108	Mr President, Minister, say that the administration is untouchable, that it is only technical matters and that the Government is taking a stand in its political decision does not take. And don't take why? I will give you a very concrete example. Mr. Minister, at one point, woke up to the fact that APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) made a brutal mistake when it increased the discharge license of Celtejo. What has Mr. Minister done? You didn't respect the administration, did you? Mr. Minister said the license was altered. Therefore, Mr Minister, in the face of an error, made a political decision to seek to amend his hand. That is what you have to do in this situation, but the Minister is not politically willing to change the APA decision. The proof that this is not a technical but political issue was the answer that Mr. João Torres gave to the simple request for clarification that I made to him, which was: it could be in the hands of the Assembly of the Republic that the creation of the real obligation that the Greens wanted to assess environmental impact, said that no, because this is a technical matter and that the PS would actually make the same decision! [[Protests from PS MP João Torres.]] You don't learn from mistakes. And carefully, you are falling into disbelief, particularly with regard to environmental policies. The Minister is demonstrating, like all the other ministers of the environment of previous governments—the PSD, the CDS and the PS—that has no political force in the government! In fact, the ministers of the environment need a transversal power. What Mr. Minister is doing is accepting that the other sectors embrace his ministry, they embrace his ministry! And Mr. Minister crosses his arms and says: "It was good that they discovered oil in Portugal. Exploring here or there doesn't matter! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” What about the risks for us? What about the risks to the environment? And the risks to the safety of our population, our coast, our protected areas, our sea? Mr. Minister, you don't want to evaluate them. It does not want to carry out an environmental impact study, nor does it want the population to participate — authorities, associations, citizens — in relation to the results of an environmental impact study! You're subverting everything and you're losing politically, Minister! Mr. Minister is weakening politically. This is the note the Greens leave here today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u109	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda today. Let us turn to draft resolution No 1471/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2018 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). [[At the moment, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u110	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to open the debate, have the floor of Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As rapporteur of this opinion, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I consider it important to mention that the European Commission's 2018 work programme comes to this House because it is a decision of Parliament and it is always important to remember and evaluate what has been or what has been the work of the European Commission. Today, many discuss the relevance of bringing this resolution to the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament, but it must above all be an opportunity to discuss Europe and also to show the positive side of European construction. That is why this time can also be used. Portugal is one of the most successful countries with European participation, but above all with the opportunities that cohesion money brings to our country, to our territory, to businesses, to institutions and, above all, to people. in a period when we negotiate the PT 2030 it is important to stress that Portugal must be united to ensure that the cohesion funds come to Portugal in great quantity, with great quality and that they will be used by all to ensure the fight against social inequalities, the inequalities of the territory and, above all, to create a more developed and sustainable country. This is the opportunity for the parties together and with the government to make changes and to include in the criteria that will allow the arrival of cohesion funds to the territory not only GDP, not only unemployment, not just climate change or demographic issues. If there is a priority that the Portuguese Government should have to include in these criteria that low-density territories, the most desertified areas should be valued in the distribution of cohesion funds. This is a fight we must fight together: the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, the Government and even the President of the Republic. Portugal should be able to ensure that desertification and depopulation are important criteria for ensuring more cohesion money. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members today who are discussing the European Union, it is also important to remember that the European Parliament approved yesterday a solidarity fund for Portugal, an amount of EUR 50 million for fire-affected areas. Parliament has adopted a resolution and a law which allows the same distribution of aid to fire-affected municipalities. It is important to ensure that Parliament is next to the people so that all the municipalities in which damage has been counted to ensure the approval of this solidarity fund will also receive part of this money approved by Brussels. Councils cannot only count to account for damages; they must all also count to receive European aid, and we hope that this House will be united to ensure that the government will distribute the aid equally in fire-affected councils. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a resolution that seems trivial, but as coordinator of the European Initiatives Task Force, I recognize its usefulness, even though the year is already ahead. As we know, the main role of national parliaments in the line of treaties is essentially to exercise parliamentary control over European policy by the way of appointing their own governments represented in the Council or in the European Council, but it is also to decide on proportionality and subsidiarity. Citing Mr. Paulo Rangel in his report on the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty on National Parliaments, «the Treaty of Lisbon became known as the Treaty of Parliaments, precisely because it greatly increased the powers of the European Parliament while recognizing the constitutional role of national parliaments in the European framework. They have played an essential role in ensuring the democratic legitimacy of the Union, in promoting its pluralism and diversity and in ensuring its constitutional functioning ». Under the Treaty of Lisbon, perhaps more in the spirit of the Treaty than in its letter, national parliaments have been increasingly called on to act directly at European level, in interaction with both the European Parliament and the European Commission. If in matters relating to the control of the rights of subsidiarity and information the role of national parliaments is clear, and that is why we are taking this decision here today, the involvement of national parliaments in European affairs is a key factor in improving European democracy. I am quoting three examples. First example: the European Semester, where we believe it is necessary to move forward towards a higher level of parliamentary control at national and European level in the coordination of economic and budgetary policies. The second example is the Plurianual Financial Framework. This Parliament intends to set up a possible committee for the follow-up of the political decision-making process on the multiannual financial framework, therefore going beyond a mere monitoring of subsidiarity. Mr Pedro Silva Pereira reminded us today at a hearing in 17. the Commission, that the decision on own resources for the next budgetary period 2021 - 2027 may necessarily involve national parliaments in accordance with our constitutional rules. Third and final example: trade agreements. The decision of the European Commission to attribute the mixed nature of the trade treaty with Canada, reinforced by the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the mixed nature of the trade agreement with Singapore, gave power to national parliaments in these trade agreements and also to future trade agreements. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u114	Also for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : The European Commission's work programme is an extensive document submitted by the Commission every year, where it refers to its political priorities each year. However, these political priorities, at every moment, when we look carefully at what is at stake, in fact they end up as a continuation over the years of European policies, of the Commission's choices, and that means — it means — it means — very big mistakes for European citizens. This is also evident in the European Commission's 2018 work programme, in particular with the deepening of some options that are very wrong. For example, we want to deepen banking union, the desire for the creation of a European minister for economics and finance, the deepening of mechanisms for militarization and border closure and border control. So we have here a number of policy options that are only going to deepen what is already very wrong in the European Union today. But also within the framework of the multiannual financial framework, we know today that, for example, cohesion policies will be seriously affected, in a very clear choice — perhaps more clearly than some years ago — by militarisation policies, border closure policies, not by continuity in cohesion or in the common agricultural policy. And we also know today that Portugal in particular will possibly be more affected than other European countries in this area. In our view, this is a mistake, and the European Commission's 2018 Work Programme only confirms this same mistake, because it has to do with political options. Some might also think that the discussion of the European Commission's Work Programme serves to have a major debate on European issues, but the fact is that it does not serve to have any debate on European issues, not only because of the short time we have to debate it, but also because, despite our analysis and scrutiny of measures and proposals, the fact is that, in most cases, they do not go beyond very good declarations of intentions and then have no connection with reality. For example, there is a lot of talk about strengthening democracy, strengthening the rule of law, but when we move on to practice, we continue to see very serious abuses in Hungary or the Spanish state or, then, to see the opacity with which trade treaties continue to be negotiated, as has been mentioned here. Therefore, some of the examples mentioned here, particularly by Mrs Margarida Marques, as those good examples of how the European Union works, are exactly the worst examples of how the European Union works, which is based on opacity and increasingly diminishing the role of parliaments. As a last note, Mr President, I would say that if this analysis and scrutiny of the European Commission's Work Programme are for any purpose necessary, it should really serve as a democratic debate to discuss Europe, as it is said. But that's not what he's for. In fact, it only serves to make more reports on certain measures, however, as regards the democratic role and decision-making role of the national parliaments, we have increasingly played a role in the European decision. This is still a mistake, and the European Commission's Work Programme remains the same. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u116	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and a very special compliment to the rapporteur for his opinion on this matter. On behalf of the CDS bench, I would like to say that who, like us, has a demanding European position knows that this requirement also goes through the scrutiny that we have to do to all the European institutions and, very headlong, to the European Commission itself. That is exactly why we have to use all the instruments, all the mechanisms that we have, in particular from a national point of view, the instrument that is Parliament's to be able to do the polling on two matters which are fundamental, as to whether the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality apply whenever a measure is taken at European level. Today, more Europe can no longer mean Brussels. On the contrary, we will deepen the process of European construction, deepen and go further in the defence of the values which they have constituted and which continue to constitute the European Union, values which are the fundamental values of our democracy, must sometimes mean blocking Brussels. Today, but Europe is less Brussels. One of the reasons that led to the crisis, the divorce between citizens and Europe is what is often called over-regulation, excessive regulation. Europe wants to legislate above all and above all, from the size of fruit, regional gastronomy, the use or not of stickers, time zones, fishing nets, the diameter of umbrellas, finally a set of matters on which we do not have Community legislation, because Member States, countries, if they feel this need, can legislate in a way that is more than enough. The scrutiny that the Portuguese Parliament makes to the institutions is precisely to know whether or not we guarantee the application of the principle of subsidiarity, that principle which tells us that we should only assign to the European Union what we alone, in the field of the Member States, cannot do or do in such an effective way. That is exactly why this draft resolution is so important, it is to remind us of the responsibility of the Portuguese Parliament to examine matters such as the next multiannual financial framework, i.e. the next Community budget, matters that have to do with matters as relevant as the digital single market or as the energy union, matters that have to do with such important issues, at this time, for our life as a society, such as the conclusion of the Economic and Monetary Union or the completion of the banking union. Those who are demanding in the process of building from a European point of view must also be demanding within the home. That is exactly what the role of Parliament also serves, not only in terms of being able to vote, to be able to criticize and to say what is wrong, but also to be able to support and support things that are right, particularly in terms of the construction of the fundamental values of our democracy and the European Union. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u118	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: contrary to what Mr Duarte Filipe Marques — which I am taking advantage of to congratulate — I told us here that Portugal is one of the most successful countries with the European Union and its integration, the reality in this case works undisturbedly. It is that, over the last 20 years, with the exception of the last few years alone, Portugal has always been on a divergent path in economic growth, always on a divergent course with the European Union average, which shows that rather than getting closer, that is, we would enter a path of growth and equality with European countries and powers—as at the time they said PS, PSD and CDS—the reality has shown precisely the opposite. at the same time, Portugal was dismantled, by option of PS, PSD and CDS, and also by direction of the European Union, its production apparatus in virtually all dimensions. By virtue of the single market and the single currency, Portugal is today a more indebted country and a more dependent country. The European Commission's annual work programme, which is the subject of an opinion by the European Committee on European Affairs, translates the continuity of policies and options for deeply neoliberal alignment with the development of capitalism at the European Union level. It is therefore a consolidation programme of a course which has so far been implemented by European Union guidance in all essential aspects. And, even looking at the initiatives that the European Committee on European Affairs and Parliament are proposing to vote more prominently, this is evidence of that. We look at a programme that is based mainly on the completion of the major axes of the European Union and they all develop policies that have already shown themselves to be deeply damaging to national interest: a banking union against national interest, a union of capital against national interest, a European finance minister against national interest, finally a set of initiatives that translate, all of them, a perspective and a path of deepening federalism at the European Union level and which are secondary to national interest. on the part of the CFP, it is not useful to make this debate or not and to make this report or not. The problem in this case is not the usefulness of the report, nor the usefulness of the polling, but the composition of the polling machine, which has a majority PS / PSD / CDS, which gives as good all the initiatives of the European Union,... [[PSD protests.]] ... irrespective of its connection or alignment with the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. In the meantime, Mrs. Queen Ramos Bastos asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u121	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u122	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u123	Mr President, I appreciate your giving me the floor. This is a positive question, in order to welcome Mr President and the parliamentary groups, who, at the Leaders' Conference, have ended the tradition of only voting on these draft resolutions on the European Commission's work programmes for each year, giving time for debate on this matter. It is increasingly important that the plenary of the 230 Members elected by the Portuguese people have the opportunity to debate the European issues that mark our day-to-day, through the legislation produced in the European Parliament, together with the European Commission and the Council, giving a voice at the very important moment that is the future of Europe on the eve of European elections in the coming year and, in particular, the negotiation of the future multiannual financial framework, which will affect Portugal in terms of the implementation of future Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u124	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u125	Again, thank you very much. And again, congratulations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u126	Madam Member, the Bureau took into account the very special circumstances of the Member to be the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of draft resolutions Nos 887 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists/ dietists in institutions in the social and solidarity sector providing care to the elderly ( PSD ), 1606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Existence of nutritionists / dietists and pharmacists in IPSS ( PCP ) and 1608 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists in institutions providing care to the elderly ( NAP ). To present the PSD initiative, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Increased average life expectancy requires public policies to support active and healthy ageing. In fact, Portugal is the fifth largest aging country in the European Union. This is a reality we cannot stay away from. To respond to this increase in the number of elderly people, Portugal has an important network of institutions in the social and solidarity sector, which care for a whole universe of people who need individualized and personalized care, satisfying their basic needs and activities of daily life. However, this increase in the number of elderly people, who reach their homes today older and more dependent, has been a challenge for the State and for the functioning of these institutions, who are constantly concerned about improving their performance. It is true that, as age increases, there are numerous physiological, cognitive, emotional and functional changes, increasing the risk of chronic diseases, which will require an increased effort in the coming decades of the costs associated with health and continuous care. But we also know that a large percentage of chronic diseases that affect the elderly can be avoided or significantly combated by feeding, thus providing an active and healthy aging. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, proposing policies with a view to improving the health and nutritional status of the population requires a basis of scientific evidence. And she exists! In 2017, the results of several scientific studies that presented alarming data on the nutritional status of the Portuguese population were known. Some of the most worrying values of the prevalence of obesity and malnutrition are among the elderly, and there are worrying data because malnutrition is associated with a greater risk of morbidity, premature death, decreased autonomy and quality of life, as well as an increase in substantial costs for health systems. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, currently, it is found that several institutions in the social and solidarity sector do not have the support of nutritionists to ensure the essential nutritional follow-up of their elderly, but it is important to recognize that there is an increasing concern of these institutions with the promoting factors of the welfare of the elderly, including health, nutritional status and physical activity. It is important that institutions providing care to the elderly ensure that their nutritional needs are met according to their morbidity and disability. Nutritionists, as reference health professionals in the field of food and nutrition, can assist in this desire, so the PSD recommends to the Government the integration of these professionals into the institutions of the social and solidarity sector. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware of the obvious financial difficulties that many of these institutions are experiencing. Most of them are entities in the social and solidarity sector where public funding, through cooperation agreements, has a significant weight in its budgetary balance. Therefore, the PSD recommends that the values of these cooperation agreements be increased in order to reflect the increase in costs with the hiring of nutritionists, and that this increase in the medium and long term will certainly result in a reduction in other costs, including health costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u129	In fact, the nutritional status of the elderly population has an impact on the level of public health and sustainability of the National Health System ( SNS ), so the Ministries of Labour and Health should promote a work of cooperation and sharing resources in order to overcome the difficulties experienced by this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u131	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in Portugal we have seen an increase in longevity, which we see as something very positive. However, we want them to be years of quality and happiness and therefore we understand that conditions must be created that will enable every elderly citizen to benefit from the best health and well-being care! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u132	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, it is important to begin by saying that we understand that it is the responsibility of the State to respond to the needs of families through the existence of quality public services, especially with regard to the social functions of the State, a primary responsibility of the State that should not be transferred to others. over several years, successive governments have been deresponsible and transferring responsibilities in the context of social responses, particularly to IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity). We understand that IPSS should have a complementary role to the role that the State is constitutionally obliged to ensure social responses and should not be replaced by the State. We recognize the work carried out by many IPSS, many of them constituted in the face of lack and even the absence of public responses or resulting from voluntary organization of people around the need for concrete solutions. We recognize and value the work provided by IPSS workers, the overwhelming majority with low wages and with difficult working conditions. The IPSS provides children, young people and the elderly with access to a set of services and equipment, such as day care facilities, leisure activities, residential homes, homes of the elderly, day care centres or living facilities, among other equipment and services that are effectively important. The shortage and, in some cases, the absence of public responses makes many families find in these institutions solutions for their children and young people, which also occurs with the elderly. This lack and even lack of public responses to support the elderly makes it that it is in these institutions that they find answers to what they need, being many of the elderly who attend and make their lives in these spaces. These responses and services cannot be devalued by the importance they have in the lives of these people and their families, and should be as appropriate as possible to the needs of each user. Considering this reality, the fact that many elderly people lived in these institutions and the undeniable importance of access to healthy, balanced and adequate food for health conditions, it is important that these institutions have the human resources needed to define proper food for users and to take into account the needs and characteristics of each individual. In this regard, it is also important to remember the data in the report of the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food, which identified 14, 8 % of the elderly in Portugal at risk of malnutrition, and 1, 3 % were effectively undernourished. A reality to which the IPSS will not naturally be immune and which will have implications for the health conditions of the elderly of these institutions, as well as for their conditions of resistance to the disease. Thus, the existence of nutritionists and dieters in the IPSS assumes great importance for the feeding of the elderly to take into account their needs and health conditions. The existence of pharmacists in the IPSS, for the administration of drugs for which these functions must effectively be performed, is of great importance. Of course, without prejudice to deeper and more structural measures that ensure the fulfilment of the responsibility of the State in this area, we believe that, in view of the reality of the services provided by IPSS, it is important to take measures that guarantee a quality response to the users, that they respond to their needs and that they also guarantee their comfort and well-being. The proposal we put forward aims to make a contribution in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u134	Mr André Silva also has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is the fifth largest aging country in the European Union. With the increase in age, there are numerous physiological, cognitive, emotional and functional changes, increasing the risk of chronic diseases, and there may be alterations that lead to nutritional deficiencies and numerous health problems. Malnutrition often occurs in the elderly population and may be the cause or consequence of the disease, and is associated with a higher risk of morbidity, premature death, increased infections, poor wound healing, decreased autonomy and quality of life, as well as substantial costs for health systems. On the other hand, nutritional interventions are effective in reducing complications, length of hospitalization, costs and mortality and in increasing the quality of health care provided. Early identification and monitoring of individuals at risk of malnutrition is essential, since once established, their reversal will be difficult. Recent studies have shown that 15% of a representative sample of the Portuguese elderly population has malnutrition and that more than two thirds have vitamin D deficiency, with higher risk of malnutrition in institutionalized elderly compared to others. For these reasons, we discuss today a NAP project that aims to ensure that the institutions providing care to the elderly contemplate the mandatory presence of nutritionists, either part-time or whole, according to the number of elderly, in order to ensure food and nutrition adequacy, as well as food safety and quality. These institutions aim to protect citizens in old age and disability and in all situations of lack or loss of livelihood or ability to work, having the duty to ensure the well-being and quality of life of the users, providing meals that meet the necessary nutritional requirements of the elderly according to their morbidity and disabilities, a situation that will only be achieved by ensuring the presence in these places of trained and qualified professionals for these functions, which we intend to ensure with this project.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u136	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are aware that today, in Portugal, inadequate eating habits are the risk factor with effects in the present and in the future that most contributes to the total loss of healthy life of our population. For this reason, it has been the political priority of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government to assess, discuss and regulate topics related to healthy food in order to provide all citizens with access to balanced, varied and diversified meals in terms of food and nutrition security. This strategy follows the recommendations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) for an integrated approach to “health in all policies” and works in a spirit with the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food. We know that obesity and malnutrition are two problems affecting the elderly population, making it imperative that the institutions providing care ensure that their nutritional needs are satisfied according to their morbidity and disability. However, and on these legislative initiatives under consideration, it should be noted that the Government launched in this Parliament the PROCOOP (Programme of Celebration or Enlargement of Cooperation Agreements for the Development of Social Responses), which already goes to the second applications, and reinforced, in addition to the protocol of cooperation for the social and solidarity sector, signed on 13 May 2018 with the representative entities of the social institutions, the money for cooperation. The competent social security supervisory services have also ensured the legality and regularity of the conditions of installation and the functioning of residential structures for the elderly, taking into account the specificities of their users, in particular in the field of food, acting whenever necessary by bodies with specific competences in this field. It is interesting to note that the previous legislation of the homes provided for the compulsory existence of specialized professionals, such as the case of physiotherapists, but that the former Government intended to remove from the homes. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u138	To this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's called hypocrisy. It is not understood that the PSD now claims that households have nutritionists when it finds the existence of other therapists who were called for to prevent loss of autonomy and rehabilitation in dependency situations, which is also extremely important for the elderly population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u139	We are well aware of the importance of these valences and the affectability of these professionals. However, it is important to take account of the financial framework, the stability of the partnerships already contracted, the financial charges established and the protocols already carried out. The Socialist Party reiterates the relevance of this matter, but considers that this is not the right time to follow these proposals. We will do so - in time and in how it is possible to move forward financially with such a measure, not jeopardizing the services already provided by all the IPSS and its financial stability and never forgetting the representatives of this area, in particular the Order of Nutritionists. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u140	I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has already been used to this position. Whenever it is called upon to speak on the importance of democracy, it makes very nice speeches on the importance of dialogue, but then when confronted with concrete proposals for the clearance of matters that are of the greatest importance to Portuguese society and to the institutions that serve it, it is totally unavailable. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of greatest importance. First, because it is known that the Portuguese population is aging, the elderly population is growing in substantial numbers, in numbers that increasingly refer to the need for more up-to-date, more professional, more relevant responses to meet their needs. This population is not only increasing as recent studies on the nutrition of the elderly population — studies by the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Lisbon and the Faculty of Nutrition and Food Sciences of the University of Porto — indicate very worrying and very serious indicators. In fact, according to these studies, 4, 8% of the elderly in households are under malnutrition and 38, 7% at risk of malnutrition. See that this value represents almost twice as many of the elderly who are not institutionalized! This is extremely serious and must, on our part, deserve an answer. I would therefore like to congratulate the Democratic Social Party on this proposal, which we are accompanying, without failing to make two annotations on this. First of all, every time politicians intend to return greater responsibilities to the IPSS, which are institutions that are already experiencing huge financial difficulties, they cannot do so with responsibility without at the same time referring to a reinforcement of the contractual funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u143	It is very nice to require the IPSS and the institutions to strengthen their capabilities, but if we do not simultaneously strengthen the capacity to respond from the point of view of funding, that is pure irresponsibility, it is only to shine before the social communication, perhaps because the institutions do not have effective responsiveness. Secondly, if we talk about food and food problems in Portuguese society, we know that we cannot only speak of the elderly, because the school population, the child population and, in general, the Portuguese population have serious problems, which are properly identified, of poor food, of obesity and of undernutrition. For example, in relation to the school population, the most recent data point to a value greater than 30% obesity, and this means that we have to refer these requirements not only to the IPSS but also to the state responses, to public education, to the canteens, to the school canteens, to all that is our responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u145	To refer only to the IPSS is not to want to respond to a serious problem, it is to refer it to others and not to assume, on our part, the responsibility we have for these answers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u146	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by welcoming the initiatives currently under consideration, because they actually reflect a very relevant concern. We know that the Portuguese population is very old and that the trend will be to continue and therefore there are also certain problems that need to be answered. However, it is important to say that these problems need to be answered not only from the public point of view but also from the point of view of the autonomy of people themselves, which has much to do with social security policies that do not necessarily have to do with the institutionalization and role of the IPSS. We know that, unfortunately, the last few years have been very serious, especially for the elderly — we could talk about the solidarity supplement for the elderly, for example — and in fact there have been several measures that have led to a deterioration in the quality of life of older populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u148	Look at the data!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u149	However, we know that the response in the area of health, particularly to the elderly population, must also be given from the public point of view, which has also failed quite a lot. We know, and everyone acknowledges, that several institutions, several IPSSs, today have a decisive role in helping several people, several populations in our country, however, this can never divert us from the one who should be the main objective, which is to give a public response to the problems that this population has and a response that does not involve pure institutionalization, but that makes people able to have an autonomy and quality of life that they do not today, in many cases. Therefore, regardless of this analysis, which is important when we talk about these matters, the Left Block accompanies the idea, common to all projects, that quality responses are also needed in relation to health, in particular, and in particular as regards food, nutrition, but also as regards other specialists who may be included here—the initiatives talk about dietists and pharmacists—other health professionals who can, in a more direct way, work to help increase the quality of life of these elderly people. In fact, we follow the idea that this need exists and must be addressed, with the aim of improving the quality and standards of life of these older and, by nature, more fragile people, and to whom we must respond. However, I also leave a word to say that, when we think about these measures, we cannot always put the bill in them. We cannot simply say that we have to increase the values of the contracts that are currently made, but we have to think about a change in the way we look at the treatment and care of the elderly population, so that it does not pass, necessarily or necessarily, only by the IPSS and by the private and to have public responses. That, yes, is a path we still have to take. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u150	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 887/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 1606 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1608 / XIII ( 3. a ), we move to the fourth point of the agenda, which consists of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 170 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by establishing 35 hours as the maximum limit of the normal working period, equivalent to the Labour Code regime of the General Labour Law in Public Functions ( PAN), 867 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets 35 hours as a maximum limit of the weekly working time for all workers ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, and amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( The Greens ) and 874 / XIII of 3. ( a ) — 35 hours in the private sector for increased job creation and replacement of rights ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE ). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By proposal and initiative of the CFP today we have decided to reduce working hours to 35 hours per week for all workers, the public and the private sector. When we talk both about technological development, digital economy, artificial intelligence, industry 4.0 to impose new attacks on the rights and the law of the jungle of times, it is an immense opportunity to demand the reduction of working hours, their fixation and compliance, respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions, their linkage with family and professional life. It will not be by chance that these matters represent one of the greatest targets of attack on the part of the employers and capital and, therefore, also the firmest and bravest struggle and demand of the workers. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, we live times marked by new and important scientific and technological advances. These advances allow today to produce more, with better quality and in less time, and this is a conquest of humanity and workers, not of capital. [[PCP applause.]] On the proposal and initiative of the CFP, today we are called upon to decide which path we want to follow. Do we want to put the potential of science and technology at the service of progress and social justice or, on the contrary, only at the service of exploitation and accumulation of the profit of a minority? Workers' rights and scientific advances are allies, they are not enemies. To do so, it is enough to put the seconds at the service of the first ones and thus serve the reduction of the time, precariousness and penosity of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u153	Science and technology are instruments for improving living and working conditions, not instruments for aggravating exploitation. The proposal for reducing working hours to 35 hours per week presented by the CFP is a measure to enhance work, but it is also a measure with great economic impact, which aims to create jobs and combat unemployment. The reduction of working hours to 35 hours per week for all workers raises the need for more than 440 000 workers to meet the same annual hours of work. This proposal combats unemployment, increases purchasing power and strengthens social security contributions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The productivity of a country does not depend on the number of working hours — if so, Portugal would be from the most productive countries in Europe —, it depends essentially on factors such as the modernization of the production process, training, the organisation of production strategies, motivation and, very important, respect for rights. ILO, International Labour Organization, clearly states that respect for workers' rights and improvement of working conditions directly influence productivity. Today, past 132 years of the first 1. the May one, is an immense current struggle for employment with rights and for hours that respect personal, family and professional life. Every day that the most serious standards of labour legislation are kept intact is one day less for the development of the country. At any time that the PS joins the PSD and the CDS to keep labour legislation intact, it is the workers and the country who lose. Today we have a very important decision in our hands: to establish 35 hours for all. The CFP will be today, as always, on the right side, with workers, their rights, progress and social justice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u154	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor to present his initiative. The rostrum is yours, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live in a pre-abundance society based on high technological productivity. However, contrary to what is expected, working conditions have deteriorated over the years and, associated with high precariousness and long working days, have led many citizens to choose between professional careers or personal and family life. According to data from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) for 2013, Portugal, with an average of 39 hours and a half a week, is only behind Greece in the ranking of the most working countries in Europe, well above the average of the European Union, which is within 37 hours. According to the same entity, Portugal occupies 10. the position on a list of 38 countries with the highest workload, working 1868 hours per year, more than the average of OECD countries. The high hourly burden has serious consequences in people's lives. Parents are subjected to a hallucinating rhythm, working all day, often in shifts, staying with little time and willingness to be with their children and their families. The rest and leisure times are less and less quality. Scientificly, we know that efficiency and productivity are directly dependent on the degree of satisfaction of the citizens regarding the working conditions offered, so the reduction of the hourly load, and, consequently, the possibility of the employee being able to have longer periods of rest and leisure, is directly associated with greater productivity. The truth is that workers from countries such as Germany, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom work less time than the European average, being these countries among the most competitive in the world, which shows not to be true that greater productivity is only possible with high hourly burdens. In addition to these facts, within the Public Administration, we have already been walking towards the implementation of a reduction in the hourly load for 35 hours, and we therefore consider it to be a basis for justice to do so for the private sector. Thus, the NAP proposes the reduction of normal working time in the private sector of current 40 to 35 hours per week. We see this measure as necessary as a way to ensure equality among all citizens...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we see this measure as necessary as a way to ensure equality among all citizens, matching the regime that prevails for the private sector with that of the public service, as well as as as as a means of valuing these professionals, giving them more rights, creating better working conditions and enabling healthier working environments. In short, in this society more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u158	To present the Greens' initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Giving expression to neoliberal ideology, which was, in fact, the guiding light in all its political decisions, the PSD/CDS government imposed its general rules and principles on duration and working time in the Public Administration. this change resulted in the duration and working time in the Public Administration from 7 to 8 hours a day and from 35 to 40 hours a week. But at the same time as imposing an increase in the normal working period for employees of the Public Administration, the previous government also directed a strong offensive against employees in the private sector, particularly through mechanisms to substantially weaken collective bargaining. However, this effort, or rather, this clear attack, and even unpublished, in terms of size, of collective bargaining by the PSD/CDS Government, has therefore had very clear objectives, from the outset, to facilitate the deregulation of working hours in the private sector, with all the consequences resulting from that with regard to the worsening of the exploitation of those who work. With the new parliamentary framework and the need to seek to value the work, it has already been possible, through initiatives from various parliamentary groups, in particular the Greens Ecological Party, to restore 35 hours a week for the workers of central and local administration. In other words, the employees of the Public Administration have thus recovered a right that had been removed by the previous Government, once again being in line with the civil advancements. On the other hand, it should be recalled that, when we discussed the shift from 40 hours to 35 hours per week to public sector workers, the Greens proposed in their legislative initiative also 35 hours for the private sector, a proposal which was finally not accepted. But the recovery of this right by employees of the Public Administration must also be understood as a clear sign of availability in order to reduce working hours to 35 hours per week for employees of the private sector. In fact, the weekly duration of work constitutes a realization of constitutionally enshrined rights, in accordance with the principle of human dignity, the right to rest and the need to reconcile working life with family life. It is recalled, in this regard, that our Constitution states that the organization of work must be done in socially dignified conditions, in order to enable personal realization and allow the reconciliation of professional activity with family life. The Greens therefore understand that the reduction to 35 hours as a maximum limit of the working time for all workers, without any reduction in remuneration or loss of rights, is not only an important step in terms of more social justice as it still represents a way of approaching the constitutional precepts, which value the dignity of the human person, the right to rest and the reconciliation of professional life with family life. But it is also seen as a strong contribution to combating unemployment. In conclusion, I would like to say that if the great argument of the PSD and the CDS to put public sector workers to work for 40 hours per week was the need to harmonise working hours between the public sector and the private sector and if today the public sector hours are 35 hours per week, the PSD and the CDS have a good opportunity here to meet this harmonisation again, voting in favour of the Greens proposal, so that all workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, are in perfect harmony with the weekly working hours — 35 hours per week for all workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector. The PSD and CDS now have an excellent opportunity to seek such harmonisation in terms of working hours. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u160	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, you work more hours. According to Eurostat, full-time Portuguese workers work more than 41 hours per week than the European Union average. But if this is the case with the legal working time, the actual number of hours spent on work is much higher. If we take into account all the extra work that is not paid, and which is our daily bread in sectors such as restoration; the various forms of flexibility in the organization of working time, which allow up to 60 hours a week, with the bank of hours; the time spent on transport between home and work, which is aggravated by being increasingly difficult to find homes at bearable prices in the centres of large cities; if we take into account, in particular, qualified occupations, the invasion of rest time, by means of the e-mails to which workers respond on the way or when they arrive at home or mobile phones and the pressure to be always contactable, the time spent on work by most workers is much higher than 40 hours. In fact, working time is not just a weekly working time. The cut-off of vacations was an increase in working time, the increase in retirement age is an increase in working time in life. And while those who have a job work longer hours, we have 400,000 people in Portugal who work zero paid hours, which doesn't mean they don't work but they don't have a job. Well, none of this makes sense. We need you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to distribute the job that exists for everyone, so that everyone can have an income and more time to live. The gains of technical, scientific and economic development, the ability to produce more with less living work must be translated into improving working conditions, in more free time and reducing working hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u163	As was said here, the 40 hours of work struggle is more than 130 years old. 130 years after so much innovation, science, technology and increased productive capacity and we are still in this. It doesn't make sense! Unfortunately, in Portugal we have many short-sighted entrepreneurs, for whom the soul of the business is to abuse as much workers as possible, now treated as machines, now treated as garbage. We have a political right which has often been shaded and echoed by this late vision, held at 40 o'clock or up to 44 o'clock, which was until 1996 or at 50 o'clock of the individual hour bank. And we have a PS which, in this and other matters, has the principle of hesitation. But there are many reasons for the normal working time to be reduced to 35 hours per week in Portugal. from an economic point of view, it is a measure consistent with the lessons learned in recent years: it is the recovery of income and the improvement of working conditions that enables the economy to improve and promote growth; it is a policy of civilization to free more time for life; it is a question of justice in the relationship between the workers of the private and the public, and it is not even impossible, since one third of the private workers already work 35 hours; finally, it is an essential measure to reduce unemployment, to promote job creation, which must be associated with the detensification of working rhythms and the distribution of jobs that exist. It's not late or early, this is time to move forward at 35 hours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u164	Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Despite the seriousness of the debate, I would like to start with an irony. It is that if we are not convinced by reason, they want to convince us by exhaustion, because today's debate is recurrent and the Socialist Party's position is known.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u166	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u167	Articles 203 are intended to be amended. o, 210. o, 211. o is 224. the Labour Code, with the exception of Article 211. or to the Left Block. These articles, in addition to the application of 35 hours to the private and public sectors, also relate to and mix with shiftwork, nightwork, with the weekly reference period. The reduction in working hours and, above all, an organization of our various times, professional, family, private, civic and political participation or even leisure, in favor of a happier and more balanced life, is a design of which the Socialist Party does not open. So we remember three or four notes, and here we leave them. In 1996, the 44-hour historical descent to the 40-hour schedule was obtained at the centre of social consultation and that is what we believe must be done, a solution shared by all because it is much more sustainable. The Socialist Party's Election Programme, on page 35 — and it should be remembered, above all, to the right, which forgets this data very easily, says the following: « Return to the 35 hours of normal working time for workers in public service without entailing an increase in overall staff costs ». Exactly this same measure is once again present in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme of Portugal, on page 78.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u168	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u169	This has been fully accomplished and has now been fully accomplished with the support of the so-called management, which for some Members. Members do not work but are used to actually reverse the violations and impositions made by the previous Government and to return rights to workers. It adds a final note, which is that there is a difference in the way between the employees of the Public Administration and the workers with individual employment contracts, because the first, the workers in public office paid and paid very expensive for five years the reduction of the 40 hours to 35 hours, with less than one hour a day, but paid because they were without salary increases during those five years. And now this agreement was reached by a Government of the Socialist Party, also in 1997.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u171	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Therefore, we do not admit the manicaust and unhealthy vision in democracy of those who argue that "to be with us is to be with the workers" and all those who do not share that vision are against them. Workers are intelligent people, they know, they know and recognize everything the PS government has done for them, they do not let themselves be influenced by speeches, what they are interested in are facts and what the Socialist Party Government has done for them, and that is in sight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u172	Mr Pedro Roque, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on reducing time from 40 to 35 hours only in its appearance is work. This is, first, an "in intra-georgency" tactical positioning as the electoral amulet flows out of its sand grains.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u175	The first theatre of operations is within the most extreme left, in which communists and bloggers diglad themselves about the primacy of the proposal in fratricated dispute by the front of the revolution and by the title of champion of the proletariat. The second is in the message to the PS electoral field, so that it is collected as a road companion of the dark right, even though its government survival has been generated in parliamentary symbiosis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u176	Man, we've lost!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u177	It is a new test for socialists: the PCP insists within 35 hours, the Block follows it closely, the PS votes to the right and responds. According to Vieira da Silva — and has been repeated here — 35 hours are a long-term goal that is not in the Government Programme. [[Protests by PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] More pragmatism not even Sancho Panza could be required in the face of Quixote's coherent teimosia, his companion of journey. And so goes the management of egos of management in the middle of the Lord's Grace year of 2018. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u178	They're just crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP argues that reducing working hours by 35 hours would require more than 440 thousand workers to meet the same working hours. This is stated by the same party that wants to reinvigorate collective bargaining but that, in an essential matter such as the setting of working hours, this either imposes without taking into account the necessary two-party reconciliation of interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u180	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u181	The only OECD country to implement similar measures was France by Lionel Jospin in 2000. Now, knowing this experience, it is important to reflect on your balance sheet. The passage to 35 hours has contributed to the loss of competitiveness of the Gaulese economy...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u182	Liar! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u183	Lie nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u184	... or, in a benevolent reading, coincided with the decline in exports in the 2000s. The export coverage rate in France fell by 105 % in 1997.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u185	What's the source?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u186	In 1997 a surplus and in 2009 85 % a deficit, exactly the phenomenon that Portugal has already corrected with the effort of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u187	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the economy is too important for experimentalisms or volunteers more or less well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u189	Ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u190	In fact, Prof. Daniel Bessa ironizes with the virtuality of the PCP multiplier miracle, and I quote: « If instead of 35 hours they had proposed 30, they would create 1, 3 million jobs, a 20 hour time would create 4, 2 million. If, to the limit, the working time fell to zero, only demography could prevent employment from becoming infinity’,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. ...or, as the British said: seeing the way for next ballout. So we say responsibly: « No, thank you! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u193	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the reduction of working hours in the private sector for 35 hours. One of the arguments is that this would create more jobs. Well, I should like first of all to clarify how many jobs they are, after all. Some say it's 230 grand, others say it's 440 thousand. This says a lot about the credibility of this same statement. It is good to remember what the consequence was when this argument was used to reduce working hours in the public service: freezing of admissions to public service, which obviously resulted in the unsustainableness of that same measure. In fact, we are still paying for this measure's unsustainability with the degradation of public services that everyone knows. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, only productivity and wealth creation can allow the creation of more jobs and the reduction of working hours. If that is not the case, what you are doing is jeopardizing employment because it is an unsustainable measure. It's good that you and the ladies. Members of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens clarify the following: will 35 hours be a condition for approval of the State budget 2019? And the PS's gonna give in? If not, what are these initiatives for? Make it clear. Is it to force your hand on the PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u195	That is called democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u196	Are they going to be consistent or are they happy to simulate that they are different from the PS and the government that support them? If this is the case, then these proposals do not go through an act that seeks to deceive workers. For the CDS, working hours and changes to the Labour Code should be negotiated in social consultation and in collective bargaining. At the present moment, in the social dialogue, a negotiation for the revision of the Labour Code, on the initiative of the Government, it was good for the PS to clarify the marking made by the Government by 6 July of the debate on these initiatives, when the negotiation is still under way. Mr. Hélder Amaral ( CDS-PP ) : Very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u197	Don't worry about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u198	Does that mean what? Does negotiation in social dialogue mean nothing? Does this mean that they are already marking the date of the discussion because they will impose these same amendments? Is the PS going to advance without the agreement in social consultation? Make it clear. Will you present these amendments without having approved them in social consultation? We are now very curious to know whether, with a government that is supported by the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, we will for the first time have a social agreement signed by the CGTP as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u199	Is it? Anxiety hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u200	It is that we would like to know whether this initiative will have the support of the CGTP, but there will also be exactly what we consider to be a fundamental condition, which is a social agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u201	We're working on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to that same conclusion of the negotiations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u203	For a second intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u204	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro : The reduction in working hours is automatic in job creation or may also pass through the intensification of work, it is true. There have been experiences of job creation and the intensification of the work of those who already had jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u205	Here are the results!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u206	That is why we need to know how we want to conduct this process and that is why the Left Block has in its project an article on the demand for net job creation. Mr. Pedro Roque, we agreed to do this in an informed manner, because there is a report that made the 35-hour balance sheet in France, which is the author of a Central Right Member of the PSD family Thierry Benoit, and which has been approved by the French Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u207	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u208	Mr President, with the tolerance that you have given the other parties, I would ask you to take another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u209	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u210	The conclusions of the report say the following: firstly, the reduction in working time contributed to the French economy creating more jobs; secondly, it did not coincide with a deterioration of the country's competitiveness; thirdly, compared with other public policies, it allowed for greater job creation; fourthly, it allowed the revival and dynamism of social dialogue; fifthly, it led to an improvement in the linkage between past work time and family time. These are the conclusions of the French Parliament and therefore the Member of the Socialist Party, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, was already the time of the Socialist Party in Portugal to do what the French Socialist Party did 20 years ago and take this step in relation to modernity and not reject the application of 35 hours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u211	As you have seen, tolerance has turned out to be much greater, Mr President. Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of a 35-hour proposal for all workers, there is a substantial difference between the PSD and the CDS and the PCP. The PSD and CDS level below, the PCP level above. The PSD and CDS have withdrawn 35 hours from public administration workers and do not guarantee them to the private sector. The CFP devoted 35 hours and the replacement of 35 hours for public administration workers and wanted to extend them to private workers. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, if we are not surprised by this position of the PSD and the CDS, of whom in the 21st century wants to impose rights of the 19th century, I cannot fail to note that, starting with Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u213	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u214	Therefore, in the face of a historic opportunity which this Parliament has to devote 35 hours to all, of the public and private, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, it is not enough to say that if you defend the rights of workers, you must practice it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u215	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u216	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: it is not enough to say that if you defend your rights, you must practice it. Once again, it is well proven that at the time of practicing, defending and the rights of workers, the PS prefers to join the PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u217	We turn to the fifth item on the agenda, which is from the joint assessment of petition No 395 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — They request the repositioning of teachers in the career, in accordance with the Statute of the Teacher Career ( Carlos Manuel Delgado Brás et al.) and draft resolution No 1610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revaloration of the teaching career. To present the initiative of the Left Block and to appreciate the petition, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor. However, I would ask the parliamentary groups to join until the end of the speech of the honourable Member. Please, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the teachers, teachers, educators and educators who have signed this petition, thousands of teachers, to claim the fulfilment of a right that has already been recognized here in the Assembly of the Republic, which is that of the counting of all time of service for the purpose of positioning in the teaching career. This means that the 9 years, 4 months and 2 days—almost one decade of dedication to public school—can not be reduced to 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, i.e., one cannot pass a rubber in 70% of the time of service of teachers and teachers. Now, teachers and teachers feel discriminated against, confronted and disregarded today. Discrimination in relation to public officials to whom the entire career will be counted, to whom it will be recognised all the time of service; faced, because the government wants to apply to teachers and teachers the rules of general careers of the public service, and this means tearing down the Staff Regulations of the Teacher Career, means tearing up the right to career, not to any career, but the right to career legally provided for in the Statute of the Teacher Career; and they feel that they are also unconsidered, because, despite the unions have submitted proposals for the completion of the recovery of remuneration, even though the unions have given attention to the financial impact of this measure, the government refused to negotiate this phase-up and, quite simply, denied the application of the Staff Regulations of the Teacher Career, denied the full accounting of the time of service of teachers and teachers. This was not an option for the Government to take, because the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution, including with the votes of the Socialist Party, which recommended that the Government be counted all the time of service for the purposes of career progression and the corresponding remuneration. Whether here in China, whether in Pluto, or in another galaxy, what this means is that the government has to recognize 9 years, 4 months and 2 days of the time of service of teachers and teachers, and the PS also has to say here, in the discussion of this petition, if you keep the vote you made, if you keep the word you gave that day to teachers and teachers and you will be allowed to disrespect the word that was given here by the PS and the other parties, when this project was presented. The Block of Left presents today a draft resolution to value teachers and the teaching career, also presents it in greeting to the demonstration that tomorrow will occupy the streets of Lisbon, from the Marquês de Pombal, of all teachers and of all teachers who demand respect, and the Block of Left here also requires respect by the teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u219	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating petition No 395 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the Left Block, on matters of revaluation of the teaching career. It is for the PS Parliamentary Group that the consolidation of a school where everyone succeeds depends in particular on professionally recognized and socially valued teachers. That is why the current government has implemented various measures to combat teacher precariousness and also unequivocally value the profession of teacher.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u222	Of course, what is at stake with the initiatives under consideration is not the defrosting of careers, nor is it even the failure to comply with the Government Programme. The government has promised and has therefore complied with the strong accession of the Portuguese. What the government does not have, what nobody has is a time machine that allows us to travel to the past. What we need is to deepen the path we have already made and build a better future for all those who make public school a great realization of democratic Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u224	The draft resolution now under discussion recommends to the Government several lines of action, focusing on the same issues in which the Government is already working. But it is important to continue on the line of progressive and dialogueal construction of solutions, to ensure the stability of change, and incremental implementation is also an appropriate method to move forward safely. To that end, we are not in favour of a hand full of tough recommendations. Anyone who exercises and lives an effective work in schools understands well that it is not advisable, it is not prudent, it is not sustainable, it is not possible to make changes to its collective functioning in a fractional and disarticulated way. This will be the formula of failure, this will be the formula that will bring no benefit to anyone. Safe change sometimes requires time and consultation. For example, the work on the curriculum will be more productive by means of a shared and progressive construction than by means of the pure and simple revocation of the curriculum or of that reference. It is this construction that is being done, that incremental method that is being followed and that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports. Only this path will allow all teachers, employees, parents and students and other actors in educational communities to contribute to the construction of a quality public school, focused on essential, truly inclusive learnings, on a path of sustainability that we cannot abdicate. It is the path that is being traced by the current government, it is the path that the PS affirms daily. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u225	For an intervention, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin this speech by complimenting the petitioners, who are, and very well, responsible for this debate. Unfortunately, time and reality have come to give reason to the Democratic Social Party. This government will be known as the one who cheated the teachers,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u227	You didn't fool anyone! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u228	...as the one who disrespected the teachers, as the one who disappointed the teachers. We saw this in the defrosting of careers, we saw this in the negotiation of the accounting of service time, we saw this in the internal mobility contest. However, reality was imposed and the teachers' time came to say enough, enough deceit, enough reliable conversation, enough arrogance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the discussion of the Budget, the PSD asked whether the Government had signed the commitment agreement without data and what would be the freezing period that the Ministry considered for the recovery of remuneration. The government has not responded. The PSD also asked what was the basic scenario of its proposal, given the sustainability and accounting with the resources available. The government has not responded either. Today, it is clear that the opening up of permanent dialogue with teachers is indeed a absence of Mr. Minister and a monologue of Mr. Secretary of State Alexandra Leitão. Strikes, protests and concentrations — this is the climate of social peace that lives in education. Lack of employees, degraded schools, obsolete computer park—this is the public education service of Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u230	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u231	But, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, don't be deluded, this government has accomplices and the accomplices are the Left Block, the PCP and The Greens. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u232	Look at this, ladies. Questionnaires, in this draft resolution. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Joana Mortagua is nervous. You know why? Because the Left Block appears to be critical to the government but, in fact, does not propose the full accounting of the time of service in this draft resolution. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u233	What is this, Mrs. Member? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This is but the hypocrisy of Mrs. Joana Mortagua. What is this but a farce from Mrs. Joana Mortagua? Oh, my God! What is this but a disappointment, Mrs. Joana Mortagua? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u234	You don't know what you approve of in the House!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u235	There is no memory of such instability, of so many mistakes, of so many successive deceptions in the teacher contest. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this scene has to come to an end and this incompetence has to end. Teachers demand it! Teachers deserve it! At the time, we said, without demagogy and populism, that we were always in favour of defrosting careers and that this would have to be done for all public service without exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u237	I shall conclude, Mr President. We said that the freezing period should be counted in full for the purpose of progress, but that without concrete data it was impossible to promise what we could not achieve. This era and it is a government responsibility. We have been serious, responsible and true, unfortunately, the government has not done so and tomorrow's demonstration proves it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u238	PSD goes to the demonstration!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u239	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I comply with the subscribers of the petition under consideration in the person of your first petitioner, Carlos Manuel Delgado Brás. With regard to the content of the petition, the CDS has repeatedly expressed its respect for the work done by the teachers, to whom this Socialist Government insists on ignoring nine years, four months and two days of effective work. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u241	Since 2005 the teaching class has been limited in the economic, professional and social aspects, in particular as a result of the freezing of careers. But not only! In addition to the long time of frozen service, which the Government wants to vaporize, it is necessary to consider the losses of service time resulting from the transitions between different career structures, which occurred in two concrete moments, in 2007 and 2009, both of which are socialist responsibility, and of what—it is impossible! - no one talks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ministry of Education must honour the declaration of commitment which it signed in November, on the ground that the State and those who represent it are definitely not good people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u242	Hypocrite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u243	The PS Parliamentary Group, in turn, cannot fail to honour the commitment it has made, when voting in favour of the Greens draft resolution, which, approved, recommends to the Government, and I quote, « (...) to ensure that in careers whose progression also depends on the length of service provided, all service time is counted for the purposes of career progression and corresponding remuneration valuation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u244	And you guys, what do you want? Your political line is the zigzag!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u245	We also remind the PS, as well as the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, of their joint commitment to the approval of the State Budget Act, and therefore they cannot ignore either Article 19. it provides, black in white, and I quote, « (...) to define the time limit and the way in which it is carried out(...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u246	That's right! But the petition does not deal with any of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, and before the amalgamation of the recommendations of the draft resolution presented by the Block of the Left, I would also like to say that, yesterday, in the plenary, the Block of the Left was accused of bipolar behavior and of charging its government partner, the PS. This brought me to the memory that Mrs Joana Mortágua, on the subject of our draft resolution, which dealt with one of the points they represent today, and whose rejection at the time accompanied, said that they only voted in favour of serious projects. In view of the content of what is clearly proposed today under the misleading title « teaching career revaluation », we only have to return the same treatment and point out, together with the manifest lack of seriousness of the Block, the enormous ability to unfold, yes, in continuous exercises of hypocrisy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u248	Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the PCP does not compact with demagogy exercises like those we have just attended by the PSD and the CDS because the most harmful options and the destruction of the public school have always had an active hand and the announcement of the PSD and CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we are discussing calls on the Assembly of the Republic to resolve only two points, one of which is the counting of the time of service in its entirety, including the prior to professionalization, and the corresponding repositioning of teachers on the scale in accordance with the Statute of the Teaching Career. It is very little of what has been discussed here now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u251	In fact, the matter under consideration has already been found in its resolution, as a result of the struggle of trade unions, following the opinion No 7 / 2018 of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which forced the Government to publish Ordinance No 119 / 2018 of 4 May. Now, it's worth a fight. The Attorney-General of the Republic has acknowledged the justice of the demands of the unions, having been defeated by the Government in order to delete the time of service prior to professionalization for the purpose of repositioning in careers. Thus, the response that could be given to this petition has already occurred through the struggle of teachers and the intervention of unions, which has indeed forced the Government to appeal to the Attorney-General of the Republic. Having said that, I would like to say that the draft resolution which the Left Block has understood to drag with the petition at nothing coincides with what is requested by the petitioners, not seeking to solve the problem which, by virtue of the struggle, has already been resolved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u252	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! I didn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u253	... but raising other matters and concerns which the CFP, of course, accompanies and which have come to put at various times but which, indeed, do not have to do with what is today, here, to be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the struggle is the real engine of transformation and living moment of claim and defense of workers' rights, the PCP leaves, from now on, a warm greeting to the great struggle journey convened for tomorrow, here, in Lisbon,... [[PCP applause.]] ... with the requirements, inter alia, of the full counting of service time — nine years, four months and two days — and of strict compliance with Article 19. the State Budget Act, the consideration of activities with students in the educational component, the consideration of a fair period of service for retirement and the fight against precariousness in education. The CFP will certainly accompany this fight, within and outside the Assembly of the Republic! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u254	The PCP is guilty!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u255	For a second intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u256	Mr President, with the same tolerance given to the other parliamentary groups, I would like to say that the PSD seems to have forgotten what it has adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, but we have already been used to making the PSD forget what it says. Now, what is worrying is that the government has also forgotten that it has to recognise, by obligation and respect for a resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, nine years, four months and two days of service, that it has to count the full time that teachers have worked in public school, for the purpose of career positioning.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u258	The PSD has forgotten, the government does not want to remember and worry - that also the PS comes here with a hand full of nothing about this problem and the project that it has approved here too. This is what the teachers, teachers and, also, the Left Block will do tomorrow at the event that leaves at 15 hours of the Marquis de Pombal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u259	There will appear a poster saying « Block, guilty! All flour from the same sack! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u260	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u261	We will remind the government that we are not pleased with the hand full of anything that the PS brings here, let us go with the teachers and teachers to remind the government that it owes nine years, four months and two days of service to all the teachers and all the teachers who will require respect tomorrow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. Let us now turn to the appraisal of petition No 390 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Calls for the amendment of the Nationality Law on the recognition of nationality originating in the children of immigrants ( José Augusto Duarte Sequeira Mendes Pereira and others). Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petitioners want, in practice, another Law of Nationality. We have tried to change the guiding principle for jus soli, but in practice, I repeat, they are asking for another Law of Nationality, because the principle is completely different from the current law. Now, when a radical change of law is requested, it is necessary to assess whether or not the previous law has advantages and whether or not it solves the problems. The existing law is balanced because Portugal has the best legal framework for the acquisition of nationality. Portugal is 2. the country of the European Union with a better nationality acquisition ratio for all foreign residents. Only Sweden is ahead of us. In Portugal, with this Law, 477 000 persons were asked for nationality and 402 000 were granted. This shows that the current Law has solved the main existing problems and that it is not a racist and xenophobic law, as the petitioners say. We must also point out that there has been a working group recently which has been able to analyse the legislative initiatives of all the political parties presented in this Parliament and which, by a large majority, rejected this amendment to the Law. They have also been approved in this Parliament — and the honourable Members. Members cannot forget this — less than a month ago, I repeat, less than a month ago, amendments to this legislation and the main amendment was precisely against this guiding principle. These amendments were further facilitated by this Law and the PSD, making these amendments possible, including the reduction of the legal residency period, the clarification of the proof of residence and the extension of access to originating nationality and naturalisation, provided that persons have been sentenced to less than three years' imprisonment. The petitioners themselves acknowledge that it was an advance, although they say it is not enough. Because we understand that these amendments are sufficient for the Law to remain balanced and not create problems or become dangerous either for Portugal or for the Schengen area, so we are not available to go any further in the amendment of this Law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u264	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the representatives of the petitioners, who are in the galleries to attend the sitting, and who have asked us not to change radically, contrary to what Mr. José Silvano has just said, but rather that we resume, in Portuguese law, the criterion which prevailed until 1981.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u266	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u267	I recall that the jus soli principle was the principle that prevailed in the Law of Nationality in Portugal until 1981. However, the petitioners are asking us to adopt in the Law a criterion that expresses an idea of nationality as a support for fundamental rights and not as a formal link which undermines the rights of many people born in Portugal. The Left Block is in accordance with what we're asked to do. Who is born in Portugal must be Portuguese... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u268	... and not to be thus deprived of its effective nationality immense people who are born in Portugal and to whom the law in force, until very recently, tied to the nationality of their parents, with which these people have no relationship. It is therefore to condemn many people to some sort of de facto statelessness. The Left Block, through a bill that presented in this House, proposed the reception of the principle that petitioners present to us. This project was not accepted — to such a large majority, that Mr Silvano spoke of, it was opposed. Between leaving the Law as it was and including a new formulation, according to which, and I quote, « Portuguese individuals born in Portuguese territory who do not declare they do not want to be Portuguese, provided that, at the time of birth, one of the parents resided here legally for at least two years», we chose to introduce this change. It is a very limited change, even because legal residency, I know - well - reminded us of this very great manifestation of immigrants who have been at the doors of this House a few days ago - is clearly prevented by the wrong functioning of the services. The Left Block therefore does not abdicate itself from continuing to beat itself so that the criterion of sun juice is fully enshrined. We proposed seven times that the law on bank secrecy be amended. At seventh, it worked! We will not fail to bring to this Parliament the principle of jus soli — who is born in Portugal is Portuguese — whenever necessary, until it is recognised that this is a just and dignified solution. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u269	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Significantly, on the day we consider this petition on the law of nationality we also proceed to the overall final vote of an amendment to the Nationality Law which has a positive meaning. It does not entirely correspond to what the petitioners propose, but it takes a significant step. For this reason, the CFP will follow in the overall final vote the amendments introduced to the Nationality Law, which have been voted in committee for some time now, in which the time required for residence in Portugal is reduced so that the children of immigrants can originally obtain Portuguese nationality. We consider — in fact, we have presented a bill in this same legislative process — that we should go further in consecrating jus soli. We defend that the children of immigrants residing in Portugal, who live in Portugal, must be able to have their native Portuguese nationality. We recognize that foreigners residing in Portugal, who do not want to have Portuguese nationality and want to maintain the nationality of their parents, must have the full rights that are recognised by Portuguese citizens, excluding only what the Constitution reserves for Portuguese citizens. We therefore defend the equality of rights between nationals and foreigners. That is what our Constitution determines and is what the Portuguese law must determine without restriction. Therefore, nationality is not the only factor of integration. It is important that non-nationals also be fully integrated into the national community.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u272	However, we recognize that Portuguese nationality must be attributed to citizens who live in Portugal and have their children here. The only safeguard we make is that they should live here. We do not argue that there should be a Portuguese nationality assigned for convenience, i.e. that it does not live in Portugal and that Portugal has children, exclusively to assign them Portuguese nationality. Not living here and not wanting to live here, you can't want to have Portuguese nationality just to access a passport. It must be Portuguese who belongs to the national community, who lives here. We make no distinction as to the legality of residence, because we recognize it—and therefore we have just presented a bill on this subject—that even the undocumented living in Portugal should be considered legal, should be legalized. In fact, in the PCP bill it can be read that one considers that he lives in Portugal someone who, being in Portugal, does not have any expulsion process on him. Therefore, we have an open concept regarding what we consider to be « living in Portugal ». Moreover, we understand that the children of those who live in Portugal according to this criterion must be able to be Portuguese of origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u274	That's our position. This is not what will be enshrined today, with the approval of amendments to the Nationality Law, but it is a positive step and, being positive, the CFP follows it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u275	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I welcome, of course, the honourable Members. Petitioners who are in the galleries, watching our work. This petition aims to change the Portuguese system of acquisition of nationality, totally inverting it, something with which the CDS, as it is known, does not agree. What is intended is the full consecration of jus soli, to the detriment of jus sanguinai, one of the most structural matters that any State can discuss. The position of the CDS on this subject is known and recognized: the Law of Nationality should not only be stable, but should also safeguard the country's most basic interests. The amendments to this Law must be absolutely careful and only when justified. Portugal is a country with a strong tradition of emigration and not so much of immigration and the consecration of jus sanguinai is, for us, absolutely priority and essential, without prejudice to, in some circumstances, if you can consecrate jus soli. And the current model in Portugal is already that, it is already a model of balance between jus soli, jus sanguini and even jus domicili. So we see no reason to change the Law nor do we see that there are reasons, in Portuguese reality, to justify such a stir. In addition, I must add that Portugal is internationally recognized as an excellent country in the field of the reception and integration of immigrants, and not only is Portugal internationally recognized as having one of the most favorable models of the world — underlining, of the world — to the acquisition of nationality, so in our view, much in the law is to ruin what is good and, as I said, is known and internationally recognized by all. Therefore, for us, the motto should continue to be that of rigour in admission, humanism in integration and facilitation as a criterion in the acquisition of nationality. This is the model we have today among us, it is a model that, as I said, puts Portugal at the top of the table on nationality and integration and is a model that we understand must be maintained. We therefore do not follow the petitioners' claim and we understand that the Law of Nationality must have stability and must establish that balance that I spoke recently between jus sanguini, jus soli and jus domicili. Only in this way are they more careful than the interests of nationals, and the interests of foreigners living here. It seems to us that moving into the Law is to ruin what is done well and, for us, that is bad, so we cannot follow this petition. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u277	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, firstly, the petitioners, their civic involvement and their mobilization to bring this petition to the Assembly, which has been a concern on the agenda of Parliament and the sovereignty agencies for decades. I would like to stress what Mr José Manuel Pureza has already said. Our history of the Law of Nationality is not a history to which jus soli is a strange figure, before, on the contrary, this was the matrix of the Law of Nationality until the 1980s and, since then, we have done the exercise—and there was an excessive exercise, on that date, to completely remove jus soli—to try to find a criterion that is balanced, mixed and that combines the elements of jus soli with the elements related to jus sanguinai. This was done in a very decisive way in 2006 and it was precisely what happened now in 2018. I would like to hear the CDS note that the current solution is balanced, although I voted now, in 2018, in a sense that it does not necessarily confirm this reading. For our part, we understand that it is a balanced solution that corresponds to an evolution, but it does not have to be seen as a tremendous or definitive solution. This was demonstrated in 2006 that we could be more clear and cover more people, through original nationality; in 2018 we strengthened this step and reduced the deadline for two years, with regard to legal residence; and perhaps it is not to exclude that in future we can come to review precisely this matter, provided that sufficient guarantees are given for, as Mr.António Filipe said, we avoid seeking birth in a foreign territory only in order to gain access to a passport or access to a nationality. What is at stake here is not this, what is at stake here are people's fundamental rights, it is the guarantee of what is the first of the fundamental rights of civic and political participation, which is being recognized as citizens. Therefore, from the entry into force of these amendments, they will be citizens of all those who are born in Portugal, their parents living here legally for at least two years. There is a deep simplification of how to prove this state, avoiding bureaucratic problems associated with the process. In addition, the matter of naturalization was also reviewed for those born in Portuguese territory, reducing very substantially the requirements of proof of legal residence and recognizing as the fundamental criterion, the first, which is that of birth in Portuguese territory. This should be the key factor in recognizing the connection to the national community, to the national territory. We are talking about people who work here, who study here, who pay their taxes and contributions to social security and who have the right to be recognised as Portuguese, such as those who, for other reasons, are soon originally Portuguese. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, noting that it has yet to be addressed and that it must be the one which Parliament and the Government must regard as a priority, that it is to give efficiency and speed to all administrative procedures, whether those relating to nationality, or those relating to the presence on the national territory of citizens of another nationality. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u279	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is often the main obstacle and that is where priority must be placed, which must put all the forms to reduce bureaucracy and costs and to ensure, quickly, the recognition that anyone with us who wants to grow should also be Portuguese with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. Before we begin the voting period, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions n. 1617 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishment of a training school for prison services ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1618 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of animal associations ( The Greens ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1619 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — A rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal with a view to its total eradication ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implementation of measures to strengthen the intervention capacity of the Child and Youth Protection Committees ( CPCJ ) ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the prevention and safety of association buildings ( CFP ), which fall to 12. the Commission, 1622 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of the High School Father Benjamim Salgado, Vila Nova de Famalíão ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Deactivation of funds from the budget of the Health Regulatory Entity ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1624 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By requalification with urgency of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Barcelos Secondary School ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, Braga ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen the professional and physical qualification and maternity equipment Daniel de Matos and Bissaya Barreto, in Coimbra ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1628 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valbom Secondary School ( Gondomar ) ( BE ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1629 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the Basic School of South Penafiel, of the Group of Schools Joaquim de Araújo ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1630 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1631 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent implementation and implementation of technological renewal at the Regional Centre of RTP-Madeira ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 1632 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works in schools of the Fernando Távora School Group ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission. He also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 880 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the popular associative movement ( first amendment to Law No 20 / 2004 of 5 June, which establishes the arrangements for supporting voluntary association leaders in the pursuit of their activities associative) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u283	I thank Mr Duarte Pacheco for his excellent information. I think all of you. Members had time to register electronically so that we could check the quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 218 presences, to which are added those of PS Deputies João Galamba and Luís Soares, PSD Deputies Fernando Negrão, Luís Campos Ferreira and Margarida Mano and the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca, who were unable to make an electronic record of their presence. We therefore have a total of 224 Members present, and there is therefore a quorum of deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 535 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Lieutenant-Coronel Álvaro Henriques Fernandes, presented by the Block on the Left and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Mr. Josés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on May 6, 2018 or Lieutenant Colonel Álvaro Henrique Fernandes. Known as Captain Fernandes, he was born in 1943 in Luanda. Active supporter of the popular and revolutionary movement, he was the liaison officer between the Command Post of the Pontinha do Movimento das Forces Armadas and the troops in Lisbon, who overthrew the dictatorship on 25 April 1974. He participated in the Operational Continent Command ( COPCON ) and was one of the founders of the Revolutionary Unity Front ( FUR ). Following 25 November, he left for exile in France, where the UN delegation in Paris granted him political refugee status. In September 1978 he returned to Portugal and was imprisoned, for six months, in the forts of Trafaria and Caxias. After his release he had to resort to his expulsion from the army before the Supreme Military Court, having been reinstated in 1983. He was editor of the newspaper In Marcha and an independent candidate in the UDP lists in legislative elections. He was also the author of four books, among them « Portugal, not everything is lost: from the Captains' Movement to November 25». The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Lieutenant Colonel Álvaro Henrique Fernandes and conveys his most sincere condolences to his family and friends. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to vote No 539 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Professor Raul Miguel Rosado Fernandes, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution is as follows: « In the history of the Peloponese War of Tucides, we can read the words of the praise of the dead, as stated by Pericles almost 2400 years ago, in which Athens affirms the form of government of its city: ‘ And it is called democracy, not only because it is managed by the interests not few, but by the majority, and because, according to the laws(... ) all citizens are equal. ’ It always makes sense to repeat this phrase in this Parliament which we call House of Democracy. But today we also read the words of this book because it was an old Member who translated them into Portuguese from the classical Greek. An old Member whose life ended at the age of 83 last Sunday: Professor Raul Miguel Rosado Fernandes. The death of Professor Raul Miguel Rosado Fernandes leaves Portugal poorer: the city, the pole where he was born and taught, loses a brilliant academic and an assertive politician and the field, who worked and got to know, loses an intransigent defender. Professor Rosado Fernandes was recognized as a man of many worlds. In the academic world he was a professor, researcher and translator of the classical Greek and was 16. the Rector of the University of Lisbon. In the rural world he had the responsibility to work the field and then took up his defense, promoting associationism, founding and presiding over the CAP. In the political world he was a Member and Euro MP of the CDS and his culture, irony and speed are unforgettable for all who have known him. He was defined as a ‘rostic scholar’, he who met in himself in an honest and humble manner, both of Portugal. in this mourning, we took advantage of the old words, spoken by Pericles in his speech, and so well suited to Raul Miguel Rosado Fernandes, who was one of whom we quoted, ‘ cultivate beauty with simplicity and knowledge without weakness. ’ Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic presents its condolences to its family, friends, students and colleagues for the death of Mr. Professor Raul Miguel Rosado Fernandes, who is a loss to Portuguese culture, associationism and political life. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] The following is vote No 545/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Clara Menéres, presented by PS and subscribed by PSD and CDS-PP Members, who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 10, Clara Menéres. Sculptor and professor, author of a courageous and avant-garde work, Menéres was born on August 22, 1943, in Braga, and left his signature in different artistic currents. A remarkable figure of the country's cultural life, he formed in Sculpture at the School of Fine Arts of the Port, where he was a student of Barata Feyo, Lagoa Henriques, Heitor Cramez and Julius Resende, having begun to exhibit in the collective exhibitions of the magnas of the portuguese school and, individually, at the Borges Gallery, of Aveiro. It was Gulbenkian, in France, dedicated itself to research at MIT ( Massachusetts Institute of Technology ), in the United States, with a scholarship from the Luso-American Development Foundation ( FLAD ) and later taught at the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon and at the University of Évora. during a half - century career, Clara Menéres created “a work of a strong inventive nature, in growing spiritual tone. ” Thus, meeting in plenary session on May 18, 2018, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Clara Menéres and addresses to its relatives and friends their heartfelt condolences. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u289	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 540 / XIII ( 3. a ) — In spite of the victims of the massacre in the Gaza Strip of May 14, presented by BE, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last May 14 was the most deadly day of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict since the 2014 war in Gaza. The brutality of the Israeli army's actions — using real bullets, tear gas and air resources — resulted in the death of 60 unarmed Palestinians, including adolescents and babies, and more than 3,000 wounded. The violation of international law and the disproportionate use of force have been constant practices of Israel's modus operandi, so much so that no Israeli has been injured from the protests that have already led to the death of more than one hundred Palestinian Protestants in the past month. These facts show that the Israeli self-defense argument has no match. The element that spurred the escalation of violence was the provocative decision of the United States of America to change its embassy to Jerusalem. The same position that your Ambassador adopted at UN Nikki Haley, who claimed that ‘Israel showed restraint in Gaza’ while blocking a request for investigation into violence in the Security Council. The deaths of the last 14th of May, which are absolutely unacceptable, call for an vehement and unconformed intervention by this House, not to contribute to the already usual international compliance. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Expresses his deep sorrow for the Palestinian victims of the massacre in the Gaza Strip on May 14, 2 — Welcomes the decision of the Government of Portugal not to be represented in the provocative act of the inauguration of the US Embassy in Jerusalem ; 3 — Condemns the disrespect of Israel and the United States of America for the resolutions of the United Nations. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u291	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us turn to vote No 541 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Of condemnation and regret for the violent and lethal repression of Israel against the Palestinian people, presented by the CFP, which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Israeli army has been violently repressing the demonstrations of the Palestinian people in defense of their national rights, on the occasion of the passage of the 70 years of Nakba and in protest against the violations by the United Nations and Israel of the United Nations resolutions on the status of the city of Jerusalem. In recent days, coincided with the illegal inauguration of the US Embassy in the city of Jerusalem, Israeli repression and attacks were even more serious and unacceptable, with the lethal use of firearms. Israel's acts of aggression and violence have been particularly serious in the Gaza Strip — an exigu Palestinian territory of 365 km2 where nearly 2 million people have survived under an absolute siege by land, air and sea for more than a decade. According to various estimates, the Israeli army was responsible for the death of over 100 Palestinian citizens and more than 10 thousand wounded since the ‘ long march of return ’ began on March 30. Only on May 14 were the Israeli army killed more than 60 people and some 3,000 wounded, including children and young people — a real massacre. This act of aggression, of disrespect for the most basic human rights, conventions and international law, has already been condemned by various governments and entities, including the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Condemns Israel's attacks that have led to the death of more than 100 Palestinian citizens and many thousands, expressing its sorrow to the victims and their families; 2 — Affirms the Palestinian people's right to recognition of their own State at the borders prior to 1967 and with capital in East Jerusalem, as well as the right to return Palestinian refugees, in accordance with United Nations resolutions ; 3 — Urges the Portuguese Government to take diplomatic measures to condemn Israel for the repression of the Palestinian people. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u293	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of 6 PS Members (Hortense Martins, João Soares, Miranda Calha, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Vitalino Canas).]] Let us turn to vote No 544 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Of condemnation and sorrow for the deaths and escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip, presented by the PS, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “At least 55 Palestinians died last May 14 because of gunshots by Israeli soldiers and more than 2400 were wounded, hundreds of them by bullets, when they manifested themselves unarmed next to the barrier that separates the Gaza Strip from the Israeli territory. The Palestinians have manifested themselves since last March to point out what they call the Great March of the Return, with the aim of claiming the right to return to their lands, being expected to end on 14th, to recall the 70 years marking the Palestinian exodus in 1948 when hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were forced to leave their lands after the creation of the State of Israel. On May 14, the United States of America inaugurated its embassy in Jerusalem, which contributed to the increase in the escalation of violence that ended with the death of more than 55 Palestinians and thousands of wounded, making this the most bloody day since the last conflicts in 2014. Since last March 30, thousands of Palestinians have manifested themselves along the Gaza Strip, having already died about 100 people. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said he was ‘ deeply alarmed and concerned about the escalation of violence and the number of Palestinians killed, ’ and the European Union and the international community spare no criticism of disproportionate violence against Palestinians. With these events, there is also the possibility of a return to peace negotiations and a further commitment is made to the possible creation of two states. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : Deeply condemns the escalation of violence and expresses its deep regret over the death of close to 100 Palestinians and regrets the more than 2400 wounded in the Gaza Strip ; Calls for the containment of all parties and for the use of real bullets by Israeli soldiers; It expresses its solidarity with the efforts of the international community to achieve a lasting peace solution, based on the mutual recognition of the peaceful and secure existence of two States. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u295	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from BE, PCP, Os Verdes and 2 Members from CDS-PP (Ilda Araújo Novo and João Rebelo).]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 546 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — regret and condemnation of the escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip, submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, Mr Secretary, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u296	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Recent events on the border between Gaza and Israel, which resulted in the death of at least 60 Palestinians and more than 2000 wounded, including children, have reached the most dramatic point since the beginning of the protest campaign against the State of Israel. This cycle of attacks and retaliation reflects a terrible retreat in the Middle East Peace Process. It is unacceptable for the protests, called by Hamas, to be carried out in flagrant disregard for human rights, using violence, to provoke the Israeli authorities permanently. Similarly, and despite Israel's legitimate right to self-defence, the excessive, disproportionate and lethal use of force by its security forces is unjustifiable. It is not acceptable for Israel to systematically ignore the UN's calls for action within the proportionality criteria. The stability of the region requires consistent efforts to relaunch the dialogue. And in this sense, the unilateral recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel by the United States which culminated in the inauguration of the American embassy negatively conditions the resolution of this conflict. In fact, the European Union must strengthen its capacity for external action in an additional effort by promoting, within a multilateral framework, a political solution that will enable the coexistence of two peoples and two states in peace and security. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1. — Expresses regret over the death of more than 60 people, including civilians and children; 2. — Condemns the excessive, disproportionate and lethal use of force by Israeli security forces; 3. — Condemns also all forms of radical and violent manifestation, including the use of civilians as ‘human shields’, in particular by Hamas ; 4. — It also expresses its concern at the escalation of violence, particularly in the Gaza Strip, finally calling for firm action by the European Union, in a framework of peaceful consultation, respecting the UN position, which contributes to a negotiated solution, to the detriment of unilateral attitudes that can further increase tension. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u297	To be a greeting vow to Israel was not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u298	It's the promotion of the killers here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u299	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the CFP we shall vote separately on point 1 and then on the rest. Let's start by voting point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on points 2 to 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, PCP and Os Verdes and 4 PS (Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions by 4 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Margarida Marques, Maria da Luz Rosinha and Paulo Trigo Pereira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u300	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u301	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u302	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will give a vote statement on the last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u304	Mr President, it is also to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on the last four of the incidents of May 14 in the Gaza Strip.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u305	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us turn to vote No 542 / XIII ( 3. ( a) — Greetings of the International and National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, presented by BE, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u306	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « May 17 signals worldwide the fight for human rights, against violence, prejudice, homophobia and transphobia, since in 1990 the World Health Organization removed the homosexuality of the International Classification of Diseases. In Portugal, although the punishment of homosexuality was withdrawn from the Criminal Code in 1982, only 22 years later in 2004 non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is enshrined in Article 13. that of the Constitution of the Republic and in 2007 the Criminal Code began to punish the promotion of hatred and to aggravate the physical aggression and homicide motivated by homophobia. In 2010 Portugal became the sixth country in the world to legalize marriage among people of the same sex. The law of gender identity is approved in 2011, allowing, in the civil register and in access to surgical procedures, the transition of trans persons and the right of full adoption to couples of the same sex is only approved in 2016. The removal of the legal discrimination of LGBTI+ people is in progress but still incomplete. It is now necessary to guarantee people the right to gender self-determination, automatically and naturally recognised to anyone else. Legislative change is one of the weapons for social transformation, but homophobia, biphobia and transphobia are not erased by legislative acts. Discrimination persists in institutions, on the street, in concrete life. It is therefore important to strengthen prevention and combating discrimination, prejudice and violence. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia and reaffirms the commitment to equal rights for all people and to combating any form of discrimination and violence against LGBTI people +, in law and in concrete life. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u307	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN, votes against 1 PSD (Miguel Morgado) and 7 CDS-PP (Alvaro Castello-Branco, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Ilda Araújo Novo, Isabel Galliça Neto, Patrícia Fonseca and Vania Dias da Silva) and abstentions from PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u308	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce to the House that I shall present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the various Members who voted against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u309	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us turn to vote No 543 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings to the International and National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, presented by the PS and subscribed by PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia is celebrated worldwide and officially recognized in several States, such as Portugal and the European Union itself, pointing out the course of combating homophobic and transphobic discrimination, recalling the day when the World Health Organization removed homosexuality from its classification of diseases in 1990. May 17 represents a mission of all states of law and therefore also of Portugal, which expressly enshrines in Article 13. that of the Constitution the prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation and which was associated to this date as National Day by resolution of the Assembly of the Republic in 2017. There is prejudice, discrimination and violence in the world about gay, lesbian, bisexual and transsexual people, either through the practice of hate crimes and hate speech, or through discrimination that still persists in school, workplace and society in general. Institutional violence and gross violation of the human rights of LGBTI people are a reality that deserves our continued vigilance and that happens in many countries. In more than 70 countries in the world homosexuality is a crime and in five the death penalty is applied. In the last 15 years, Portugal has given unequivocal evidence of legislative and civilizational advances in the defence and guarantee of the rights of LGBTI people, in particular in the context of family relations and identity. It is essential that democratic countries and intransigent defenders of freedom and human rights be an example, but that we should also be in the countries where we participate and in the international bodies where we sit, an active voice of condemnation of practices and crimes against LGBTI people. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the commemoration of the International and National Day of Combating Homophobia and Transphobia and all the people and movements of civil society who actively contribute to the elimination of discrimination and violence against LGBTI people in Portugal and in the world. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since I will have to leave the Chamber as soon as possible, I would like to ask you to anticipate the overall final vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No 683 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality admitted to State institutions or comparable ( BE ), which is set out on page 8 of the script and which presupposes the use of electronic voting. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall first vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission in accordance with Article 164 ( f ). Article 168 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 683/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality admitted to State institutions or comparable ( BE ). This is a vote which requires the absolute majority of Members in effective office in accordance with Article 166 ( 2 ). Article 164 ( f ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 168 ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by means of an electronic vote, in accordance with Article 94 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to prepare the system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, in a comprehensive final vote, the final text was clearly adopted, with 199 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u312	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u313	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u314	Mr President, I'm sorry, but it was so fast that I didn't have time to vote. My vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u315	All right, Mrs. Deputy. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, having registered 200 votes in favour (PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Greens and PAN).]] I ask Vice-President Jorge Lacão to replace me in the presidency. [[At the moment, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u316	Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1471 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2018 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 887/ XIII ( 2 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists/ dietists in institutions in the social and solidarity sector providing care to the elderly ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstentions of the PCP and of 1 Member of the PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] The draft resolution is down to 10. the Commission. We shall then vote in general on draft resolution No 1606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Existence of nutritionists/ dietists and pharmacists in IPSS ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 1 Member of PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1608/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists in institutions providing care to the elderly ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and 1 Member of the PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] The draft resolution is down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u317	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u318	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u319	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group a written statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u320	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u321	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that I will present an individual vote statement on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u322	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No 170 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u323	There's support for the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u324	We now vote in general on Bill No. 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by establishing 35 hours as the maximum limit of the normal working period, equivalent to the Labour Code regime of the General Labour Law in Public Functions ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 867 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Sets 35 hours as a maximum limit of the weekly working time for all workers ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 874 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — 35 hours in the private sector for increased job creation and replacement of rights (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1610 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Re-evaluation of teaching career(BE). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u325	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u326	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u327	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u328	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Porfirio Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u329	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u330	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 166 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41 / A42 and A29 ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PAN and 2 PS (Joana Lima and José Manuel Carpinteira).]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1394 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the construction process of the new Algarve ( CFP ) prison establishment. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote in general also on draft resolution No 1604/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the priority implementation of the new prison establishment in the Algarve region ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 607 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June establishing the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary school teachers ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u331	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u332	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u333	Mr President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-18.u334	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote, it remains to be announced that the next plenary meeting will take place on 23 May, beginning at 3 p.m. with the 15th annual debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. I wish all the Members and all the Members a very good weekend. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 39 minutes.]]
