ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, which consists of a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emilia Santos to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I refer to motion for a resolution No 71 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal by the Portuguese Republic of the Convention on the Use of Women in Underwork in Mines of Any Category adopted in 19. the session of the General Conference of the International Labour Organization in Geneva on 4 June 1935, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.o 881 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularisation of undocumented foreign citizens( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 882 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implements a system of storage, return and return of beverage packages(recoverable tara) and creates the respective collection system by incentive( 1 ). the change to the unified system of specific waste streams ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 883/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the financial autonomy of municipalities and introduces judicial measures in municipal taxes( 7 ). the change to the financial arrangements of local authorities and intermunicipal entities and 33. the amendment to CIMI ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 884 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( CDS-PP ). Parliamentary assessment No 65 / XIII was also included in the Bureau ( 3 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April, which regulates the Film Act as regards measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities ( CDS-PP ). Finally, draft resolutions Nos 1633 / XIII ( 3 ) were introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ) ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1634 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, and its maintenance without tolls ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1635 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care ( PSD ) which falls to 9. the Commission, 1636 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government fulfil its commitment in the Assembly of the Republic to requalify and reopen the Hospital D. Luiz I de Peso da Régua ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of measures to allow universal and more favourable access to the SIRCA and the guarantee of adequate animal health in the national territory ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1638 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the rapid construction of the central hospital of the Algarve ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1639 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1640 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1641 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends amendments to the form of payment of staff costs in the Special System for Combating Rural Fires ( DECIR ) ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1642 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requalification of the Adriano Basic School Olive Correia of the Grouping of Gaia Nascent Schools in Avintes ( BE ), 1643 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reactivate the Alfeite Arsenal Training School ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary measures for critical situations in air connections between the Portuguese continent and the autonomous regions ( The Greens ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 1645 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Aerial mobility strategy with an effective response to links between the continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary actions for the recovery and recovery of the source of the Mondego-Mondeguinho River ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government will then be on the agenda, which consists of the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on policies of appreciation of the interior. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: One of the main national challenges is to value the interior as a territory with endogenous resources and enormous productive potential, a territory fundamental to national development, particularly in the connection with the Iberian market. Representing two thirds of the continental territory, the interior regions have systematically suffered, over the decades, the tendency to depopulation, aging and impoverishment. It is therefore urgent to affirm the interior of the country, promoting development measures that revive and maximize its productive capacity, which value endogenous resources, which attract and fix people and businesses, measures that ensure new vitality and sustainable prosperity in the interior regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this sense that we have been working since the beginning of this governance. As of December 2015, the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior was set up, and the National Program for Territorial Cohesion (PNCT) was approved in October 2016, which is being evaluated with 74% of the measures already implemented. Among other measures, we have incorporated in the business investment incentive systems criteria of positive discrimination for low-density territories which, in recent years, have enabled the capture of 1840 million euros of private investment, generating 8500 jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have placed ourselves in the attraction of foreign investment, with specific programmes aimed at the interior, which have already attracted EUR 375 million of investment. We have strengthened support for the tourism investment of the interior, with lines dedicated to investment in these territories, first with the Valuar Programme and now with a new programme of more than EUR 25 million. In order to support investment and employment, it is essential to attract and fix population within and improve mobility conditions. That is why, last April, in the framework of the New Housing Policy Generation, we launched the Key in Hand program to facilitate the housing mobility of families who want to live in the interior, the state is willing to rent the dwellings where they currently reside, which is particularly relevant, knowing the high dependency rate that the purchase of their own home and the establishment of mortgages implies for mobility. On the other hand, we invest in the provision of quality public services to the populations of these territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u5	in health, then! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u6	We reopened 20 courts and created 43 courts of proximity, benefiting more than 800 000 people; we created a program of appeal of doctors, which mobilized 150 doctors to 173 municipalities of the interior; we kept open 400 classes with less than 21 students; we increased the offer of vacancies in higher education in the interior and, by taking this measure, in the last two years there were 12 000 students attending higher education institutions in the interior of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of the 17 new shops of the citizen, 11 were created precisely in the interior; we are ensuring the digital coverage of 1000 parish; we began to reduce the tolls on the inland roads; and — very important — three of the six collaborative laboratories ( COLAB ) that we created are being installed inside: mountain cultures in Braganza, precision agriculture in the vineyards Douro and the forest in collaboration with the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. The National Programme for Territorial Cohesion also recognizes the diversity of the interior territories and the importance of territorialization of public policies. An internal development policy must simultaneously bet on strengthening the medium-sized cities and enhancing the rural landscape; on the development of research and its application to the exploitation of endogenous resources; on the attraction of industries and services of high technological value and on the dynamisation of small family farming, in the forest and in the pasture. And this diversity is only ensured by allowing the management of public policies to take place at an appropriate territorial level. That is why the effort to develop the interior has to go hand in hand with the process of decentralization which we have launched and which is so important that decisions can be made with the proximity that the nature of the problems require. It is in this sense that we consider priority, as we have stated in the Government Programme, the increasing intervention of the authorships within the current Regional Coordination and Development Committees ( CCDR ), in particular with a view to the design and future management of the next 2030 operational programmes. Fundamental to the appreciation of the interior is also the reform of the forest, which we launched in October 2016 and which will allow the implementation of long-awaited measures, such as the implementation of the register, with the pilot project already underway, or the approval of the Regional Plans of Forest Management ( PROF ) that we will conclude next month. It is in this context that we welcome, and we welcome, the measures proposed last week by the Movement for the Interior, whose collaboration for this cause definitely helps to put on the agenda a theme that should be a priority for the whole country. It is a contribution that comes at a good time, when the National Program for Territorial Cohesion is in the process of revision and is developing the National Strategy Portugal 2030. That is why the Government will take into account the proposals put forward by the Movement for the Interior. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the interior that condemns us to a fatality, it is the lack of vision of what that territory should be. The time has come for us to create the conditions for territorial cohesion to move from a simple idea to an effective reality. We are well aware that the movement of abandonment of the interior has been for decades and that a structural phenomenon of this dimension is not reversed in a few years. But we also know that there has never been so much commitment today — by the President of the Republic, Parliament, the Government, local authorities, civil society — to take on the cohesion of the territory as a genuine national design. This requires that we deepen the measures for the recovery and development of the interior that we already have and that we continue to be determined in the definition of new policies that contribute to this objective. That is why I reaffirm here today the commitment to continue to bet on job-creating investment so as to set populations in the interior territories. It is in this sense that in the context of the reprogramming of current Portugal 2020, we propose a business investment incentive programme aimed exclusively at the interior territories to support investments of EUR 1700 million between 2019 and 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And because investment support cannot only be based on activities aimed at innovation and export, we launch a credit line of EUR 100 million intended exclusively for micro and small enterprises located inside for financing projects for the creation, expansion or modernisation of their production units. We will also review the applicable tax framework, reinforcing positive discrimination from the inside. Among other measures, we intend to ensure that companies in the territories with the lowest population density can benefit from substantial reductions in the IRC (tax on the income of the public) and can even reach a zero collection, depending on the number of jobs created. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is, in short, a time of increased ambition, but I am convinced that we are in the right direction to have an interior with more growth, better employment and greater equality and that this will and commitment will be shared by all, particularly by all and by all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u7	Mr. Prime Minister, it exceeded the time he had at his disposal by 10 %, but as we were seeing how many pages he needed to read we thought it was legitimate to let him finish. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Negrão, leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, my compliments. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin by registering the importance of the issue that has brought us here — policies of appreciation of the interior — although it is clear that this issue is not in the best hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u9	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u10	And it is not in the best hands because we all know how this government dealt with the fires of last year, in June and October. [[It's true!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u11	The neglect was manifest, the carelessness was very clear and, therefore, we hope, Prime Minister, that what you just announced is not done in the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u13	In addition to the numerous interventions the PSD has made in this House, the theme of the parliamentary journeys that we will carry out in the city of Guarda, in the next 18th and 19th June, will be that of the appreciation of the interior. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u14	We have demonstrated here all our willingness, Prime Minister, to join our proposals in order to carry out a consensus work, if possible among all the parties represented in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u16	And I am challenging you, Prime Minister, by asking you whether you are willing to move forward with concrete measures, properly timed, and with the firm commitment to compliance so as not to fail the Portuguese again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u18	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, let me tell you: it is worth more than ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that only now is that you came to the leadership of your bench, but we started, as soon as 2015, with the creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior (UMVI )... [[PSD protests.]] ... and we approved in 2016 the National Territorial Cohesion Programme, which we have already executed in 74%. Therefore, when you talk to us in concrete and calendar measures, go to the National Territorial Cohesion Program and see that we have been doing so for two years. [[PSD protests.]] Just as we were not waiting for last year's fires to start the forest reform, which for decades was abandoned, and we moved forward in October 2016. Too bad others who went before us didn't do it. But it is worth more late than ever, and here we are waiting for the proposals that are coming forward and that we will certainly debate with great pleasure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u19	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u20	Mr Prime Minister, I note that, with regard to the timing of measures to be taken, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u21	Don't compromise!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u22	This means that the government does not want to commit itself to anything about internal policies. [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u23	That is your reality, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u24	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u25	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to keep playing on a topic that is delicate and that has to do with Mr. Deputy Minister, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira. Today we have heard that Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira — and I greet him for his frankness, clarity and spontaneity of his statements to the media — was in a situation of incompatibility for at least two months as a partner-manager of a company with a 50 % share and as a member of the government. I have the information that it will have been longer, but of course I accept the word of Minister Pedro Siza Vieira. Mr Prime Minister, in your opinion, is there indeed an incompatibility? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u26	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u27	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, as the Minister himself had the opportunity to say, so he noted that there was incompatibility immediately gave up the position of manager of a family society that did not have any kind of activity and in two months exceeded that incompatibility. There is therefore no incompatibility whatsoever. As soon as it was detected it was immediately corrected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u28	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but you didn't answer my question. And he did not respond because the Deputy Minister himself acknowledged that at the time he did not know the law, which means that he recognized that there was indeed an incompatibility. I would ask you another question, Prime Minister: do you think that this incompatibility, which lasted at least two months, has no consequences, not only at the level of the law but also at the level of the code of procedure that the Government has? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u30	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u31	Mr. President, Mr. Member, it had consequences: as soon as it was detected,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... Mr. Minister immediately renounced his role in society of a family nature, and that he did not have any activity, in which he is solely a partner with his wife. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] If it has consequences at the level of other entities, only those other entities can say. As we both know, the Civil Code teaches us that the ignorance of the law does not benefit, but as we all know, no one is free from lapses! I myself, for example, have already failed to deliver statements to the Constitutional Court, because I did not know that I was obliged, and as soon as I knew, to deliver these statements. I don't know if Mr. Deputy, ever in his life, had any time. If you didn't, I wish you the greatest happiness and you'll never have. I think the Minister answered with all honesty, with the honesty of those who should not, and that is why he has nothing to fear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u32	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is too much ease in your reply to the dimension of an ethical issue like this one. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u34	The Constitutional Court will certainly take the necessary consequences. Mr Prime Minister, with regard to OPA (public procurement offer) launched to EDP, there has already been some response from Mr Deputy Minister, but the situation is not yet clear. I want to make a framework for then ask you half a dozen questions in order to better understand what is going on with regard to this situation involving Mr. Deputy Minister, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Let's get to the facts, Prime Minister. First fact: prior to being a minister in his government, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira was a member of a lawyer company. Second : this lawyer company currently has among its customers, and I don't know since, China Three Gorges ( CTG), which launched a public procurement offer on EDP two weeks ago. Third : even before becoming Minister, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira was part of the Mission Structure for Business Capitalization (EMCE) on the direct dependence of Mr. Prime Minister, in which a change to the Securities Code arose. Fourth: as Deputy Minister, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira met with the Chinese company before this launch the acquisition operation to EDP. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] Fifth fact: in addition, and also as Deputy Minister, Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira has intervened over the months in matters related to the electrical sector, particularly in the part of the negotiations. Sixth and final fact: precisely on the day that this Chinese company launched OPA to EDP, the Deputy Minister asked Mr Prime Minister to accept his excuse for intervening in matters relating to the electrical sector. Mr. Prime Minister, let me ask you three questions. First question: when Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira was a member of the so-called society of lawyers in 2017, did this society already provide services to the Chinese consortium? Second question: was this request for an apology not reached seven months late, i.e. was Mr Deputy Minister not prevented from having any intervention in this matter since the first day as a ruler? Third question: If not, what was the new fact or circumstance that prompted the request for an apology at this time and the subsequent reference to that request by you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u36	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, first of all, as Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira had already had the opportunity to declare publicly, he was never a lawyer of China Three Gorges society. He was not a lawyer of that society — point! Secondly, just as he and the CTG had the opportunity to publicly declare, the conversation they had had had had had nothing to do with OPA, nor was there any OPA launched on the EDP. Thirdly, as has already been pointed out, the legislative amendment which has been referred to was made in the same diploma where a number of amendments suggested by the mission team were introduced. But, as the list of measures suggested by the mission team shows, this amendment was not a suggestion of the mission team. This amendment was also introduced at the initiative of my office and on my own initiative to ensure that Portugal offered foreign investors, in particular Chinese investors, the same conditions as those practised in other European countries. And I remember that this legislative amendment was adopted a year ago, when there was no OPA or forecast of any OPA. Finally, as Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira had already had the opportunity to declare, from the moment he knew that the society of which he had been a partner — and from which he had ceased to be a partner before he came to the Government, because he gave up his quota — was a lawyer of a company that had just launched an OPA, and there was a legal diploma created by the former Government, which allows the possibility of the government to intervene in OPA in these circumstances, he understood at that time that there might be some conflict of interest, which should be considered prevented. He asked me to do so, and I understood, for the sake of transparency, that he should consider the Minister prevented, and that the previous interventions — I remember — had nothing to do with OPA and that he was never a lawyer from China Three Gorges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u37	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, not wanting to believe that ethical issues do not concern you, I want to ask you - and I ask you a concise answer, with the same concission of my questions - whether Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira was a member of the Linklaters lawyer society and whether China Three Gorges was a client of that society. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u39	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u40	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negro, I know three things. First of all, I know Dr. Pedro Siza Vieira was never a lawyer from China Three Gorges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u41	What about Linklaters?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u42	Second, I know, as we all know and is public, he was a member of Linklaters society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u43	It's closer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u44	... and I know more, I know that, before coming to the government, it has amortized its share in Linklaters society, a practice that I believe that no government that has exercised government functions has been careful to do in the past,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... depreciation which does not result from any legal obligation but which did because it understood that it was necessary to make it clear that it did not, nor would it have, any interest in the benefits that Linklaters had.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u45	Why are you running away to the question? Why don't you answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u46	Finally, I know, as we all know, that today China Three Gorges is a customer of Linklaters, as it is public and notorious. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u47	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u48	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, why did the Deputy Minister sell the company's share of lawyers and not sell the company's share of real estate? [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u49	There'll be some reason! [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I have three more questions on this subject. Which specifically related materials... [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u50	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to let Mr Fernando Negrão finish his questions. Please, Mr Fernando Negro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u51	Mr Prime Minister, what specific issues relating specifically to the electrical sector have been accompanied by Minister Pedro Siza Vieira over the past seven months? Second question: why did the Chinese consortium meet with the Deputy Minister and not with the Minister for Protection, who is the Minister for Economic Affairs? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u52	Third question: he believes that since October 2017 the Deputy Minister has fully complied with this Government's code of conduct, in force, in particular with regard to Article 6. o, what about conflicts of interest? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u53	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u54	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I begin with the simplest: yes, the Minister respected the code of conduct and there was no conflict of interest. [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] Secondly, at my request, the Under-Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and the Minister for Finance has worked together with several members of the Government, with the Minister of Economy, the Secretary of State for Energy, the Minister for the Environment and others, including the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and the Minister for Finance, in view of the discussion, which is open on a set of matters relating to the regulatory framework of the energy sector, and which have also been the subject of extensive debate in the Assembly of the Republic, from the CMEC (costs for maintaining the contractual balance), the clawback, the need to change taxation mechanisms in order to have a framework which enables the relations of the State, which, as you know, is in conflict with the whole sector, and the appropriate regulatory framework at the same time. This is a cross-cutting issue to the Government and, of course, the members of the Government, within the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, perform coordinating functions. in this particular case, at my request, Mr Deputy Minister ensured coordination with this debate and it was in this framework that he had meetings not only with the CTG but also with several other energy companies, because it is important to find a stable, non-conflict regulatory framework that will ensure good energy policy in our country. It was in this picture, with all normality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u55	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I still have a question on this subject: what was the concrete and new fact that gave rise to Mr Deputy Minister only at this time, days ago, to make his request not to intervene in these matters? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u58	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, has not noticed the answer, but I will repeat: the new fact was that an OPA was launched (public procurement offer), first when the Government, and consequently the Deputy Minister, could therefore have to intervene in a situation where the company that launched the OPA represented by a company that Mr Minister was a partner for many years, and although he was no longer, could raise doubts about conflicts of interest. That is why the Minister understood that he should declare himself prevented, this was the new fact. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u59	It is Mr Fernando Negrão's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u60	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister also said that Mr Deputy Minister was already intervening in the sector, and he has not answered that yet. But, Prime Minister, these issues take time to be clarified and will certainly be clarified—so I hope, for the sake of the ethics and behaviour of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u61	All right! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to address the issue of health once again. I begin by expressing my sincere condolences, as well as, I am sure, those of the entire PSD Parliamentary Group, for the death of Dr. António Arnaut, leaving a note of condolences to his relatives, as well as, of course, to the party of his whole life, the Socialist Party. António Arnaut was, and will forever be, a remarkable figure of Portuguese democracy, which left an indelible mark in national political life and, moreover, being the father of the National Health Service (SNS ), leaves it as one of the main achievements of democracy. Mr. Prime Minister, the best way to honor Dr. António Arnaut is to honor and preserve his work and guarantee all Portuguese who will continue to have a National Health Service that is sustainable, balanced, quality and accessible to all Portuguese. However, this is not the National Health Service we have today, Prime Minister. So, in order to do justice to Dr.António Arnaut, we need to do more for the National Health Service. Mr. Prime Minister, there are no doctors, there are no nurses, there are no beds. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u63	Shame on PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u64	Let us see what happened yesterday at the Tondela-Viseu hospital, with the resignation of about 90% of the leaders, what happens in Guimarães, with the lack of doctors, what happens in Santa Maria, where services have to close for lack of nurses - we had this news yesterday - because there is no authorization by the Ministry of Finance and, obviously, by V. Exa to hire nurses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u65	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. The question remains: what is the plan that Mr. Prime Minister has for all of us to continue to honor Dr. António Arnaut with the preservation of the National Health Service? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u67	You voted against what António Arnaut wanted to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u68	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u69	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão is definitely late for everything today:... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] ... arrived late inside and, belonging to the party that voted against the creation of the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... also arrives late to defend the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asks what we are going to do and says a lot is missing. It's true, unfortunately, you're right: there's still a lot left. But we will continue to do what we have done, which is to restore what is missing,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... because today we already have more 7700 professionals in the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u70	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u71	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, we have more than 7700 professionals in the National Health Service than we had when they were already missing, at the time their government ceased to be government, because today we have more than 3600 doctors we had when VV. Ex.as were in the government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u72	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u73	...because today we have more than 3,000 nurses than we had when you were in government, because today we have more than 4% diagnostic technicians than we had when you were in government. That is why, Mr President, much is missing today, but less than was missing when you saw it. Ex were in government, and that is how we will continue to do in the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u74	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u75	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when we heard him speak in the internal measures, we cannot help but remember, for example, how a few days ago in front of the Assembly of the Republic, such an expressive demonstration of the people of Beja reminded us that everything is missing from the point of view of investments. Therefore, in the face of the problem, there is no need to ask whether there is a desire for measures, as the PSD does, to clearly point out priorities. from this point of view, Prime Minister, there is a priority that the Left Block has been pointing out, and that I wanted to reaffirm, which is called railway. We cannot believe that the interior is a corridor between the coast and Spain, the interior needs capillaryness and it is necessary that the branch of Beja, like so many others, can work. from this point of view, it was essential that, already in the reprogramming of the 2020 funds, there were sufficient funds to give a minimum of dignity to railway links, which today do not offer this minimum to the populations. We hope that this path will be made, in order to be consistent with the development of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u77	But, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question about energy, in fact, following the debate that you have before — perhaps in a somewhat different register, however. Minister Pedro Siza Vieira apologized for dealing with energy issues, but we have now heard Mr Prime Minister say that he really accompanied these energy files and met with the various companies, particularly with China Three Gorges, during this time. The question I had to ask you, even because we have a new Budget to prepare and, as you know, for the Left Block this is an important matter, is whether Minister Pedro Siza Vieira had any role in the government's decision to ask the Socialist Party to change its vote on the contribution of renewables in the State Budget. As you know, that was still a little explained vote. The truth is that there was a commitment to lower the price of energy in Portugal, and this is a dossier that is still open and to which the Left Block wants to return, so, for future memory, we would like to know whether Minister Pedro Siza Vieira had interference in this dossier. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u78	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u79	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let us start with your last question, to which it is simple to answer: no, Mr Minister did not have any interference. With regard to the issue you have raised about rail, this is also a priority for us; now we cannot change priorities every day. Therefore, the railway plan is established, there is a timetable and a set of priorities has been set. The first priority was to make the necessary reinvestments across the network in order to ensure their maintenance. As a result, in 2016 and 2017 we not only reduced the number of discharges as we reduced the number of serious rail accidents. The Railway 2020 programme is the largest investment programme in recent decades for the modernisation of the national rail network, with investments exceeding EUR 2000 million either in new lines or in the requalification of more than half of the national rail network. It has two major priorities which, as we know, have to do with the internationalisation of our economy and the development of the southern corridor and the north corridor. The south corridor serves, in fact, a large part of the Alentejo, allowing the port of Sines to be connected to the Caia and serving the whole area. But we also have developments in other lines that do not have to do with these corridors, the investments we have on the East Line and the Douro Line, which are essential to improve the density of the quality of our railway service. We now need to implement the existing plans, knowing that the country does not end in 2020 and that, on the contrary, the evaluation of the former infrastructure plan is now open so that, as the Government Programme shows, we can bring it here very briefly to the Assembly of the Republic, after due national debate and the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works, and we can restore a set of investments to be developed in the next seven years, where we will certainly have to consider and decide on the degree of priority for the Beja line. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u80	Speak again to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u81	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have not changed our priorities, we want to be sure that, for example, Beja is not forgotten...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u83	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u84	...and that is the necessary guarantee. I remember that we will have here a petition with more than 26 000 signatures that mention, above all, the development of one of the most abandoned regions of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u86	But, Prime Minister, I wanted to go back to energy because we certainly have a job to do. We are committed to lowering the account of light in a country with one of the highest light accounts in Europe. As Mr Prime Minister has already told us that Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has not interfered with the decision of the past State budget, then let us talk about the decisions that await us for now. Mr. Secretary of State for Energy announced that the Government's objective is to bring the electricity price in Portugal closer to the European average before taxes. By making the accounts, this means that electricity in Portugal has to fall 6 %, that is, the government has to ensure that, when the next year's rate is calculated, this rate is low 6 %, at least, and we know that it can go further because we made the accounts and we are already seeing a 7 % savings that the government can make immediately. The Energy Sector Regulatory Entity (ERSE) made the accounts and said that when the CEA contracts (energy acquisition contracts) were replaced for CMEC (contractual balance maintenance costs) the energy revenues should have been neutral — they were contracts that replaced each other, which kept what was paid in energy neutral — but energy gained 510 million euros more. There is a differential of EUR 510 million that has come from those who pay the electricity bill. This was done by a law of the Government of Durão Barroso, published in the Government of Santana Lopes, but the form of calculation was made in the Government of José Socrates by Minister Manuel Pinho. So what the Government can do now is consider as null the office of Manuel Pinho, which could not have done because it had to be Parliament doing so - and so save at least 7 % in the bill of light. The question I ask you is whether the Government is prepared to cancel this office of Manuel Pinho and thus to save all consumers of electricity in the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u88	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, as you know, reducing energy costs is a national objective and of course also the government, as is also the development of an energy policy which bets on the continuity and exploitation of renewable energies, interconnection, and energy policy is not reduced to its price. The working group which was coordinated by Mr. Deputy Minister and which joined Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs and Mr. State Secretary for Energy will continue to work, now without Mr. Deputy Minister. at that time, when we have the work done, we will respond to what we have to propose on these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u89	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u90	Mr Prime Minister, we believe that there are much more measures besides these and we are going to have here a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which I believe will help us raise many issues that will allow the cost of energy to be lowered. The cost of energy may not be everything in energy policy, but, as you understand, in a country of low wages, in which the bill of light is so high, this is surely a problem for everyone, and therefore we have to solve it, even above all when we know that the electricity is receiving favor prices, very high. The question I have to ask you is, in fact, very simple: the Attorney-General of the Republic has already said that Manuel Pinho's offices are null. So there is no need for new measures, it is enough for the government to force the consequences of this measure to be taken. I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government will or will not withdraw consequences of Manuel Pinho's decisions being null and void. I mean, what's more important? Is it the word that Manuel Pinho gave to the electricians or is it the word of this government that he is committed to lowering the bill of light? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that this is the subject of the personality of the person who signed the office or who did not. The question is this: if the Attorney-General has considered that the office is null, in accordance with the law, to have a good remedy, which is to promote the declaration of nullity by the court. in a rule of law, the judicial authorities are competent to declare the nullities of administrative acts. with regard to the government, as you have said and as you know, because of your knowledge, the working group that was working will continue; the only difference is that you will not be able to count on the collaboration of Minister Pedro Siza Vieira, with the collaboration of the two State Secretaries who joined the working group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u93	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u94	Mr. Prime Minister, then it's settled. You will download the light account by at least 7 %! It is that if the office is null and void, if it is for the government to withdraw consequences and to be annulled, we already know that we can lower the bill of light by 7 %. Is that it? Good! Good! We wait for October to get that 7 % down and we can go even further, because we know that it is possible to go further to lower the electricity account in Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one more question about energy, but on another aspect. As you know, in the Left Block we are mainly concerned with the formation of energy prices, because we see that energy companies are getting a high, privileged income, with the detriment of the country, of all consumers, of families, of businesses and also of the state, but we are not absolutely blind to the tax problem of the energy price. He has several variants and today he wanted to talk to him about the ISP (oil products tax), for a simple reason: we in the Left Block believe that fossil fuels should be penalized and that the strategy should of course be other types of emergency and public transport, but we are not blind, as we cannot be, to the difficulties of families and businesses in the face of the prices they have to pay, above all in a scenario where there was no necessary investment in alternatives to fuels. in fact, the State Budget foresees that this year the oil barrel will be €54, €8 and it is with this account that the ISP is calculated. Now, it happens that the oil barrel is currently at 80 €, this year has not yet been negotiated under 60 € and no one expects there to be a drop, which means that the government has all the margin to lower the ISP, keeping the tax revenue. This is because, as Mr. Prime Minister knows as well as I do, the change in the ISP in 2016 was at the time when the price of the oil barrel was very low and, as it was very low, this was the way to guarantee a minimum tax revenue. In fact, it was announced at the time that the ISP would be revised according to the price of the oil barrel. Well, here we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u95	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u96	This year it seems - we are already clear, we are at the end of May, the State Budget previews the barrel at 54, 8 €, the barrel has never been below 60 € and is at 80 €. We therefore believe — and with this end, Mr President — that it is time for the government to do what it said it would do: to review the ISP and achieve the fiscal neutrality that has been promised. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u97	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u98	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the first part of the matter, it is appropriate not to rush because that is not what I said. in a rule of law, governments obey the law, obey the regulations, obey the contracts. in a rule of law, the judicial authorities must withdraw their own conclusions. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u99	If the Public Prosecutor, which protects the fulfilment of legality, concludes that a certain contract is null, I would say that it has not only power but even that it has the power / duty to promote the declaration of its nullity by its own means, which are the judicial means. It should be recalled that since the Government began its duties, the tax burden on petrol has fallen from 59, 6 % to 57, 2 % and that the tax burden on petrol has fallen from 70, 6 % to 64, 6 %, i.e. over these two and a half years, the tax burden on fuels has not been increasing. [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]] The price change does not relate to tax changes, it has to do with the international quote of petroleum products, which have increased from 35, 7 % to 41 % in petrol and 28 % to 33, 4 % in the case of petrol. last year, we identified cost convergence with the European Union as a priority. And in the European Union, discounting the countries of East, which have their own characteristics, what we found was that in Portugal we had petrol 0, 02 cents above and diesel 0, 02 cents below the European average. This is a very great effort because when we started functions the divergence was more 0, 05 and more 0, 05 cents,... [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] ...and therefore convergence with the European average is what ensures the essential neutrality of competitiveness. We should not forget, however, that we have introduced a fundamental measure to ensure price stability and its neutrality, which is the fact that we have created the professional gas oil, which has allowed the weight of the ISP for the transport of goods to fall from 38, 7 % to 30 %. This is the policy we have followed, this is the policy that we must continue to pursue and we cannot change the tax rate depending on the variability of forecasting the evolution of costs. On the other hand, in terms of forecasts, she recommended that the honourable Member, who was still so vocal 15 days ago in relation to the forecasts of the impact on the deficit in the reduction of interest, should look at the evolution that interest has taken since the political events in Italy, to see how what it predicted 15 days ago is not what it can foresee today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u100	We warned you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u101	It is likely that what we are planning today on fuel is what we cannot expect within 15 days. Therefore, more stability may be needed based on fundamental aspects and less agitation based on forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u102	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u103	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, brought us here the subject of the internal market and — record, quoting it — 'the will and commitment which he hopes to be shared by all political parties'. I greet the Government for having come to this issue and only regret that the proposal of the CDS in the State Budget to create a group to stir in all taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u104	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u105	...to create a true tax benefit status for the interior, voted here six months ago in the State Budget, I repeat, deserved the lead by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u107	Therefore, we certainly also read and hear what Mr. Prime Minister has heard from the movement of civil society through the interior and we will have the opportunity to present in this House, concretely, several measures which I hope that Mr. Prime Minister, as leader of the Socialist Party, will come to provide guidance to be approved. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, today there is an issue that is absolutely incontrovertible for the CDS and on Tuesday we have a very serious debate in this House, a very important debate for our society and I will be very clear in my question because I understand that the Prime Minister must also be clear as Prime Minister, as leader of the Socialist Party and as political: is it in favour of the institutionalization of euthanasia? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u109	Mr. President, Mrs. Mrs. Assunción Cristas, register that will present proposals on the interior,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u110	We've introduced you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u111	... that we look forward to, because, as I said, we are reviewing the National Program for Territorial Cohesion and we will have the greatest pleasure in being able to incorporate the suggestions and contributions that the CDS-PP did not have the opportunity to execute when you were protecting the pasta of agriculture and forests. Madam Member, I know you hate the idea that I am Prime Minister and not here as leader of the Socialist Party, but perhaps it was time to get used to being here as Prime Minister and not as leader of the Socialist Party. Therefore, when you want to discuss with the PS, there is a bench that, honorably, represents the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When I want to meet with the Secretary-General of the PS, as I have already told you, I am always available to meet with all the party leaders in this condition, in the Long Mouse. As you should imagine, it would be very bad for the government to engage in a debate that is taking place in the body of its own sovereignty, which is the Assembly of the Republic,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... being that the Assembly of the Republic dispenses my personal opinion to decide, as well as to understand that it must decide. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u112	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are already getting used to this very peculiar way of running away from difficult issues. And I am sorry, because I think the issue is important and you are Prime Minister, you are leader of the Socialist Party, you are political and you cannot leave people in that ignorance. My question is this: if you do not even want to take your position, do you think it is natural that you vote in this House, urgently, a matter which is not included in any electoral programme, taking it out of the NAP, and is not included in the Socialist Party's electoral programme? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u114	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u115	Mr President, Madam Member, the principle of separation and interdependence of powers applies to all sovereign bodies. You have never heard me say how Mr. President of the Republic performs his duties or not, you have never heard me say how the courts exercise judicial office, and you will never hear me say how the Assembly of the Republic exercises its legislative powers. He'll never hear! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u116	You have the floor to continue with your questions, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u117	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, of course there is no rule without exception and therefore when it comes to the interests of energy, yes, the government has already changed the sense of vote of the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let me ask Prime Minister António Costa the following: in his priority grid, the National Health Service ( SNS) — now working with so many shortcomings — must channel its resources to establish euthanasia, or not? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u118	To that even I answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u119	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u120	Mr President, Madam Member, the Government will comply with all laws which are approved by the Assembly of the Republic, whichever are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u121	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u122	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have given you several opportunities to respond and I think that the best thing is to use the Socialist Party Congress to pass your place as Secretary-General, because then, yes, you can only be Prime Minister, answer only as Prime Minister and give the place to another that may have other opinions and tell them publicly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u124	On health, Prime Minister, there are 70,000 patients on the waiting list for palliative care, the Santa Maria nephrology unit is closed due to the lack of nurses, the Nurses' Union says that there are several units in hospitals that will close because of the lack of nurses, the directors doctors of the Hospital de Viseu resign due to lack of conditions. Mr. Prime Minister, with his Government, health was ill with his government, health was much worse than in the times of the troika, say what to say about the number of consultations, say what to say about the numbers of so-called « production ». The truth is, we see, we read, we hear, we visit, and you, in this matter, I apologize, you have no way of running away from criticism. Moreover, in addition to this, Mr Prime Minister is not able to say whether, according to his priority grid, we need to strengthen palliative care or establish euthanasia, which will certainly be cheaper. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u125	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u126	Mr. Prime Minister, changing to another subject, because time is scarce, I want to tell you that if the degradation of public services, with health at the head, is a face of their austerity, the other side is the increase in indirect taxes. The price of fuels rose 10 consecutive weeks ago. You promised fiscal neutrality, but you never kept your word. I ask you whether it is now that you will revoke the overtax of the ISP (tax on petroleum products). [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u127	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u128	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, let us see the following: as I have already had the opportunity to answer, today we have more doctors, nurses and more diagnostic technicians in the National Health Service than we had before. So, or I conclude that, with more personnel, they produce less, and there we make a mistake in strengthening the means, or, then, you have to conclude that what we did was not yet enough to respond to what VV. Ex.s have withdrawn from the National Health Service, so that it may be in good condition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we must continue with this policy and not go back to its policy, because this policy has produced results: today we have more than 302 000 hospital consultations than we had in time, we have more 19 000 surgeries than we had in time, we have more 200 000 emergency receptions than we had in time, that is, we have more resources, more investment and more production. Therefore, in our time, the National Health Service has not been ill, in our time, the National Health Service is being cured of the disease that VV. They introduced him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u129	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u130	Mr President, Prime Minister, the worst blind is the one you don't want to see, and Mr Prime Minister doesn't want to see the reality in health. It is not just this Parliamentary Group that has brought this issue, but it is all those who support it — as things are wrong. You know why? Because when he changed the 40 hours by 35, he thought it would be all the same, but he forgot that later he needed to hire more people and pay extra hours. You don't do anything like that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u131	For the CDS, problems are always the rights of workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u132	...not paying people anymore, not paying overtime, growing debts, and can't have a quality service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u134	at this time, there are failures as never existed in the SNS, and I am not the one who reports them, is the whole country, from doctors to nurses, to hospital administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u136	But, Prime Minister, I did not answer the question about taxes, about the real tax collection that your government indirectly makes to Portuguese families and businesses. Will you or will you not revoke the additional ISP? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u137	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u138	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, had just answered exactly the same question from Mrs Catarina Martins and nothing again had to add to you because I haven't changed my mind in the last five minutes. Therefore, all that I have answered to Mrs Catarina Martins fully answers her question about taxes. As for the SNS, we finally realize what your big measure is: it is to restore the 40 hours of work for everyone. That's your measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u139	You have the floor, too, to ask questions, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u140	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, well, in 50 € of gasoline, 31 € goes to the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u141	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u142	in recent years more than 500 million euros have been raised only in addition to the increase in the ISP. This is a real tax draw, this is one of the notes of its colossal tax burden of 2017. Certainly, by the hand of the CDS, we will give all parliamentary groups the opportunity, without exception, to vote on the repeal of the additional ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u144	However, Mr Prime Minister, I did not want to end by asking you any further questions on matters on the subject which I brought here, in particular, on agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u145	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u146	Mr. Prime Minister, it is amazing that he has spoken so much about the interior and that he has not spoken about agriculture, which is still the most relevant activity within us. At the moment, it is time for the government to do two things: first, to hit in Brussels, so that 1 € is not lost in the funds for agriculture, in the second pillar. As you know, Portugal has a very comfortable position on the second pillar—that is where we are going to look for a lot of money to modernise our agriculture—and that value is at stake. So the first question is: how do you plan to require the maintenance of the second pillar in Brussels? Secondly, if you are to be effective in this battle in Brussels, you must set an example here. And, Mr. Prime Minister, I hear you talk a lot about territorial cohesion, I hear you talk about incentives to the economy, I hear you talk about innovation, but I get puzzled when I look at PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020) and I see that it is literally stopped. I know you're going to tell me that we're better than other countries, but the truth is there are 16 000 applications waiting for analysis and the truth is that payments are also stopped. There are EUR 1, EUR 4 billion to pay farmers. Here, as in other matters, what we have is the concern of the Minister of Finance, also to prevent investment in agriculture, which is a particularly productive investment. So when will you unlock the money to ensure full execution? Mr Prime Minister, even to finish, you visited the Autonomous Region of Madeira this week and took a hand full of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u147	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask you two questions: will you or will you not lower the interest on Madeira's loan, which today have no explanation at the level of management? And will you or will you not review the mobility allowance in air transport? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u149	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u150	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, not only did I talk about agriculture, as I even spoke about forest, which is part of agriculture, although I realized that you, during the four years in which you were Minister of Agriculture, did not realize that the forest was even concerned with its competences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the next financial framework, we will not only be struck by the maintenance of the CAP funds, particularly in the second pillar, as we will also be beaten by the Cohesion Funds. We therefore said that the Commission's first proposal was a bad starting point. We have been doing our work, we expect everyone to do their job, so that we can achieve the best possible result for Portugal, in a context that we all know in advance is very difficult. For the RDP, I can say with satisfaction that the average implementation rate in the European Union is 26 % and the implementation rate in Portugal is 40 %. But I can tell you more: we have the third best implementation rate of the RDP throughout the European Union, only in front of Ireland and Finland. We are third parties with the best execution rate and so we want to keep ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as Madeira is concerned, Mrs. Deputies is certainly ill informed because, at the meeting we had with the Regional Government, we not only reaffirmed the agreement to ensure the co-financing of the Madeira hospital, either of construction or of equipment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u151	That's not the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u152	... as we reached agreement on the settlement of debts prior to 2016 and made concrete proposals regarding a fundamental principle of justice, which is to allow Madeira to make an impact on the interest which the Republic charges by lending the evolution of our own interest rate. As you know in your Government a fixed rate of 3 375 % was negotiated with the Regional Government of Madeira. We proposed to vary the rate according to the change in the rate of the Republic, which would allow the Autonomous Region of Madeira, already this year, to save more than EUR 1 million in interest payable to the Republic, at a rate of 3 075 %. We expected that by the year we would charge only 2, 83 % and, in maturity until 2040, this would allow the Autonomous Region of Madeira to save EUR 55 million in the interest it has to pay to the Republic. So I didn't take a hand full of anything, I took a proposal and I expect the Madeira Regional Government to respond to this proposal. And I also took a proposal on the social mobility allowance, because the subsidy that was created does not finance the mobility of residents between Madeira and the continent, it simply finances the airlines. That is why this system, which was set up by its government, allowed the Madeirans to increase the movement to the continent by 40 %. Do you know how much this represented increasing charges for the State, for all taxpayers, such taxpayers who also pay ISP? Do you know how much we're all paying more to the airlines? Plus 486 percent! It was the increase in this model of allowance! And why? Because, as they created a fixed allowance for passengers, the companies obviously stopped having any incentive to lower the price, because, whatever it is, residents pay the same and the state pays more and more, depending on what the airline wants to charge. This isn't fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u153	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u154	So what we proposed to the Regional Government of Madeira was, first of all, what is an autonomous regime, which is to respect its autonomy and allow each autonomous region to define its own model, ensuring that we finance EUR 25.5 million for the autonomous region to define its own model of mobility allowance, in order to ensure mobility, without this we have the Portuguese taxpayers to finance the airlines...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u155	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u156	...which fly to Madeira or the Azores, which do not need to be financed, nor is there any reason for our taxes to be used to finance airlines. Funding for mobility, yes! Funding the airlines, no! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u157	To put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u158	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you brought to the debate the subject and commitment to the appreciation of the interior. for our part, we will already go there, but, speaking in compromises, I would like to ask you about two other important issues in which the government has made commitments that have not yet been implemented. This is about valuing long-term careers and combating job insecurity in the Public Administration. The CFP defends the right to reform without penalties from those who have 40 years of discounts. We know that the Government and the PS do not support the same proposal, but the Government has made the commitment to measures to value long-term contributions in three phases, the first of which has already happened with some delay in October 2017, and the second phase should have begun in January this year. We are talking about a commitment that the government itself has made, to eliminate penalties for workers over 46 years old from discounts, to introduce personal retirement age and to apply to workers over 63 years old. This commitment has been delayed for almost six months, and the government seems to want to delay its implementation. Now, the question is simple, Mr Prime Minister : even late, will the government move forward with the second phase of the measures still this year, not least until October, as happened in 2017? On combating precarious work in the Public Administration, the issue is no less important. With the contribution and intervention of the CFP, the way to the linkage of these workers has been opened in this legislature, but the data coming from us are worrying, from the very outset, in the business sector of the State, where the process of integration does not depend on the competition but there is no prospect of being completed on 31 May. There are workers with precarious links that respond to permanent needs in public school, in health services, in the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Educação Professional), in social security and in other public services, and who continue without knowing whether or not they will be integrated and when. in higher education and science, institutions refuse to recognize precariousness and integrate workers and the government seems to agree. There are problems with the Bipartite Evaluation Committee, which protects the issue of opinions and disengages workers who meet the requirements for their integration as well as with the safeguards. It is necessary to open competitions for the binding of workers, which should have been opened by the end of January. I insist, Mr. Prime Minister, that a permanent job should correspond to an effective bond. What measures will the Government take to ensure that this objective is achieved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u159	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u160	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the situation point of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Careous Links in Public Administration ) is not delayed because, as you know, the timetable is that it is completed by the end of this year. of the total of 32,330 situations that have been put in place, there are already favourable opinions of the different ministries regarding 11,585, i.e. one third of the candidatures already have a favorable opinion at this time. And, in these situations, 58, 5 % are already approved. So it's a process that's going on. It is complex, as you know, but it is walking and the conviction we have is that, as expected, it is concluded by the end of the year. in the same way, we are working — and, as you know, a working meeting will still take place today between the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the CFP Parliamentary Group — on the question of long-term contribution careers. The first stage, which has already entered into force, has already benefited 12 000 citizens, who have been able to see their right to reform without any kind of penalty. We are working with the objective of, as this first phase came into force in October 2017, we can have this measure in force in October 2018. This is our goal, so we continue to work in this direction. Mr President, I would also like to make a slight point: it is not true that we do not agree with what the CFP proposes in terms of 60 years of age and 40 years of service. The problem is not to agree or not, it is to assess whether or not we have the conditions for being able to do so. And the accounts that we have show that, in order to maintain the current level of sustainability of social security — it is not to improve it — it is to maintain it — if we comply with this proposal, this would mean, within a maximum of two years, the increase in social security contributions by 5 %. However, I believe that there are no conditions in the country to worsen contributions to social security by 5% and I think that politically it would be a left-wing mistake to weaken our social security system. on the contrary, I think we should continue what we have been doing, in order to diversify the sources of funding, in order to strengthen this system. This necessarily means that we cannot go as far as we would like, but the sustainability of social security is an absolutely central objective that needs to be maintained and we cannot, in any case, take risks. That is why, as we have taken a step that has already benefited 12 000 people and, of course, this year, it will still benefit thousands of others, we will take a new step next year and we will see, according to the conditions that exist, how we can approach this objective, which we do not disagree about, but which, of course, is not compatible with this level of demand for increased contributions to maintain the sustainability of our social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u161	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u162	Mr President, Prime Minister, we note and welcome this idea that in 2018 it is possible to take further steps, new steps, particularly in long-term contribution careers. It is good news for thousands of workers who have many expectations, taking into account what was more or less accepted and scheduled. With regard to precariousness, if there are approved processes, Mr Prime Minister, there is a need to make public tenders and to integrate these workers into the frameworks. [[PCP applause.]] As for the policies for the interior, this weakened, fragile and deserted interior for years and years of right-wing politics, people are right to be very suspicious, since they are heated. How many years ago — I don't even remember, Prime Minister! — we have consistently heard the governments say that 'now it is! » and never was? Oh, my God! So there are reasons to have this mistrust. I would like to remind you that you will do in October two years, in fact, Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned it, that this Government has approved the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, in which a Mission Unit was created, whose chairman has resigned, because, according to him, the support, the concrete will, which was non-existent, on the part of the Government has been lacking. How does this work with the positive balance of this programme, Prime Minister? Today, some measures are added in the role of what is already being attempted, the usual lines of credit and tax discrimination that we will see who they serve, Prime Minister. It is a concern that we have: there are many who think inside in terms of poles, we think that a wrong policy can still lead to an increase in the desertification of whole villages, forgotten in this programming. Therefore, Prime Minister, the problem is whether we are going there with tough measures, which, even positive, are unable to reverse and tackle the problems that are at the root of the situation facing the interior. It is because the situation requires structural responses: a broad range of integrated, regionalized policies; regionalisation; another forestry agricultural policy; another vision to re-industrialise the country and trade distribution networks; the creation of stable, well-remunerated and rights employment; the use and empowerment of all national resources, including mines and energy; State budgets and Community funds with strong positive discrimination from desertification-affected territories. And in this respect too, « does not beat the boot with the partridge», because we see this all throw in relation to the inside and then we know, in the news, that the European Union will cut into the cohesion funds, precisely where it hurts most — inside — and also in relation to the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u164	There's an insanitary contradiction here! Promises are made, guarantees and commitments—and I believe until there is some seriousness—but the truth is that later reality confronts itself, conflicts with these objectives of the European Union itself. in this sense, Prime Minister, this requires the fulfilment of obligations in public service, transport, communications and telecommunications, but requires investment to strengthen social functions and respond to multiple problems facing public services. There is a lack of human and material conditions in many SNS units, which led to the request for the resignation of 33 doctors at the Tondela Hospital Center.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u165	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u166	And, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not only on the inside, it is also at the Hospital de Santa Maria, considering the closure of the surgery sector. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that we do not follow the PSD and the CDS on the idea that this is worse — that is not it! — it was, moreover, significant, paradigmatic, clear and transparent that the great problem of Mrs Cristian Assumption is that of the 40 hours, which they have always proposed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u167	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u168	... but if no fundamental measures are taken to defend the National Health and Health Service of Portuguese, there will be aggravating of problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u169	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u170	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I think it has made a happy synthesis: it is not worse and we must continue to work to continue to improve. That is what we have to do and, as you say, as long as there is a way, we will continue to walk. There is a way, we continue to walk, because it is necessary to continue to pursue this path. On the inside, it is not to say that « now it is! , that is to say, « it has been ». And I have had the opportunity to recall here a set of measures that have been taken over these two and a half years, which are not promises of what they will be, are already effectively realized. And they're not vulvacious measures. The National Territorial Cohesion Programme is precisely aimed at integrating the policies of the different ministries and, therefore, was first coordinated by the Deputy Minister, then it is now coordinated by the current Deputy Minister—I believe that there is no incompatibility here, because it was not born, it does not live or work within— and it has an execution rate of 74 %. We are currently making its assessment precisely because, at the end of two years, that is, in October next year, we have to launch the second phase of this Programme and it is therefore important to enrich it with different contributions. Now, I don't have the vision that the interior can defend the village. To defend the whole of that territory, we must have a highly polarized territory ordination also by the medium cities that exist inside and with the capacity to dynamize all those regions. That is why, for example, one measure I referred to here is that of three of the collaborative laboratories are located precisely in the interior, in mountain cultures. The Polytechnic Institute of Bragança, for example, is the Institute where we have the largest number of patents registered in Portugal, produced in our scientific system. This is fundamental, because it is by valuing endogenous products that we can value the capacity of the interior to attract and set jobs, and only by attracting and fixing jobs is that we can attract and fix people. We must look inside not as the back of the coast but as the location area ideal for those who, looking at the overall picture of the Iberian Peninsula market, want to produce for the whole of the Iberian market. This is why, for example, many of the regions in the region have been developing, setting up industrial companies working in great liaison with industrial companies living on the side of the border. What is happening, for example, in the Upper Mining region, in relation to the car industry is, from this point of view, exemplary. Of course, we must continue to take structural measures, like Alqueva in Alentejo, such as the National Regadios Programme — we have already signed the agreement with the European Investment Bank — to bring water to more than 90 000 hectares of irrigation to provide the country with the best conditions for the development of its rural territory and, in particular, the low density territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u171	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u172	I shall now conclude, Mr President. And you're right, Mr. Deputies. We can try to find additional means of financing, as is the case with the European Investment Bank, but cohesion policy is essential. The defence of cohesion policy in the next multiannual financial framework is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u173	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u174	I believe that this unites all political parties in this House of the Republic and must unite all the Euro MPs in the European Parliament, as well as require a great deal of concerted action. Finally, Mr President, saying that this agreement of forces is essential, not only internally but also externally, for the defence of cohesion policy, but also for the common agricultural policy (CAP) and, within this, in particular with regard to the second pillar, which is what has to do with rural development. Therefore, all this is essential for the development of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u175	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u176	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens today come to this debate to make a direct challenge to it: it reverses the decision to have no environmental impact assessment regarding the oil research hole off Aljezur. It is not worth buying a war on this subject, Prime Minister. It is up to someone with responsibility to promote an environmental impact assessment for a project that generates serious doubts, concerns, legitimate objections and that should be studied in detail, in addition to the public participation of thousands of citizens, of movements, of authorities. The Government should not cut off the possibility of this participatory democracy too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u177	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u178	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, the Government cannot and should not interfere with the technical decision taken by the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ). It is a decision that should be respected, as well as the 50 environmental minimisation and monitoring measures that have been determined by the same Agency. I recall that the decision of the Portuguese Environment Agency distinguishes two situations: that of the research, in which the APA dispensed the environmental impact assessment, and that of a possible situation of hypothetical exploitation, in which the environmental impact assessment will be required. What is at stake — and only — is the dispensation with respect to prospecting, the dispensation with respect to possible and hypothetical exploitation is not at stake. As I have said, the aim of this Government is to give priority to a strategy for the decarbonisation of the economy, a strategy that does not conflict with the fact that we have to comply with this contract which will authorize, if any, oil exploration. But even in the framework of economic decarbonisation, oil will surely be consumed for many and lasting years. in the concrete case of Portugal, even if we reach the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, our country will continue to import 10 to 15 million barrels per year, which represents a very significant weight in our balance of payments. The possible existence of oil and its possible exploitation will have the effect, even in the scenario of carbon neutrality in 2050, to ensure that Portugal is replaced by imports weighing on our commercial balance by the use of own natural resources, on which we have no right to abdicate whether they exist and, if exploited, will have to do with the guarantee of all environmental conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u179	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u180	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I see you withdrew your understanding of the intervention Mr Environment did here the other day because the words were the same. They are, therefore, well trained. [[PS laughter.]] It's true! The speech is well-trained. Mr. Prime Minister, I want to tell you that it is not the APA that protects the Ministry of the Environment, it is the Ministry of the Environment that protects APA. And there were times when, when APA made decisions that were not correct, the Ministry of the Environment, purely and simply, made APA revert its decisions. Therefore, it is not worth pretending that this is a technical matter, we must assume that it is a political matter. And what the government is doing is trying to silence the people about a process in which participatory democracy should take place. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, if at the next PS Congress you won't make a thousand speeches on the subject of participatory democracy, when, in practice, that is, when there are decisions to be made, you cut that possibility. Their speeches and reality should « hit the boot with the stick», but do not beat. The Greens regret and will enter into the concrete struggle of the people to ensure that this decision is reversed and that there is an effective environmental impact assessment on a matter of deep concern. On the other hand, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to mention the matter of the interior, because it is a matter that we have taken as a priority of our parliamentary intervention and has already presented numerous proposals in the Assembly of the Republic. We see the proposals that we have put forward on the flow of national production, the reduction of IRC to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that settle inside, the need for investment in rail — see our commitment to, for example, the East Line, the direct link from Beja to Lisbon or the Corgo Line, for which we do not give up — the need for investment in rolling stock, as well as the proposals we have put forward on the need to have a forest as a multifunctional space or the need to preserve the environmental and cultural heritage, with an impact, for example, on the development of tourism within the country. Mr Prime Minister — and I shall finish, Mr President — has announced three concrete measures on the inside. I want to know the following: as regards the objective you have announced of appreciation of the interior, is it prepared that the next State Budget for 2019 translates in concrete terms this option of appreciation of the interior, which will mean that we will not stay by these measures, or these three measures are these three measures and then we will forget the appreciation of the interior?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u182	Finally, Mr President, the next State budget must answer what I have just asked you. I would also like to ask one last question: when does the Prime Minister think that regionalisation can be instituted in Portugal, which is crucial for territorial cohesion?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u183	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u184	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, at the end of forty years of democracy, I believe that no one has the illusion that anyone can be silenced, much less the population. We are certainly not going to shut up the people, nor does Mrs....
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u185	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u186	... neither the groups of citizens, nor the autarchs. In fact, as you know, most of the Algarve's authorships, as well as the President of AMAL (Algarve's Municipal Association), are a party that is represented by Mr Carlos César and other Members. So I haven't stopped listening to people. however, we must first comply with the law, respect the technical autonomy of the decision and take all measures recommended by APA to ensure environmental protection. In addition, we have already established the moratorium on new decisions, we have revoked the three existing contracts—or because they have expired or because they have been declared illegal by the Attorney-General of the Republic—and we will continue to proceed with full attention. I insist on this distinction that it is very important: APA only dispensed environmental impact assessment regarding prospecting. A hypothetical and possible exploitation shall be subject to environmental impact assessment. On the railway, I said a little ago, a large part of the investments. In the case of Beja, in all the rolling stock that is being purchased by CP ( Portugal Trains ), it includes the purchase of bimode equipment that can re-establish the connection between Lisbon and Beja immediately, even before any electrification on the Beja line. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u187	To put questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u188	Mr President, Prime Minister, for the State Budget for 2018, the NAP and the Government have reached an important agreement to strengthen the quality of the National Health Service : the hiring of 40 psychologists and 40 nutritionists. These measures are essential to provide responses to the level of psychological and emotional well-being, as well as to ensure the right to adequate food for thousands of users of the National Health Service. However, with almost a year of running, the public tenders for the hiring of these professionals have not yet opened. Mr Prime Minister, it is essential to comply with these measures to ensure the rights of citizens and to ensure the quality and safety of patient-centred health care. I would like, Mr Prime Minister, to inform us when the competitions will be opened and when the integration of these professionals will be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u189	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u190	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I have good news to give you. The confirmation I have is that the authorization of the Ministry of Finance is already granted, so the contests for nutritionists and psychologists may be opened immediately. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u191	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u192	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, good news, then. Another subject I would like to mention has to do with the exploration of oil in our country. After the opinion of the Portuguese Environment Agency, the country is unbelievable with the possibility of moving forward with the oil hole on the coast of Aljezur, providing an environmental impact assessment. on the same day that we were aware of the opinion, and through Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government decided to establish a moratorium until the end of the mandate, therefore until 2019 for research of oil on the Portuguese coast, no licences can be granted for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u193	The moratorium had been established since the beginning of the legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u194	Minister Augusto Santos Silva justified the decision by saying that this will enable Portugal to fulfil the announced goal of being carbon neutral by 2050. All right! We all agree. But in order to achieve the objective of decarbonising the economy, this argument only makes sense, if after 2019 the government that results from the elections also adopt this position that you now, and very well, adopt. So, Prime Minister, what the Portuguese want to know at the moment is the following: in the scenario of the next government to be socialist and the Prime Minister to be Dr. António Costa, do you undertake not to assign any oil research licenses?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u195	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u196	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Prime Minister responds by the current Government and by the current Programme. The moratorium is established and I am sure that this will enable all political parties to form their views on this matter and on the commitments for the next legislature. Regarding PS, I don't know what Mr. Carlos César and the bench will have to say right now. But by taking a bit of a political analyst, I would say that the Socialist Party will not abandon, like the other parties, taking a stand on this matter and on what it will defend for the next legislature. If, at that time, I have the honour to continue to be Prime Minister, I will certainly implement the programme that the Socialist Party will define, because I am a disciplined militant, as I have been over these two and a half years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u197	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have a word for questions, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u198	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk again about the interior and territorial cohesion. The National Programme for Territorial Cohesion had, within a short period of 17 months, a marked degree of implementation: 74, 4 % of implementation, i.e. 122 measures completed. It is appropriate to say, Prime Minister, that the appreciation of the interior has been a political priority since the beginning of the functions of this government, a programmatic imperative and a national design that we can only welcome and stimulate. The balanced development of the country, the defense of the social state and public services based on a new development model are central to the National Reform Programme. Policy is made of choices and our political choice will always aspire to the realization of people and their well-being. Mr. Prime Minister, good public policies always produce good results. This has been the case in the economy, employment, inversion of social inequalities, and so it will be with the appreciation of the interior in the pursuit of a more balanced and harmonious country, even more cohesive. But a more coherent, more competitive and sustainable interior has only been possible, and it will only be possible, with the commitment and active participation of all: local authorities, CIM(intermunicipal communities), associations, companies, universities and other actors. This permanent agenda for the interior requires and requires everyone's commitment. So it has been. We therefore welcome all the civic contributions received and we will still receive. The fair objective of reorganisation of the State, through the deconcentration of competences and public services, is an opportunity to transfer persons and competences, particularly to the interior territories, giving new scales and opportunities to local resources. It was thus with the reopening of the call center of Social Security in Castelo Branco, closed, incomprehensiblely, in 2012 by the PSD/CDS government and which has now created 150 jobs. Some close the paths of hope and employment; others open up to us! Since the adoption of this Programme in 2016, more incentives were possible for business activity and employment—more than 4200 applications in low-density territories with investments of 389 million euros; more tax incentives within IRC; and more incentives for the mobility of doctors in deprived regions, aiming at equity in access to quality health care, having been created and fully filled 150 vacancies. Mr Prime Minister, the territorial cohesion strengthened itself even more with the provision of public services of proximity in the interior, which added: more justice, notably with the creation of 43 courts of proximity and with the reactivation of 20 courts, benefiting more than 882,000 people; more knowledge, with the opening of 76 Qualifica centres in the interior, taking up, yes, teaching of adults, in good time; the maintenance of 400 classes with less than 21 students; the recruitment of students to higher education institutions in the interior regions through the increase of 5 % of vacancies; the enhancement of politicians, with more than 12,000 students enrolled in the higher professional technical courses taught exclusively in these establishments; more science, with the launch of three of the six collaborative laboratories; and more security in the interior, with the public security forces, with improvements and modernization in 49 posts of the GNR and PSP teams in the interior and more 79 teams in the operation teams in the total 3 operations. Some have made the state more distant and absent; others have brought this state closer to the citizens, making it a present state! It was also the approval of 511 applications within the Porta 65 Youth Program and the opening of 215 citizen spaces inside. Mr. Prime Minister, the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion will now be reassessed. This is the right time to do it. We are negotiating the financial framework and designing the structural funds. I therefore ask: what role will the competitiveness and cohesion of the PT 2030 public policy agenda play in the interior and in the low-density territories, knowing that the view advocated by Portugal has as its main focus « People first: a better demographic balance, greater inclusion and less inequality »? But cohesion rhymes with decentralization and the transfer of competences from the central administration to the municipalities and these to the parish, which are in a position to know deeply about the asymmetries and social needs, will also promote a paradigm shift: one of the most centralized states in Europe, which crystallizes inequalities, we will walk to a more decentralized state, soon closer, more efficient. Mr Prime Minister, do you think that it will be through a more valued local power, with new competences and regions with more scale within which we will also ensure a more harmonious and balanced development of these territories and of the people who live in them? Mr Prime Minister, we need to mobilize ourselves with ambition, for all those who live inside, in an interior full of opportunities and endogenous resources, for people, citizens, who are full of this whole Portugal that we want more and more fair and cohesive. If it's not now, when will it be? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u199	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u200	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, first of all, and beginning with Portugal 2030, I would like to say that the document we had in public discussion and which has as its fundamental objective convergence with the European Union also has another fundamental objective: we are more competitive externally and more cohesion internally. It is necessary to be able to reconcile these two dimensions, and internal cohesion is, of course, expressed in the relation of the continent with the autonomous regions, but also within the continent. This cohesion with the autonomous regions is fundamental in valuing autonomy, in valuing the principle of territorial continuity, in valuing and protecting the specificity of the outermost regions and the debate and work we have done together with these regions is very important. Again recently, together with the President of the Regional Government of the Azores and a Regional Secretary of the Government of Madeira, I had the opportunity to sign a joint statement with the French President, the Prime Minister of Spain and their outermost regions in the defence of the outermost regions in the next multiannual financial framework. This week, I had the opportunity to, as I recently recalled in reply to Mrs Cristas, at a working meeting with the Regional Government of Madeira, move on important issues, notably ensuring that there is no negative discrimination of Madeira in relation to the interest paid to the Republic and the interest paid by the Republic to those who finance it and, at the same time, guaranteeing the principle of mobility, in accordance with the principle of territorial continuity in a manner that is fair, correct and that serves the Madeirans rather than the airlines that transport them. However, this principle of cohesion in relation to the interior is also fundamental. It is my conviction, in fact, of the Government's programme that the first step we have to take is to look in a different way at the inside. If we continue to look inside with respect to the coast, we will not reverse this collective impoverishment logic that has developed over these decades. We need to know how to look inside for your own potential. And what's your potential? Its potential is, of course, its endogenous resources, very varied and very rich, from Bragança to the baroque algarvio. That is why it is absolutely fundamental for its appreciation that this important investment that we are making in collaborative laboratories, because only increasing knowledge about mountain cultures and only increasing knowledge about endogenous resources is that we can better value ourselves and thus create more wealth, which attracts more companies, that generate more jobs and that this can fix and attract populations. That is also why, even recently, when we presented the New Habitat Policy Generation, we announced a very important measure. Today, we have regions in the country where there is a shortage of labour and we have regions, particularly in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, where the unemployment rate is still above the national average. Many people would have the opportunity to return to the lands where, in fact, they have many of their roots, or simply go to a new land where, finding a new possibility of work, they could develop their lives. however, they cannot do so because they do not want to lose the house where they invested their savings, or because they are stuck to the mortgage of the financing contract they obtained to buy their home, or simply because they do not want to lose the house they are holders of. However, a very important measure is the State’s willingness to rent these people’s homes with the ability to sub-allocate under affordable income, which increases the number of properties available for public offer for affordable rent, and at the same time creates conditions for people, without losing their home, to have a real income that enables them to have a second home in the land where they can relocate. We should not have illusions: there are no silver bullets or magic veins that solve for themselves the one that is a long, long movement that has surely dragged over five decades. It is from the combination of these measures that we can have this transformation and, at the same time, we must know how to value endogenous products and relate and value the strategic position that our root has in relation to the whole of the Iberian market. Many times, we continue to think of Portugal as a market of 10 million when we truly are part of a market of 60 million. And who's closer to that market than 60 million? Just go to Bragança to know that Bragança is closer to Madrid and that Lisbon is further away from Madrid. This means that it is this proximity that we need to appreciate as an opportunity and not continue to see and devalue the position of the interior as a whole of the country and the opportunity we have to contribute to national development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u201	Continuing with the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rocha now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u202	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, last Friday, with the presence and support of the three main figures of the Portuguese State, the Movement for the Interior publicly presented the result of its activity. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot but welcome this initiative and thank all its promoters and participants. The development and convergence of this part of the territory should be considered and assumed as a national priority and raise our best political attention and weighting. Therefore, we know that the challenge is huge, but we need to be able to learn from mistakes, to do different, to do better, to build public policies that manage to overcome structural blockades and that contribute to the success of a medium and long-term strategy that will move the interior forward. We are well aware that the Government which you are leading is well aware of this and has implemented several measures which are going to do so. This should be pursued and extended, i.e. to continue to bet on a differentiated taxation which encourages investment and employment, promote the collection of new students for higher education institutions located inside, create collaborative laboratories as a means of stimulating qualified employment, implement the process of decentralisation and, within the framework of the PT 2030, provide low-density territories with specific programmes of European funds. But, Prime Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, governments are not and have not all been equal. The time and memory of the Portuguese will record those who do not conform, who do not let themselves be overcome by resignation and inertia, who invest and wager, who assume the inside as part of a territory which has the right to equal opportunities, who create a political entity responsible for their valorization, who have formulated a plan, who want to evaluate it, who want to discuss it and who want to improve it. on the other hand, the recent past brings to mind the political action of a right-wing government that has taken up this parcel of territory as a dispensable and disposable burden, which has withdrawn, which has closed, which has disinvested. The Portuguese do not forget the time when a political agenda was put into practice, removing a kind of practical guide, a practical manual for the liquidation of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, that is certainly why the PSD once again demonstrated this habit today. Proposals, measures, suggestions? Zero! Zero on and inside! Mr Prime Minister, if we want to provide the territories with a low density of future and hope, we must get them to face the challenge of investment and job creation. So I ask you: will this time be this time that the next decade will have a sustained convergence with the national average? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u203	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u204	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, we have an obligation to ensure that the next decade is a decade of convergence of Portugal with the European Union and the less developed regions with the most developed regions of our country. Only then will we have greater external convergence and greater internal cohesion. For this to happen it is necessary to align a set of policies and establish a great national consensus in this regard. From the first hour, I saw with great satisfaction the constitution of a movement into the interior by the way they were able to mobilize people with extensive experience in government action, with experience in the management of the city, with experience in universities and in the production centres of knowledge of the interior, with business experience inside, and to know how to marry these different points of view, from different political guidelines, with a view to producing a contribution that now falls upon us, all of us, to work and know how to apply. There are measures I would say, firstly, that I disagree, such as the idea of eliminating incentives on the coast and concentrating them all on the interior, because I think it is impossible for the country to sacrifice the essential incentives for regions that are motorised by the national economy as a whole to continue to be. But there are measures that I fully agree with, such as the one that proposes the transition from the entire state's returned heritage to the management of local authorities in order to be valued — we have already started it with the Valorisation programme and I think we can go further — as I think it is very encouraging to have a true national Erasmus proposal. I also agree with a set of measures that are usually not worked, but which I think are crucial, particularly at the home of IRS (the income tax for natural persons), so that there can be effective appeal to mobility within our country. We are a country with little internal mobility and the mobility that historically has been established comes in the wrong direction. Therefore, to reverse this trend, which is 50 years old, necessarily requires that there be a set of defined policies and that this is sustainable and sustained over a decade. It is in this sense that I am very pleased to see the proposals that have been put forward. We are going to work on them, with a view to reviewing the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion and in view of the next multiannual financial framework 2030, with a view, precisely, to stabilising the whole of these policies. I have interpreted as a very positive signal the fact that, corresponding to a Government appeal, a movement has anticipated by May the submission of proposals so that we can take them into account at important times in the revision of the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion and in the elaboration of the 2030 Strategy. I also consider it very relevant to the President of the Assembly of the Republic to have participated in the presentation of this report, speaking on behalf of the whole Assembly of the Republic, in the plurality of its party representation, and the fact that this movement had the high patronage of the President of the Republic, because I believe that the conditions are thus met so that the interior is not a topic of confrontation but, on the contrary, a theme of positive union, which ensures, in a lasting way, in multiple legislatures, that we must fulfill a dream we must achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u205	Mr. Prime Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u206	Finally, Mr President, allow me, with the will to have been born, raised and always lived in Lisbon, to say the following: the challenge of the interior is not, firstly, the interest of the interior, is in the interests of the whole country. If we need to grow more we need to develop our growth potential. And where else we can develop our growth potential is where it is less exploited, which is, surely, within. That is also why this must be an absolutely priority issue in the development of the national territory as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-23.u207	Member of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this fortnightly debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government for their presence. The meeting tomorrow, Thursday, 24 May, will take place at 3 p.m. on the agenda: the first item is the election of an effective member and an alternate member to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic ; a discussion is followed by the PSD marking on fiscal policies and prices for fuels ; then there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 17 hours and 14 minutes.]]
