ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority shall proceed with the opening of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to present the initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.os 867 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Sets 35 hours as a maximum limit of the weekly working time for all workers ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, and 8 / 2016 of 1 April ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 868 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the end of the moderation rates by revoking Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November regulating access to the benefits of the National Health Service by users, as regards the moderating rate regime and the application of special benefit schemes ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 869 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the implementation of a system of incentive and storage of plastic, glass and aluminium drinks ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission. The draft resolutions of 1595 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — It proposes measures to initiate in 2018 the procedures for the construction of the new public central hospital of Alentejo, in Évora ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1596 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Salamanca ( President of the HR ), 1597 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 Professor Delfim Santos, in Lisbon ( The Greens ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1598 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out works at the Basic School 2 / 3 D. Carlos I, Sintra ( PSD ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1599 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an urgent inspection of the hygiene and health conditions of the premises of the High School of Rest and the subsequent completion of the works necessary for its full recovery ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1600 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the immediate beginning of the process of revision of the model of support for the arts, effectively linked with the agents of the sector ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now enter the agenda, with the message from your Excellency, Mr President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 203/ XIII — Right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person, and their grounds, which I shall begin to read in full: « I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 203 / XIII, concerning the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person. This Decree extends the possibility of a change in gender identity, making it independent of any clinical evaluation, and starts to include minors above the age of 16 in the regime that is established for older citizens. I understand the various reasons for legislative innovation, which, in fact, covers a wider universe than that of the trans and intersex minors. In spite of this, I would ask the Assembly of the Republic to re-examine this matter at a specific point — the forecast of prior medical assessment for citizens under 18 years of age. The reason for this request is not related to any qualification of the situation in question as an abnormal condition or mental situation, which is not, but with two very simple considerations. The first is that it is important to leave those who choose the maximum of freedom or autonomy for possible recompensation of their option, at a later stage, if any. The opinion contained in the medical report may help consolidate the alluded choice without pre-determining it. The second consideration is the following: having the possibility of surgical intervention for the change of sex, and dealing with intervention which, as a medical act, always requires clinical judgment, it seems sensible that a clinical opinion may also exist sooner, right at the beginning of the decision to choose gender. Hypothetically, there could be a frustrated choice, at least in part, by the clinical trial formulated for the purposes of adapting the body to gender identity, when that is the option. What is said, and which aims to give greater consistency to a choice made earlier — providing for a medical report — is far from the position of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, which is more stringent in terms of requirements, in an area where innovation introduced is far from consensual both in society and in political decision makers themselves. It is also the legislator himself who acknowledges that the change of sex and the change of name cannot be regarded, in an intertemporal perspective, as entirely free, since it provides for a judicial decision for a second amendment. On the other hand, and as in previous requests addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, as well as to the present diploma, I did not regret—as I will never do—in the assessment of my personal position, which is identical to that of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. Therefore, and so that the Assembly of the Republic may consider the inclusion of a medical report prior to the decision on gender identity before the age of 18 years, I return, without promulgation, Decree No 203/ XIII on the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person. Belem Palace, May 9, 2018. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on a regular and timely basis, the matter will be assessed for the purpose of scheduling and re-evaluation of the Decree. The agenda will, of course, take place at the Conference of Leaders. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the joint debate, by the authoritative marking of the CDS-PP, of draft resolutions Nos 1476 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force, ensuring their effective existence and use due by means of a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), and 1477 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the protection and promotion of leases, in particular the measures necessary for the establishment of the legal system of income insurance ( CDS-PP ) of Bill No 821 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — creates an incentive for housing leases by reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of real estate income resulting from lease contracts for housing, by amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( CDS-PP ), in general, and of draft resolutions No 1582/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the processes of alienation from the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of State Buildings ( CDS-PP ), 1583/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, undertake the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings belonging to Colina de Santana in Lisbon, so that they may be used for housing, in a programme to be created, or already existing, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, mainly for young people and middle class families ( CDS-PP ), 1584 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government raise the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, with a view to establishing a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of rental properties for moderate housing purposes ( CDS-PP ), 1586XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an income insurance ( PSD ), 1588 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a lease allowance in situations of sudden fragility ( PSD ), and 1591 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease ( PSD ). To present the initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The CDS is the first party to schedule a legislative debate on housing, presenting a set of initiatives aimed at promoting rent, making it more attractive and at moderate prices. I should like to make a prior call to what is expected of all of us in this debate, today and here, by all Portuguese, and which can be summed up in two words: wisdom and justice. Housing is, together with the National Health Service and access to education, a right universally enshrined in our Constitution and is an evidence, unfortunately necessary, to say that access to housing is at this time one of the themes that most concerns the Portuguese. Having said this, it should be noted that this debate will only be positive and fruitful with memory and recovering, without another filter other than that of truth, the recent lessons of our history. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u5	The CDS brings to this debate a bill and five draft resolutions. We present a bill that provides for the reduction of the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of the real estate income resulting from lease contracts for housing, with this progressive reduction in relation to longer contracts. The current rate of IRS for residential income is 28 %, which is clearly excessive. The CDS therefore proposes that this rate be gradually reduced for housing leases: for contracts of one to five years, a rate of 23 % should apply; for contracts between five and eight years, a rate of 15 %; and for contracts of eight or more years, a rate of 12 %. We understand that a gradual reduction in the autonomous rate of IRS applicable to residential income, taking into account the duration of contracts, is a way of creating an incentive for owners to bet on the conclusion of long-term lease contracts. We also present a project that recommends the creation of a legal income insurance scheme for all housing leases. The creation of income insurance is a measure that we consider very important and already envisaged in the reform of urban lease and in the National Habitat Strategy ( ENH ), approved by the former Government CDS-PP / PSD. This mechanism will allow owners to place their properties on the lease market with greater guarantees and security. It is clearly a stimulus of confidence in the lease market which frees tenants from the provision of bonds and creditors. We also present an initiative that recommends to the Government the modification of the building reserve fund system, to ensure effective existence and proper use, through a supervision that will be carried out by the municipalities, which does not happen in practice and which makes the rehabilitation of buildings impossible. As for state buildings, we present an initiative which wants this Parliament to be duly informed about the processes for the alienation of the National Building Rehabilitation Fund ( FNRE ). Until 30 March of each year, the services, bodies and public entities must send information to that management company, indicating the buildings covered and in a position of availability, and a report should therefore be sent to the Assembly of the Republic, every four months, containing the information necessary to assess how many buildings the State places for housing rent at moderate costs. The other two initiatives we are presenting here aim to promote the increase in the offer of rent for housing in the city of Lisbon. The public offer of housing mainly focuses on social housing for a more disadvantaged population. Outside this area, the percentage of public housing is worryingly low in Lisbon and in the country. It is the CSD's understanding of the State, central and local, to establish policies and programmes that increase this supply and these support also for the middle class, primarily for young people and families with children, and in particular when the market is not giving a satisfactory response, especially in the central areas of cities. We know that the State is a great owner and has numerous real estate that can and should be placed at moderate prices. This should go through the rehabilitation of the buildings for housing and construction in public areas still available. If these measures are implemented, we will certainly have an increase in housing supply, the development of the lease market, price moderation and the envitalisation of the centres of large cities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The involvement of the authorities is fundamental to solving the problem of access to housing. in the specific case of Lisbon, the CDS has made its contribution to the municipal level, in particular with a proposal that the land of the former Popular Fair be made available for rental at moderate prices, to mitigate the problem of housing to the middle class. following this proposal, we asked the government to collect the heritage of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, so that it is destined for projects and housing programs with moderate incomes. We recall that the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon is the second largest owner of the capital and is under the care of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. As we believe that the Government must create conditions, together with the City Hall of Lisbon, for the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings that integrate the Santana Hill, and that these same buildings can also be used in the same social housing policy, even though with the concern of maintaining nearby health equipment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to remember the problems we had in Portugal before the amendments to the Urban Rent Act, made in 2012 by the previous Government. We had a lease market with little housing supply; very built-up returned and abandoned in the centers of the big cities; a high indebtedness of the families to the purchase of their own home; great limitations in terms of social and labor mobility, due to difficulties in the offer of rent; a total absence of municipal housing policies for the middle class by the municipalities; a depressed economy at the level of civil construction; and, the most serious, the permanent freezing of incomes, which made the owners, in many cases, real agents of the social action that fell to the state. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Things have changed, some of these problems have been solved and new problems have appeared. Today, all entities linked to the sector — landlords, tenants, real estate agents, investors — have expressed deep concern about the instability that is being created by the government, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP. in recent days, the way in which the so-called "Inhabitation Base Law" has been presented, as well as the various proposals of the "rested left", which until the repeal of the 2012 Law require, caused concern and doubt throughout the country. It would be good if this debate were to be quiet and secure. These «rested left» prepare for, over 40 years, returning to the times of the Prec of Gonçalvism, with a difference: we are facing an ongoing reactionary movement that attacks the protection of property, property, which is constitutionally guaranteed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When there are returned public buildings, it is unacceptable for the State to think of the requirement of private homes. It's appropriate to say: do as I say, don't look at what I do! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Prime Minister Dr. António Costa said this week that «the Law of Rents is unfair and inhumane ». And the questions are the following: how did Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, manage to live with this Law for almost three years? Why didn't you change it sooner or why didn't you end up repudiating it? And the answer is very simple! The law is balanced. And Mr Prime Minister says: "Should the gentlemen do the social action that is the responsibility of the State? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister answered: "Of course not! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And I ask: then, in practice, the changes that the «lefts bent» made to the Law in 2017, and the changes they want to make now do not mean we go back and for the freezing of income? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to the State to protect the right of all to a decent housing, at moderate and affordable prices, and not to the lords. The 'lefts down' want to return to the policy of income freezes that led the country to the situation we all know. This is going back! They do not count on us to harm those who meet and thus break the confidence of the market. what we need, tenants and landlords, is a lease market that offers an effective, concrete and accessible response to our needs and greater speed of justice in conflict resolution. Let us be clear that the 'lefts down' are the main ones responsible for the instability they are generating in the lease market, requiring a withdrawal from the same market. In other words, uncertainty and uncertainty about the future of the lease are causing a reduction in the number of houses available on the market. You're responsible! I have already said, and I repeat: it is for the State to ensure compliance with the constitutional right of all to a decent housing; it is for the State to promote protection measures for the most deprived, particularly as regards housing; it is for the State to promote and support the rehabilitation and regeneration of our cities. All this is the mission of the State, it is not the mission of the gentlemen or of the individuals. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what the united Lefts want to hide, the Law of 2012 is a positive law and of which we are proud, but obviously it does not resolve all the issues, especially the new problems brought by the pressure of international real estate investment. For new problems, new solutions are required and that is what we are doing here today. in this sense, the CDS presents in this House, constructively, several initiatives: the creation of the legal system of income insurance; new tax incentives for long-term contracts; the use of state buildings for moderate housing purposes; the supervision of reserve funds of buildings and the use of the real estate of Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon and the state, in the capital, for the increase of housing available in the lease market. Where there is freedom there must be clarity! Clarity of laws and rights and duties, partly. Having this clarity, the existence of justice is safeguarded. What brings us to this debate today are situations that, in the face of a new context, justify the presentation of new proposals and new answers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u6	Four Mrs have signed up. Members, to request clarification, and the indication that the Bureau has is that Mr João Gonçalves Pereira will answer the two groups. Therefore, Mr Renato Sampaio has already spoken of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, housing is a constitutionally enshrined right but successive governments have not treated as well as this and some, like the previous one, have treated it very badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u9	It was therefore the authorities who, over time, replaced themselves with central power, sought to respond to this problem in order to give more dignity and quality of life to their monks. This Government, the Government of the Socialist Party, placed on the political agenda a set of proposals for a new generation of housing policies and the PS Parliamentary Group, when presenting a proposal for a basic housing law, gave an important impetus that includes a hat of structural proposals in this area. The CDS agreed, by presenting a proposal to lower the IRS from income. The CDS confessed today, here, its bad law, when it came to invective the government, in the sense that it took a long time to alter it. Welcome to the rental theme! Welcome with these proposals and with the theme of income insurance! It is important even to remember that this was a promise that came, in fact, from the time of the Rabbit Pass Government, where Mrs.Crist Assumption, current CDS leader, was Minister and had the housing folder, but instead of an income law, preferred to make a lay-off law. We wonder whether or not the CDS now says that the wagering of various governments in measures to encourage the purchase of their own homes, to the detriment of incentives to the lease market, has caused an increase in the indebtedness of families and a lack of housing solutions more tailored to the needs of the population, particularly young people. Indeed, we do not perceive this analysis of the CDS, when, through the amendments to the New Urban Rent Scheme by the former Minister of Assumption Cristos, came to deprotect the tenants, causing serious social consequences that we currently have in our hands. So, shouldn't you have lent money to people to buy your own house? Oh, my God! But on the other hand, the lodgers were unprotected. Would it be underlying these amendments of the Law that more people had emigrated to search for a house abroad, thus continuing the desertification of the main cities of the country? Oh, my God! We are always in time to catalyze past mistakes and the 2012 CDS comes, in 2018, to redeem itself before the Portuguese. The PS Parliamentary Group, when presenting the basic housing law, is receptive to improve its instrument, counting on all parliamentary groups to once again correct past errors and build bridges for the future. The question I would like to ask is the following: with what criteria and with what justification the CDS comes to lower the rate of IRS in one year contracts, continuing the unprotected tenants and being able to be cleared at the end of another day? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u10	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, today we have been called to discuss the issue of renting again. In fact, it is a matter which, as we have already seen, ideologically divides PSD and CDS from the left-wing majority that we have in Parliament but which is of great concern to the Portuguese. And I mean all the Portuguese, without exception, that we represent in this House of Democracy. It is never too much to remember that it was necessary to have the courage and reformist determination to make the 2012 changes when we stimulated the urban lease market. A market which was crystallized due to the freezing of incomes that prevented the landlords from freely having what belonged to them. And now what does the left do? Freeze that dynamism again! That's what we're watching! [[PSD applause.]] A left that boasts itself of defending the right to housing enshrined in the Constitution, but which insists on imposing upon the lords that comply with the social policies which do not suit the State to execute by force; a left that defends a minimal state and gives to the private the functions of the State itself; a left that is subjected to radical parties, for pure political survival. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if anything else was involved, being the state's largest owner, why didn't the same left suggest that the state should set an example, starting by recovering its buildings and referring them to public housing policies that now so much should be promoted? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reflection for the Portuguese! the PSD has and remains consistency: to defend the balance between the right to housing and the right to private property; to defend harmony between the principles of proportionality and the principles of equality and trust; and to defend an integrated public policy to promote urban rehabilitation, housing rent and the qualification of housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, as in the past, the PSD comes to debate, in the name of stability and security, to defend the landlords, without forgetting, as it has never done, the most vulnerable tenants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u12	That was funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u13	And we go further: the PSD comes to the debate, on behalf of all Portuguese, to present proposals for the country and not to solve isolated cases or situations that arise in the capital. We defend that the country needs a consistent, coordinated and consistent strategy. what the country does not need is appreciable measures, so without the merit that we deserve the initiative, I ask you, what reasons the CDS has for recommending the removal of the real estate heritage of Santa Casa da Misericórdia only in Lisbon, in order to create a programme of rehabilitation or construction of buildings for rent at moderate prices, rather than presenting an extended initiative to other urban centres, such as Porto or Coimbra, which have also entered the route of international real estate investments. And what about the initiative in which they recommend the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings in a particular area, once again in Lisbon, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, aimed at middle-class young people and families? Oh, my God! We ask: it would no longer make sense to present an extended initiative to all national and large urban centres, where the difficulty of family access to adequate housing is more visible, as proposed by the PSD in its draft resolution No 1591 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a)? Oh, my God! Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, since each of us has been elected to safeguard the best interests of the Portuguese, does it not seem to you that these legislative initiatives have too small a view? It is that, Mr. Deputies, Portugal is not only Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u14	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u15	For PSD there are, as never before, first Portuguese and second Portuguese; there are, as never was, more important or priority councils than others, only because they make more noise in social communication. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u16	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mr João Gonçalves Pereira to answer, let me just clarify that, in accordance with the common rule, the time to answer more than one question is three minutes. however, when it comes to global time, it is agreed, at the Conference of Leaders, that this time may go up to a limit of 6 minutes. Of course, the honourable Member is the owner and will manage his own time. Thus, in reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions. First of all, I would like to address Mr Renato Sampaio to tell him that I think he must be wrong. The CDS presented these initiatives in the Assembly of the Republic on 10 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u18	A month ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u19	And we presented our initiatives in February!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u20	The debate was marked and confirmed about three weeks ago. When did the Socialist Party present its initiatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u21	On October 4th!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u22	A week ago! Therefore, Mr Renato Sampaio, I welcome this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] He asked why the CDS presented an initiative to reduce the rate of income tax in IRS, and I understand the awkwardness of the Socialist Party. It is that the CDS proposal is much more competitive than that of the PS because rent contracts for housing of eight years or more are taxed at a rate of 12 %. Mrs Emília Santos, in addition to welcoming and thanking the issues she has raised, I would like to tell you that the CDS is, of course, available to assess the PSD proposals and to contribute, with consensus, to these proposals. The honourable Member said that the left is freezing the current dynamism, and I can no longer agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u23	Your dynamism is called expulsion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u24	It is that the social alarm and the instability that the left has generated and is generating in the market are contributing to the reduction in the number of housing available in the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u26	And who gets hurt with that? Everyone who's looking for a home. Therefore, the left is responsible precisely for this and for the instability that it created in the market itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u28	In conclusion, I would like to tell Mrs Emília Santos, on the question she raised with regard to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, that the CDS took the initiative with regard to Lisbon but is, of course, available to present measures in relation to other Santas Casas and the other State heritage. But let's be serious: many of the problems of access to housing are, at the moment, in the city of Lisbon and also in the city of Porto. So neither the world nor the country is only Lisbon — and the honourable Member knows that I support this, because we have known each other long enough and have worked together both in committee and in other parliamentary activities, but what is certain is that a significant part of the problem is in the city of Lisbon. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u29	There are now two further requests for clarification to Mr João Gonçalves Pereira. To this end, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, presented a series of legislative initiatives on housing and renting in this debate that the CDS has scheduled for today, but it seems to us - however - and we do not intend to make any value judgement on the opportunity of this debate, until the authors of the projects have all the freedom and all the legitimacy to schedule their initiatives when they understand it very well - that nothing would be lost if these proposals had been discussed during the debate that we did on the same subject a week ago. There's nothing to lose! But that is not why the CDS-scheduled debate loses opportunity or current time, because the discussions around housing and rent always have opportunity and are always current. After listening to Mr João Gonçalves Pereira to present the legislative initiatives of the CDS-PP and to read the explanatory statements of those initiatives, we must express, regardless of how we look at the proposals, a deep disagreement with what has been said and written. In fact, in the various legislative initiatives, it is mentioned that the former Government has carried out a profound reform of the lease regime, which it intends to encourage urban renting and rehabilitation. Well, Mr Deputy, as regards urban rehabilitation, it is as you can see and, as regards the dynamization of the lease market, it was neither ever a pretension of the previous government, but a pretext for introducing mechanisms to facilitate evictions, and this is an example of the creation of the National Rent Balcony (BNA). in fact, the changes promoted by the previous government have transformed housing into an important business sector and have eventually subject it to the dictatorship of the speculators' interests. And the result could be no other: a brutal increase in income, which is becoming absolutely unsustainable for family budgets, and the eviction of thousands and thousands of families from their homes. Official data leave no doubt about this. The number of evictions has increased since 2013 and, in the first nine months of last year, on average, five families per day have been cleared. I really have to repeat: five families have been cleared a day! Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, we understand very well what the CDS intends to say, when it states that the reform promoted by the previous government was aimed at promoting the lease. It was not, in fact, by any chance, that this Law was designated, and with all the property, it was said, in favour of the truth, as "the law of evictions". Today, the CDS brings us a set of proposals ranging from the creation of income insurance to incentives for housing rental, through changes to the building reserve fund system. We looked at these proposals and found that what the CDS wants is simply to amend and save the law of the current lease, such a "law of layoffs", because it is a law that is absolutely dying and whose revocation is imposed, as the Greens proposed during last week's debate. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I ask you the following: rather than being with palliative measures or adversarial remedies for a law which has created so much injustice, which is inadequate and which is not giving the right answer — in fact, it is recognised by all people, including by Mrs Assumption Cristas and even by the honourable Member, who today, in the rostrum, has also recognized it — would not be better to "kill evil for the root" and definitely repeal the "law of waste"? Oh, my God! In our view, this Law is more part of the problem than the solution and, in our view, there are no remedies that can be used to it, although the 'rights thrown away' by the Government intend to make it believe. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u31	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u32	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I listened to your statement and concluded that you did a rhetorical exercise, saying that the PSD and the CDS were responsible for a good law and that the problem is context. No, Mr. Member, neither the law is good, nor the problem is context. From the outset, we have warned that the Act of Assumption Christians, the Law for which they are responsible, has a very negative set of aspects, particularly in its conception, as regards the guarantee of the right to housing. After these years, unfortunately, reality has confirmed this very: it is a law that has favored the interests of economic groups and speculation and that has contributed to the brutal increase in the value of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u34	Contrary to what Mrs Emília Santos said, this law, in fact, brought a lot of dynamism, but this dynamism was to send people to the streets, to get rid of them. That was the dynamism of the Christian Assumption Law, throughout all these years! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The honourable Member has come here to talk about concern. Concern, yes, honourable Member, but concern on the part of the families, the residents, who have always fulfilled their responsibilities and their financial efforts to enhance their housing. And, now, what is the result? What's the compensation? It's the street! It's the clearance! This is what is being done to a group of residents!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u36	Isn't that true? Oh, my God! Isn't it true that people are being cleared? Oh, my God! Do you, after all, live in what country? Oh, my God! Isn't it true that people are seeing their income increased to 800 € and 900 €? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] Do not come with lies, because this is the reality of day by day that the inhabitants have already come to present us here. They can 'paint the blanket' as well as they understand, but this is the reality in concrete terms. [[PCP applause.]] Your law, the law of CDS and PSD, has not solved any problems, has brought new problems, as we are seeing today. Families are being cleared, as we have already said, and the right to housing is being referred not to the background but to the ultimate plan, because what is prioritized is the problem of the market and not the problem of the right to housing by the residents. We did not contribute to the whitening of CDS and PSD responsibilities, which was the operation that the CDS tried to mount here today in the Assembly of the Republic. The CDS and PSD are responsible not only for the precariousness of the right to housing but for putting the lives of thousands and thousands of people in a situation of enormous instability — instability, yes, in people's lives. This is what counts for the PCP. For this reason, the CFP considers that it is urgent and important to put an end to this Law, which does not serve the inhabitants nor does it meet the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u37	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u38	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, today's debate has been on 10 April. So the answer is there and you know it as well or better than I do. Mrs. Paula Santos, it's not because you speak louder than you're right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u40	What this debate requires is a lot of moderation and wisdom. I think the honourable Member has not yet realized that when we talk about the market, we talk about people and who makes the market are people. [[PCP laughter.]] So, Mrs Deputy, let's talk about rigour and numbers. How many leases do we have in Portugal? We have 730,000 contracts. in these 730 000 contracts, how much do the evictions correspond? We correspond to 0, 6%.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u41	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u42	of these 0, 6 %, 90 % correspond to non-compliance in the payment of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u43	You know it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u44	Madam Member, I know that for the CFP, housing policy should correspond to our social housing in the whole country. [[PCP protests.]] So we clearly have a disagreement, because we do not believe in the demand for real estate or in any of it. We have this divergence and it's an ideological brand between my bench and yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u46	Mr. José Luís Ferreira said that the CDS came here with palliative measures. Does the honourable Member think that the legal system of income insurance is palliative?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u47	So, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u48	Do you think tax incentives for long-term contracts are palliative?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u49	I think!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u50	Do you think that the use of state buildings for moderate income on the lease market is palliative? Let us be serious in the argument, Mr! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u51	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, American Anne Tyler said the following: « Houses need human beings(...). Of course, humans cause wear, expenses, blind health and so on, but that's nothing compared to what happens when a house gets uninhabited. It's like he's out of his heart." Today's debate is indeed extremely important. The right to housing is a fundamentally social right. All people need an appropriate space to ensure their privacy and family intimacy, but also that they are allowed to guarantee living conditions, health and well-being. It is enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic! The PSD does not abdicate the principle of the right to housing. For PSD, what matters is the defense of people, the defense of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] This debate cannot be focused on defending only one of the parties, but that is what many of the parties are doing and that is what, above all, the parties on the left, and those on the left most radical, want to feed. Made this way, this is a wrong discussion and with which we do not compact. The PSD is on the side of the lodgers and on the side of the landlords. Our proposals are aimed at defending both sides and making the lease market work. We know that tenants in a fragile situation deserve greater protection. We also know that, if there were no gentlemen, there would be no rental market and it would not work. We also recognise that there are gentlemen with many difficulties, with very economic fragility, which you do not recognize. So we are, yes, for the defense of all people, for the defense of all sides! The PSD advocates the creation of the lease allowance for people over 65 years of age and those with a dependency of more than 60 % and in situations of economic and social fragility. Is this not a clearly economic and social measure? The PSD advocates the creation of the lease allowance for numerous families and single-parent families in a situation of economic fragility. Is this not a socially just measure? The PSD defends the deduction of real estate charges amounting to 750 € when a member of the family is 30 years old or under. Another socially just measure! Three socially just measures we propose. The law of housing and the rental market, promoted by the previous government, was very positive. Back it's a historic mistake! A historic mistake that this government does not want to make and I do believe it will not. You're not going into your story. however, due to the country's entry into the club of the most sought-after tourist destinations and incentives to fix other citizens and other measures, the real estate market has experienced an impulse, as it has not been attended long ago, which has contributed to the economic recovery that will make itself feel, but you already like it! This new reality obliges us to introduce adaptations to the law in force, specifically aimed at the lease market. in this perspective, we consider it essential to act on the offer side and it is decisive to create conditions of confidence between the parties, between the owners and the tenants. You guys have done exactly the opposite. Your initiatives, initiatives on the left and on the left radical, have only created instability and mistrust between the parties. But in order to stimulate confidence between the parties, the PSD proposes six more measures: first, differentiation of the special rate of income for contracts lasting more than two and five years and lowering the rate of IRS from 28 % to 25 %, going up to 14 % in 9 years; second, repeal of the IMI supplement, of the famous IMI (additional to municipal property tax) which only served to generate distrust — moreover, it served even to punish those who had the unfortunate idea of saving and investing in the real estate market; third, to study the creation of an income insurance with the aim of reducing the risk associated with leases; fourth, to promote a programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate; fifth, dynamisation of the National Housing Commission which, integrated in the IHRU (Inhabitation and Urban Rehabilitation Institute), should be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the public housing policies; sixth and last measure, the Balperage. The Social Democratic Party has always given shape to the public policies and fundamental principles embodied in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, as set out in Article 65. the, whose enforcement of the right to housing is precisely the responsibility of the State, but always compatible with another fundamental right : the right to private property, as provided for in Article 62. o. Public policies cannot be made solely at the expense of the owners, nor at the expense of the municipalities; they are a constitutional obligation of the central State. As a state of democratic law which is Portugal, it is up to the political power responsible to safeguard the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Republic, seeking the balance between the various principles enshrined there: that of the right to housing, that of the right to private property and those of proportionality, equality and trust. The PSD is, as it has always been, available to defend a real lease market, but that serves all sides. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u53	Mr. Deputies, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u54	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u55	Of course, Mr. Deputies. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Vilhena, of the PS. Mr. Luís Vilhena ( PS ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa Silva, before taking any consideration or asking any question about the presentation of abrasive measures which the PSD has intended to submit to the discussion, it is good to recall, once again, that they arise by means of the presentation of a draft law of the CDS which, in turn, also arises by means of the presentation of a series of government initiatives on housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u57	This bill, despite being framed with a tax issue, obviously has to do with housing, with access to housing and with the promotion of the rental market. The PS Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to ask in 11. the Commission if this draft law of the CDS could not or should even be part of the discussion of a series of initiatives that have gone down to the Commission to be worked in the field of specialty, including three proposed laws of the Government, which give shape to a large part of the new generation of housing policies, but you insisted that these matters be dealt with in part of the set of proposals that relate to housing and that are observed only from the point of view of taxation. And so there was a number of appreciable initiatives, to which the PSD joined, driven by CDS initiatives that should clearly be observed in conjunction with all the others that were discussed here in general last week, and which have gone down to the Commission to be worked together in the field of expertise. Besides, after listening to the gentlemen. Members of the CDS and the PSD and having taken into account the huge list of initiatives presented, I am led to believe that you think that the final work of a marcher is to tighten up. Well, it's not! [[P.S.'s applause.]] unlike the profusion of avulsive initiatives, the government, through the new generation of housing policies, both in the programmes already launched and also in the bills discussed here last week, is building a series of pieces that fit each other and that all of them make sense if observed together. These policies aim to define a new paradigm for housing, both in access to housing and in the rental market, as well as in social support for families who, by their own means, cannot access a decent housing. The PS Parliamentary Group did exactly the same, i.e., it presented a basic housing law, a law that serves as a basis and makes sense to concrete policies, but that they are all guided by the same principles. However, this role of initiatives, which you presented here and the others who have entered and withdrawn from this discussion, will only make sense if they are discussed together in the specialty and in the Commission responsible for dealing with housing matters. Otherwise, and going to find the story of the Marciener I mentioned a little while ago, instead of helping to build a mobile where all the pieces fit and in which there is no need to change from time to time, you will simply spread the saw, as firefighters do on the road when there is an accident. Perhaps that is the same thought behind this profusion of initiatives! Is that what you're talking about? It is the bad conscience of a law of urban lease that has caused disasters, because it has not been accompanied and framed by a set of instruments that would safeguard the families that today are unprotected. That is why I would ask you. Members of the PSD and the CDS willing to discuss these proposals, in the field of expertise, together with the others that were discussed here last week? And now, I ask the right-wing question, as the Greens Ecological Party Member would say: if the Government had not presented the new generation of housing policies and if the PS Parliamentary Group had not submitted the proposal for a basic housing law, would you have submitted today this number of audacious proposals that are being discussed here? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u58	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa Silva, we have listened carefully to the speech you have just made, a real exercise of political hypocrisy that has led to this debate. We have heard his attempt to turn this debate into a discussion of charitable assistanceism, seeking to refer to the state of footnote the people who were "dynamized" from the door out, who were truly expelled from their homes, their neighborhoods and even their cities. We are not only talking about the formal clearance processes; we are talking about people who have not held the new value that was imposed on their income and who have therefore been obliged to leave the city in which they have lived their entire lives. This is what's happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u61	But, curiously, or perhaps not, I would say significantly that what we did not hear in your speech was a single phrase, one word, one only sigh that it was in relation to the real desperate situation facing thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises of restoration, trade, services and even small industry, as a result of this law of urban lease that you so much like. You have completely ignored the situation of these companies, because the PSD and, already, the CDS, in practice, in fact, in political action ignore and indeed disregard the reality of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, of the value they create in the Portuguese economy, of the jobs that allow to create and maintain, the investment itself and the value added to the buildings and the rentes, which results from the presence, the stay and the historical and cultural identity of the cities, resulting from the presence and activity of so many of these companies, these shops, these restaurants, these services and that have been expelled to a reality of completely extinction of their activity, because that was what they were. The question that we put to the honourable Member is the following: why do you, who so much like to talk about companies, know very well what companies are talking about and what economic groups are worrying about, now, in this discussion, suddenly, make them disappear from your thinking? Or are you thinking only of the real estate funds and the large economic groups of the financial sector that, in their position as lords, are cleaning up whole blocks and districts of small businesses, of the small businesses that have been there for decades? Oh, my God! The truth is, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the only proposal that really responds to the situation of these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to the threat they face today which have not yet been expelled and which have not yet closed, because many have already closed their doors, is the proposal of the CFP, in the sense that the criminal law, which you so much like, is now being repealed, is the new Urban Rent Regime so that it can be prepared and approved a new regime that meets the specific needs of this sector, but that it does not have the truly unacceptable, scandalous and criminal situation that you are now living under the law that you have imposed on the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u62	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u63	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Luís Vilhena and Mr Bruno Dias for the questions they have raised. With regard to Mr Luís Vilhena's speech, I have virtually to go fishing on the line to understand the questions you have raised. The honourable Member has talked about appreciable measures, nine proposals, for a law that already exists and is good. Well, I have to say that the PSD is not running this race to see who first arrived. We want the final result and that this is positive for all sides — in fact, that is what you heard in my speech. Do you know something, Mr? It is interesting, because at the end of the intervention, I said precisely that we were available, we were open to this discussion. And more: we want to believe that the Government and the Socialist Party are good at this discussion and that they do not go on this song of this castration of the lease market that is proposed by the left and the most radical left. Mr Bruno Dias, I have to ask you a question: what do you want? You want to revoke the current law to meet the law you voted against? Is that what you want? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u64	Do you want to repeal the current law to meet a law for which you voted against? Is that it? That's the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u65	That's enough for worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u66	It is the PCP of the verb to revoke! It's the verb you know well! Then the honourable Member comes up with the very glaring question that they are the most unprotected defenders. Don't! The PSD proposals are clearly designed to protect those who are most vulnerable in this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u67	What about the merchants? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u68	Traders too, when it is necessary to be protected. We have multiple proposals of this nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u69	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u70	We have already presented other initiatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u71	Give an example. Not one for a sample!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u72	...in addition to those under discussion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u73	Mr João Torres, of the PS. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The power schedule of this plenary session, a CDS marking, can only be seen with irony. Public housing policies, and particularly with regard to urban rental, have been the poor relative of our democracy for decades. The consequences are seen by everyone and are felt throughout the country, with special incidence in urban centers. Families that live without conditions of dignity, elderly or disabled citizens who are now given to their lot, young displaced students who adjust their emancipation or simply do not find a place to live, incomes that consume the scarce financial resources that citizens and entire family members have, lack of supply, lack of options and alternatives, this is reality. In Portugal, there are only 2 % public-supported fires in contrast to the reality of the most developed countries in Europe, where this is often 10 %, 20 % and more. As a result of the most detailed survey ever conducted in our country, there has been a lack of 20 000 condigna dwellings. The absence of intervention in this sector may even go through different governments, but the worsening of housing difficulties, today not exclusive of the most deprived families, extensible to the middle classes, has very concrete faces and protagonists. And that's why the right feels so uncomfortable. PSD and CDS present themselves in this debate of heavy conscience, but so far without a moment of repentance. PSD and CDS have agreed late to the problem, come to the tow of the government, which has already presented the new generation of housing policies, come to the tow of the PS Parliamentary Group, which has already presented a draft housing base law. But PSD and CDS not only agreed late for this debate as they still do not understand the magnitude of this problem. What PSD and CDS today propose to this House is nothing more than stopping the wind with their hands. In order to politically situate this debate, we must remember the last one we had on the same subject. This is the case to say, ladies and gentlemen. Right-wingers, who know what VV. They said last Friday, as we know, and the Portuguese too, what they did when they exercised government responsibilities. Today they bring the debate nine initiatives — a bill and eight draft resolutions — some good intentions, but, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, some lack of notion. The CDS proposes a new reserve fund system for buildings. Yes, it is a good intention, but it seems more interested in its public supervision by the municipalities than in its constitution. He has no notion. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It proposes the creation of a legal regime for income insurance. Yes, it is a good intention, but its existence does not depend only on an amendment to the legal system. He has no notion. It proposes the report to the Assembly of the Republic of all buildings associated with the National Building Rehabilitation Fund. Yes, it is a good intention, but the Government and the fund management entity are already obliged to provide this information to the respective regulatory entity. Once again, you have no notion. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] Mr President, in addition to two other draft resolutions on Lisbon, they present a bill providing for tax benefits for leases, providing for a reduced autonomous rate from one-year contracts and without any limitation to the value of these contracts. A generic reduction in taxation would only benefit the owners and divert them from the central objective of protecting those who lack attention from public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may even be a good intention, but on the subject under discussion — I stress once again — it is seen that the CDS has no notion. It is obvious that the CDS and PSD defend, it is a legitimate choice, but the strongest are already defended by the market. For the weak, they have a hand full of nothing and nothing else. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group is not left behind, it also proposes what is already being done or debated in Parliament in the context of the diplomas under discussion and which were discussed last week. Mrs. Members, income insurance is already provided under the national lease programme; cooperation between the State and local authority as well; and the recommendation that the Government create a subsidy for renting in situations of sudden fragility is deeply demagogic, coming from who comes and taking into account the protection that the PS Government and Parliamentary Group want to ensure to citizens over 65 years or proven degree of disability over 60 %. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The starting point of the PSD on this debate is crystal clear and is summed up in the statement of one of its draft resolutions, which I quote, Mrs and Mrs. Members : « With the 2012 reform, in fact, the lease market has gained new momentum. However, the vicissitudes and the dynamics of life have brought small distortions that have eroded confidence in the market(...) », end of quote. They heard well, for the PSD the problem is, see, in vicissitudes and in the dynamics of life. It is appropriate to ask: what is the dynamics of life like this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Is this not the dynamics of the deregulated market, the dynamics of speculation? Or will this "dynamics of life" be the intelligent way of demarcating itself from its former partner of coalition and the famous "Crist law"? Oh, my God! That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and for which we are looking for an answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u75	Take it easy, the answer's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u76	Dynamics of life, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Please! It is not clear, with such poor argument and so weak proposal, whether the PSD intends to amend the hand or incur the error. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These debates are healthy when they do not resort to crafts. Today and now, we prove once again that, in terms of housing, the government and the PS mark the pace, when the right one only wants and can only mark the step. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u77	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u78	Mr President, honourable Member, once again, we are faced with political hypocrisy. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u79	The Socialist Party presents itself here, in this debate, as a means of news and bold public housing policies that are neither political nor much less public.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u81	That one now? Oh, my God! Aren't they public? Oh, my God! It's in the Journal of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u82	The PS and the Government intend to create a mere illusion that they have policies for housing when, in fact, they have little more than proposals to volunteer force. Policies, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they require investment and funding. Question : What are the financial instruments and the amounts you propose to us? What is the strengthening of funds that the State is going to devote to implementing these policies that you have mentioned here? What we know, Mr. Deputies, nothing! We know only that they refuse to pay the income allowance, that it was a mechanism that the previous government has approved and on which the Minister of the Environment has already publicly said that he did not have a budget to pay it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not only a strengthening of funds as housing funds decrease. The Government diverted more than EUR 18 million from the IHRU coffers, which were intended for the management and maintenance of the State housing park. [[Protests from PS Deputy Helena Roseta.]] And what happened to this money? What does the Socialist Party have to tell us about this? How do you explain that housing is announced as a priority and that money is withdrawn from it? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised at this. They are the two sides of the Socialist Party. On the one hand, they propose a law that allows the State to require private property that is not inhabited, on the other hand, is the same Socialist Party that, in the City Hall of Lisbon, was responsible for leaving more than 1500 houses unemployed! That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government and the Socialist Party should start this debate by looking inside first, they should start by self-regulating the public heritage that is returned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how about the Government present concrete measures here to rehabilitate its heritage and place it on the lease market, giving the example? Mrs. Members, the PS, the Government and the left speak a lot about housing, but in fact they do not strengthen the housing funds, divert IHRU money, refuse to pay the income allowance, propose the request for empty houses, but do not give the example with the state heritage, extend the terms of contracts over five and seven years, but, when the State is the tenant, these deadlines are three years and reach the limit of speaking to us in vital contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, your housing policy charges the renter, except when this is the state. The PS and the left are very good in terror policy, because they've managed to scare the landlords, they've been able to scare the investors, they've been able to scare the offer and kill the lease. And the fear of the Portuguese is that you kill the right to private property. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u83	To reply, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u84	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, you spoke here about the policy of terror and said that the proposals of the Government and the PS scare the Portuguese. You know, Mrs. Member, to me, what scares me is to see a party like the Social Democratic Party, which supposedly has a social-democrat matrix,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u85	They know what that is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u86	... apparently, given its designation, do not express, in this debate, a single concern about the problems that the Portuguese are experiencing in the area of housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u87	Read our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u88	It seems absolutely unacceptable to me, a party with your history, your role in consolidating democracy, arrived in 2018, when thousands and thousands of Portuguese, poorer and even middle classes, have difficulties in ensuring a housing, not listening, from your mouth, a single word on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have not heard a single word on this matter! But, Mrs. Deputy, you've been talking about misappropriation of money. There was no money diversion. The honourable Member has to study more carefully the programmes which we are now at the disposal of and which the Government is launching and the Assembly of the Republic is in the process of deepening.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u89	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u90	Mrs Deputy, I find it very regrettable after the debate last Friday and after the debate we are here today to maintain, disregard and disregard the proposed laws of the Government on this matter, as well as the draft basic housing law, which the PS Parliamentary Group has submitted. Do you know why, Your Honor? It's because we never heard a PSD word about the affordable lease program. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u91	None!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u92	We have never heard a PSD word about the fiscal stimuli that the Socialist Party and, indeed, the government presented to this House, which aim to encourage long-term lease. After all, the PSD is in favour, is it against, is it so-so? Well, it's not meat or fish, because that's the position VV. They are faced with this issue, ignoring and neglecting the problems that citizens live on a daily basis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u93	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right and the former Government, in order to try to hide the crisis that led to the liberalisation of the lease law, today present palliatives in this agenda for the housing crisis. Where they now considered that the lease was crystallized, we say that by your action he is, at this moment, non-existent. The truth, which cannot hide—and it is today, in the eyes of all—is that they have made your policy of promoting speculative real estate investment. Unsatisfied with this intervention, they made public housing policy—at the same time, non-existent—in a private business and now call for public intervention, which they did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u96	The « waste law », the liberalisation of the local housing regime and the tax benefits to urban rehabilitation have led to the cleaning of the facades but also of the people, who have been leased from the city centres as well as the suburbs. People were thus furnished with their lives and this was, and it is, a gutetization of a large group of the population, who is now looking for home. This is also a form of impoverishment of people who have more expensive incomes, more transportation charges and less and less time for their lives. There is no recovery of possible income with the colonization of time and labour income of people for speculative interests. And these are middle-income people, they're low-income people, they're young, they're elderly and they're middle-aged people. And, as we can see, this is not the necessary housing policy and these are not the necessary answers either now. Cities are not concrete, they are not tax benefits, they are not investment funds, they are not blocks delivered to banks, they are not whole blocks populated to T0, they are not compartmentalized buildings, masked housing, which are no more than places to pass. The law of Christian Assumption incomes has come to be the guarantee that people live with their lives in their hands and with their suitcases behind their backs. But this too is no longer limited only to the cities most pressed by real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u98	Just see the indignation and news of the elderly, not so elderly, desperate with the threats of eviction from the homes where they always lived. Just look at the possibility open to Fidelity to clear at least a thousand people from their homes—and remember here that Fidelity was public and was privatized. It is enough to think that where there was no public guarantee service of a constitutional right, that of housing, the CDS and PSD were able to interfere so that the market cannibalize any guarantee of protection and have completely resigned from intervening and guaranteeing people who are not harassed and who are not homeless. We have thus, and for some time now, come to a problem of deep social emergency. And what we're discussing today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? More tax benefits, the maintenance of the same business, without any control of the speculative increases in incomes. The CDS learns nothing from the crisis. To the point where we now consider longer leases for tax benefits to owners, one-year and one-day leases. What's this, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What do you need to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u99	Stimulate the market, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u100	We know that it is not very difficult, nor is it difficult to understand. We need to put an end to the extremism of the "Cristan law" and walk to a society in which the right to housing, as already happens in health and education, is seen as a responsibility of all and not as a scarce privilege that the market will have to distribute to those who have the most fortune or luck. What is required is the guarantee of the right to housing in accordance with Article 65. the Constitution. Most of the proposals presented by the right here today do not go that way. Question : What proposals do you put forward to end instability in people's lives? What protection guarantee people who are currently being harassed and cleared? Zero, sir! Zero! And how do they respond to the liberalisation — which also allowed — of the activity of local accommodation? They do not limit or have quotas, do not distinguish the real accommodation of tourist enterprises with dozens of buildings in the race for this activity that cannibalized and cannibalized the housing park and raises the rents at prices that do not allow anyone with a average salary to live in the center of cities such as Lisbon or Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u101	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u102	As for the regime of visasgold and non-standard residents who stress speculative pressure on the real estate market, you are also proposing zero! The radicalism in this matter of the previous government and in particular of Assumption Cristas created a time bomb that is bursting. That's why stopping the evictions now is an emergency. The idea that the housing market and contractual freedom must prevail is only a corrective logic of some excesses through tax and by the goodwill of owners or partnership with privates does not work, nor does it respond to needs, as we have seen in recent years. I mean, once again, what are you arguing about here, then? First, stop the evictions of the "Cristan law" and return to the tenants the protection they should have, preventing them from getting on the streets of the elderly or persons with disabilities, and ending the disposal counter, that they have been victims of families, but also associations and small businesses. Secondly, standardise leases, setting minimum deadlines of five years and also favouring, fiscally, contracts of indefinite duration and with limits to income increases. It's not enough for a year, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Third, protect tenants with old incomes in the transition to this new regime, also supporting the owners. Fourthly, to prohibit bullying real estate, violent harassment in the city centers by landlords who want to expel residents or real estate who want to place the buildings to render and protect tenants in the sale of buildings, ensuring that they have a right of preference, even if they only buy a fraction — what is not happening with Fidelity. Fifthly, to increase public housing supply, to invest in the rehabilitation and provision of housing at supported and controlled prices, which means allowing municipalities to invest without being strangled by rules that prevent them from borrowing debt. Finally, regulate the activity of local accommodation. None of this is under discussion today, but the Left Block has already put forward these proposals before. We have already had the opportunity to discuss here and, in order to respond to people, we will continue to discuss these proposals in the specialty, ensuring that they advance in order to guarantee people the right to housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u103	Mrs. Members, according to the structure of this debate, the last intervention should be the CDS and the penultimate PSD. from which, the parliamentary groups that did not present legislative initiatives and that still have time still have the ability to register to intervene. The Bureau is awaiting registrations. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, which is not the final intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even closer to the end of this housing agenda required by the CDS, I would like to repeat that it is essential that this debate be serious, contribute to an improvement of the housing supply and create conditions for everyone's access to housing. For this reason, and because the issue of housing is important for the well-being of Portuguese people, the CDS has reserved one of its power agendas to debate active policies for access to housing. During this debate, we presented six legislative initiatives on, inter alia, the reduction in the rate of autonomous taxation, at the IRS level, of incomes; the creation of an income insurance; the supervision of reserve funds for buildings; transparency in the processes of alienation to the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of State Buildings; the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings that integrate the Santana Hill in Lisbon so that they can be used for housing at moderate prices; and finally a recommendation to the Government to undertake the lifting of the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon for the creation of a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of buildings for rental at moderate prices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are six legislative initiatives, which seriously contribute to a significant improvement in the housing problem. From now on, I would like to make clear the availability of the CDS for dialogue and, in the field of expertise, we accept suggestions and proposals that can improve our diplomas. Law No. 31 / 2012 was an important contribution to promoting housing and urban rehabilitation. Six years ago, we must focus on its improvement, responding to new realities and challenges in the future. The problem of housing in Portugal requires stability of policies and security for both tenants and tenants. It does not require the instability of advertisements and more announcements of measures that are never known whether or not will happen and that, in fact, will make the country back decades. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do not count on the CDS to make the country retreat, freezing rents and so back to the time of the New State. They do not count on the CDS to go back to 1975 with the occupations, with the request of devolved houses, violating private property. Yes, they count on the CDS for a serious and serene discussion to improve housing policies. That is what we have done when scheduling this debate today. That is what we will do during the discussion in the specialty, with determination to solve the problems afflicting the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u105	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, the Bureau records the registration of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u106	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u107	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u108	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, the CDS, in this agenda, in addition to a set of draft resolutions, brings in particular a draft law on tax matters. Reading the justifying note of the bill, it is verified that it begins by making a compliment to that which has been called « law crystals», bringing all the references that present it as a good solution to the country. However, if we look at reality, we see that it is very different. In fact, the current government did well to open up a new discussion on this subject and to put a new generation of housing policies on the table. But when it comes to the tax issue, which is the essential issue of your bill, I must say that it is based on a tax benefit, that is, based on tax expenditure, based on the support of taxpayers in our tax effort according to a public housing policy. in this sense, I wanted to leave a very specific question: do you think that the proposals they present, reducing the rates of tax incidence within IRS, will somehow be able to encourage the lease market? I would also like to leave you a concrete example and then ask you a very direct question. I give you the example: imagine a property worth EUR 1 million, which is leased for EUR 6000 per month and which, according to your proposal, will have a tax benefit of 5 %. I ask whether these 5 % — therefore, the difference between 28 % and 23 % —, about €3500 of tax benefit that this gentleman will have with this measure will contribute to the improvement of the lease market, to access to lease by Portuguese families, to solve the problem of the lease of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like you to be able to give me a positive answer. In fact, your legislation, your solution is not for the Portuguese, it is for your sector that responds, you know for whom you are legislating. They are legislating for the gentlemen, they are your only interest, as it was very clear in the example I presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u109	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, says the CDS, both in its intervention and in the previous intervention of its bench, that we are now well and that we had problems in the past. They talk about stability and say that there is concern on the part of people—without ever referring very well to what people are addressing themselves—as to the changes that are now on the table, they talk about dynamism, the vitality of the rental market, mobility... Mr Commissioner — and this is the first note I would like to leave — if things are now as well as they say, why does the CDS come to present amendments on this matter? You don't get it! But I bring you a very clear and synthetic contribution from those who live every day with the problems that the CDS created with the law of evictions. As you know, the North lodger Association, which is based in the Port district, but we could give examples of so many other districts in our country, says the following: « More than 100 consultations per week » ; « daily there are waste» ; « dozens of waste per week » ; « flooder ». They talk about the aggressiveness of the owners, using works to clear entire families and promote local housing. Mr Deputy, as a very concrete and pragmatic example, which is very elucidative of how the law of evictions is reflected in people's lives, referred to the case of one lady, in the historical centre of the city of Porto, 90 years old, who lived in her home for more than 50 years and was cleared to promote local housing. I ask you, Mr Álvaro Castello-White: is this the modernity and mobility that the CDS defends for people? Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, the law of clearance, of the CDS, is for rent as the liberalisation of the eucalyptus is for the forest: it has only given, and it can only give, astonishing, so a profound change is required, as the CFP proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u111	Mr Álvaro Castello-White, please respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u112	Mr President, I am grateful, of course, for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Fernando Anastácio and Jorge Machado and I begin by answering Mr Fernando Anastácio, who raised the tax issue. Mr President, I have heard your example, but, frankly, it is completely undone. I would have been able to tell myself, when many, how many tenants have this 1 million building, something that you have not told me and, therefore, I do not know and can not do the analysis on this matter. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u113	But I can tell you something obvious, which I think you will understand: the fall in the rate of IRS due to the durability of contracts has to do with a very simple issue, the increase in supply. And as you well know, the increase in supply leads to a drop in rental prices. This is obvious and everyone knows and therefore I cannot even understand how Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u114	But on what planet is the honourable Member living? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u115	But I say more to you, Mr President: the Socialist Party itself has come to propose an identical measure, only that it is not as competitive as ours, because it only talks in contracts over 10 and 20 years, but lowering the rate of IRS. Sir, what's the difference? Ours doesn't serve and yours? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u116	Our service is better because it is more competitive and if you don't have anything else to say that it is not, frankly, an intervention by the Socialist Party much less than you were expecting. In speaking, I would like to say to the honourable Member the following: The Government has done nothing to date on housing. You know why? Because for a year and a half or almost two years he went to announce what he was going to do but he did zero! Next, he created a Secretary of State for Housing to finally say « now it will be! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But this past year, already with the Secretary of State for Housing, he has done zero, and it is only now that he has appeared with proposals. And now, Mr. João Torres, after the CDS had entered the Assembly of the Republic,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u117	... because when the bill of the Housing Basic Law entered the Assembly of the Republic already the CDS had delivered its proposals on housing. So don't come back here to try to say it's the champions, because you're champions of absolutely nothing, since so far you've done absolutely nothing. Mr. Jorge Machado, obviously Mr. Member makes the speech of the customs of the Portuguese Communist Party, with all demagogy, all the ideological burden that is normal and with all the social alarmism that you like to introduce in these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u118	Specific cases!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u119	You don't leave the house, do you? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u120	First of all — and already Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira referred to it — there are 720 000 leases in Portugal. The clearances this year were 0, 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u121	Oh, this isn't a waste! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u122	I made the accounts: 0, 6 %, were 4400 clearances. of these 4400 evictions, 90% was due to lack of income payment. [[Well, well...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u123	So don't tell me that 0, 6% of evictions in the total universe means that the current law favors evictions. The figures presented here translate facts, as much as the Communist Party does not want, as much as the Communist Party wanted it to be different. But that is not the reality, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u124	What a contempt for people! It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u125	Finally, and answering your questions, I tell you something else: does the honourable Member say that if the law is so good, then why have we, CDS, now come to the Assembly of the Republic to make amendments? Mr President, six years have passed, the realities are changing and we are constantly trying to improve what we have done. [[Exactly, that's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u126	We are not like the Communist Party, immobilist, who wants to freeze the rents and stay like this, forever. We follow society, follow the evolution of reality and worry about the well-being of Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u127	This is a Christian casino democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u128	It's the communism of the New State!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, which was scheduled by the CDS, the responsibilities that PSD and CDS insist on not wanting to take on the attack on the right to housing and the fact that many and many residents today are at risk of losing their homes, which many have already lost. We have brought concrete problems here and brought to this debate also the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but at this stage of conclusion of the debate, I wanted to say that the CFP has always been in the fight against this Law from the very first moment, because it was really seeing what would generate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u131	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u132	From the very first moment we said that we were against the evictions, against the brutal increase in incomes and that what had to be protected was the right to housing. But that is also what we have not seen today in this debate, because either PSD or CDS continue not to recognize that the Law which imposed on the country, which imposed on the residents is a law of eviction. This was the result of your political options by further precaution of the right to housing and by making a law that served, solely and exclusively, the interests of speculative funds, economic groups, real estate and housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u133	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u134	For PSD and CDS, housing is not a right, it is not a fundamental good for life, to ensure families. It is another product, a commodity, which can be placed on the table in a market, business perspective, marketing a fundamental duty. For the PCP, and that is also what we want to mark here today, the right to housing is fundamental, it has to be defended, protected and therefore we have presented an initiative in February this year. But in this legislature we also presented a set of initiatives that have already been discussed and, through our action and intervention, it was possible to prevent the eviction of residents and of many micro and small companies, of collectivities, which were covered by the transitional regime of your Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u135	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. But what is fundamental is, in fact, to put an end to this Law, because it does not defend the national interest, it does not defend the right to housing, it does not defend the interests of the inhabitants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u137	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP narrative in this debate on urban rental policies summarizes, as one might imagine, the cassette's speech, that is, it brings nothing again, limiting itself again to manifesting its complex, purely ideological, in this matter. For PSD, the lease market can only work in a fair and balanced way if you look at the process as a whole and not just stay on the side as the PCP does. If there are many weaknesses with regard to tenants, we must not forget that more than 16% of the gentlemen live in extreme poverty. But that doesn't matter anymore to the PCP! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u139	The Communist Party, as it is shown, can only conjugate the verbs to revoke, suspend and reverse... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ... because they tried to revoke the current law of urban lease, approved in 2012 and at the same time the replacement of the rules of the Urban Rent Scheme in 2006 — which, curiously, voted against — and between 2006 and 2012 until they tried to revoke them. It is appropriate to say that, with so many revocations, we still risk coming back to the New State for years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u140	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP does not, in fact, present a single idea that aims at improving, improving and adapting rental policies to the current national context. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] So we would like to know, in particular, what proposals does the CFP have in relation to urban construction and rehabilitation? What proposals does the CFP have to boost the urban lease market? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u141	What we know is that this is the CFP which has clearly forgotten to conjugate the verbs to claim and defend the right to housing because it has supported a government in which the budget of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute is less than the value provided by the budget of the Lisbon House for housing. In addition, it also applauds and approves a State budget which does not include measures and funds tailored to the real needs of Portuguese in the context of the fundamental right to housing, which is the State which undoubtedly has the responsibility to guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u142	Go away, run with the people in your homes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u143	For this reason, I would like to know what the CFP thinks about the PSD resolution project, which proposes the reduction of the libertarian rate and the special rate on building income. Finally, I would like to ask how the PCP will vote on the PSD draft resolution, which proposes the use of public real estate that is returned or underused, with a view to its placing on the lease market. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u144	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no inscriptions at this time and, with no inscriptions, I will not repeat that there are no inscriptions and I give the floor to the parliamentary groups which have the right to close the debate. Did I get it? [[Pause.]] I think I'm making myself understand. The gentlemen. Members know that registrations should be made on a regular basis following the presentation of the topics. Mrs. Helena Roseta from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever is following this debate, so many pages must think that we are having a deaf debate because we have such different concepts that we cannot understand what we are saying. So I would like to bring here some clarifications so that things are not confusing to those who are following us. It is true, as the CDS-PP said, that the failure to pay rents is residual in Portugal — they spoke in 0, 6 %, but in fact, it is only 0, 5 %, it is perfectly residual, that is true. But then why do we talk so much about eviction? Mrs. Members, what is not residual and every day is happening, in hundreds and hundreds of cases, are the unrenewed leases, for very short periods, which you have created,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... are the letters asking for double or triple the income, are the works in rented buildings, which led to the evictions of whole buildings here in Lisbon, including shops and everything. It was all gone to rehabilitate the building! That's not residual. It's not residual and it's serious! And the gentlemen. Members of all banks should look here, because what is happening in Portugal now according to Eurostat statistics, I believe that in 2015 in terms of renting, it is that 35 % of the families who when this statistics was made still had a contract, at that time, were already overburdened with house expenses. This means that more than a third of the families with leases are paying for the house more than what they can bear. This is the reality we have to face, changing the laws that need to be changed and creating the incentives that need to be created. It's just that if we don't do this, sirs. Members, there is no competitiveness in the market that can guarantee social stability, the security of both parties, both owners and tenants, the security of rent and the safety of families. It is not legitimate to think that we have to give tax benefits to one party in contracts one year or another one day, when, on the other hand, people do not have to have a lease. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a deep imbalance in this sharing of incentives and responsibilities, and this has to be changed, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has to be changed! In fact, I find it strange that the PSD and the CDS-PP have, over these two years, persistently questioned the government and the various left-wings, asking "Why do they not change the lease law, since they think it is so bad? And now that we want to change it, they say: “Here he will end the market! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand: the law, as it is, is wrong! The very authors of the law have already recognized such vicissitudes that were remembered here by Mr. João Torres. We need to change the lease law. We must have a new housing policy. Your 2015 national strategy is not enough, it is insufficient for the major shortcomings. I had the opportunity to say that here in my political statement last week. You spoke in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In fact, I have the privilege, because I am old, of being a constituent. Article 62. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, defense of private property, which you invoke, in its paragraph 2, says that requests and expropriations for public utility can be made in accordance with the law. It's in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Why does this cause you so much alarmism? [[Congrats from PS MP João Torres.]] It's because of the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they read badly, they just read to one side, they don't read things like they have to be read. It's in the Constitution, Mrs Sandra Pereira! And I say more to him: in fact, everyone here quoted Article 65. the, but, attention, have also forgotten its paragraph 3, which, I recall, states that the State will adopt a policy aimed at establishing income compatible with family income. So I ask: where is this today, when a third of the families who have rented houses can't bear the rental expenses? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u146	They want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u147	This is the fundamental question to which we must answer. That's what we're asked to do now. The gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP say that they were the first to schedule this matter. All right, we like that very much. But here the problem is not to know if they were the first. They have only scheduled a bill of a fiscal nature and they have not wanted to discuss it in the Housing Commission, and that is the question, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. So let's discuss this, but let's discuss it deeply, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, I say to you: do not come to mix the municipality of Lisbon with the Assembly of the Republic. It's just that, I'm sorry, but you should have a little more attention to what they say about the Santana hill, because the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon in 2014 adopted a resolution, which the CDS voted favourably, to let the hospitals stay on the Santana hill, until there was the new hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u148	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u149	Question: Do you want to end up with the Hospital de São José, the Hospital de Santa Marta and the Hospital de Santo António dos Capuchos? They're going to tell the Lisboa! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u150	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u151	Madam President, Mrs. Helena Roseta, I want to congratulate you and start with a congratulations. Mrs Deputies was strict when she said in this Chamber, demystifying what is the social alarmism of the 'left-to-left' in relation to the evictions, what is very non-compliance and few evictions and what is currently in existence is a problem in renewing leases. That's what the honourable Member here said, and I said it right. Now I want to tell you the following: Madam Member, I have been very attentive to this debate, particularly its intervention, and I think we should not take the debate only to Lisbon. But I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, how does this chart which I present here comment on the lease market in the city of Lisbon. [[Right now, the speaker displayed the chart he mentioned.]] It is that between 2010 and 2016 — in 2010, before the reform, and in 2016, already with the reform — the number of real estate in the lease market in Lisbon increased by 60 %. In other words, the introduction of changes to the law in 2012 did not correct this trend, which already existed, of growth. In other words, the number of real estate on the lease market increased from 2010 to 2016 by around 60 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u152	People are running from Lisbon is a detail!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u153	In conclusion, I also wanted to tell you what we heard in the election campaign in Lisbon about the proposal on the lands of the former Popular Fair. What the CDS proposed for the lands of the old Popular Fair was its availability for rental at moderate prices, namely, houses T0 to 500 €, value that could go, in houses T4, up to 1350 €. Now, what was not our surprise when we saw that the government would wear on such affordable incomes placed them on 7th step, which is that step that applies to Lisbon. It is where the CDS, on the grounds of the old Popular Fair, proposes T0 to 500 €, the Government now proposes T0 to 600 € ; and where the CDS proposes T4 to 1350 €, the Government now proposes T4 to 1450 €. Are these affordable rents? Oh, my God! Open... Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again: in this debate, in order to be serious, there must be rigour. And rigour has numbers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u154	In reply, Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u155	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, as regards the numbers on the value of the leases in Lisbon, I have not updated them here. I have, yes, for the country, the 2011 Census numbers. And I can tell you, sir, that the leases...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u156	I've got the chart here! You can copy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u157	Okay, sir, but I can't see the numbers from here. But starting from your chart, it's very easy. You are giving me figures for a period between 2010 and 2016. As your law was passed at the end of 2012, half is from the previous law, the law of 2006, of the PS. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] It may not be half. And I'll tell you why. It's because the norm wasn't that. In 2011, what the Census gave us in respect of the number of properties on the lease market was as follows : 33 % of leases prior to 1990 ; 20 % of leases between 1991 and 2005 ; and 47 % of leases from 2006 to 2011. So something the law of 2006 has done, so it is not worth trying to deceive us with those numbers that now bring about the city of Lisbon. With regard to the other issue you have raised here, on affordable income, Mr. Deputies, we are here mixing discussions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u158	We're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u159	We are, we are! We have here—I said it, I have said it publicly and it is written in the PS Basic Law project—two different concepts of affordable lease. There is a concept of affordable lease that is in the PS Basic Law, that we will discuss at the right time and that I put in public discussion, under which the affordable lease... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] Let me finish, Mr. Deputies! As I said, under this PS Basic Law, affordable lease is the one that does not exceed an effort rate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u160	Mrs Deputy, it has already exceeded widely not the time available for the reply but the time available for the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u161	I know, Madam President. But I can also reply to the honourable Member elsewhere, in the corridors of this House, I have no problem. If Mrs. President lets me finish, I'll finish, if not...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u162	Madam Member, the Socialist Party no longer has time, but would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u163	Mr President, the affordable lease is the one that is compatible with the income of families. This is what is stated in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u164	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to draw attention to the presence, in the diplomatic corps gallery, of a delegation composed of the following individuals: Mr. President of the Global Council for Tolerance and Peace, Mr. Ambassador of the Republic of Yemen to the Portuguese Republic, Mr. Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates in Lisbon, Mr. Special Adviser to the Great Imam of the University of Al-Azhar in Cairo, Mr. Regional Counsellor for Youth of the United Nations Population Fund, Mr. Special Adviser to the President of the Global Council for Tolerance and Peace and also Mr. Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce and Arab Industry - Portuguese. For them I ask for a special greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The story of urban renting in Portugal is a tragic film with more than 100 years old. Decades of successive income freezes, obstacles to opposition to the renewal of contracts and an insufficient response from the judicial system culminated in a degradation of the built park, an increasing number of devolved houses and an urban expansion to the outskirts of the cities. We all remember the historic centers of Lisbon and Porto: they were uninhabited places, with returned buildings, in ruins or with bad living conditions. However, the New Urban Rent Legal Regime, approved in 2012, combined with other reforms, allowed us to initiate the reversal of this sad reality. Yes, the reform was taking its course and the statistical reality proves it - plus 266 000 new leases, in 2016, and 84 000, in 2017. Yes, these results could be better, if not the case of the parliamentary left had protected the freezing of income so as not to pay the income allowance due to the elderly and people with disabilities. Yes, these results could be better not be given the case of Mrs. Mariana Mortágua saying that it was necessary to lose the shame of going to get money to whom she was amassing money, and that sentence was born the additional IMI. Yes, despite the withdrawal of the last year, by virtue of those decisions, from 2012 there became a lease market that had hardly existed before. Incentives to the establishment of citizens of other nationalities, foreign investment in the real estate market, the tourism boom that has driven local housing, and not the other way around, have contributed decisively to the country's economic growth, but have put new conditionalities on the lease market. The first misunderstanding of the parliamentary left is not to realize that the problem is not, never was, the law of urban lease of 2012, it is the new reality that demands a new approach. The second mistake is to point out solutions to always thinking about the macrocephaly of Lisbon and Porto, forgetting that the country is not only Lisbon and Porto. [[PSD applause.]] The third misconception of the parliamentary left is to turn solutions to the demand side when attention has to be focused on the supply side. to the mistakes, the parliamentary left adds its deep ideological prejudice against private property, clearly in defending the protection of the freezing of incomes, the imposition of vital contracts, the guaranteed renewal of contracts, the prohibition of evictions and this unheard measure called « temporary property requirement», which is no more than a return to the past, as has already been said, to Gonçalvism, at the time of the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course). [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u166	The State, the largest owner in Portugal, with thousands of devolved and degraded property, which does not treat or care for what is its own, will, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, be able to expropriate by force the owners to resolve, on behalf of those, a problem that is theirs and only theirs. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u167	That's not what's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u168	This is what distinguishes us from the parliamentary left: we do not implement public housing policies at the expense of the private or the municipalities, we do not turn landlords into extensions of social security, we are not against the landlords. And yes, I repeat, we defend the tenants, especially the elderly and the disabled. And yes, we defend that this protection is made by the hands of the State itself and not by the imposition of the State. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our proposals, the proposals of the Social Democratic Party, are thinking about the country as a whole, are thinking about the dynamization of the lease market, are thinking about the value of legislative stability, are thinking about social accessibility, are thinking about tenants, are thinking about landlords, are thinking about all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u169	With no further inscriptions, it is obviously up to the CDS to close this debate. To that end, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u170	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the PSD Parliamentary Group for the time allocated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I believe that three different types of attitudes have become very clear that the various parliamentary groups have faced a problem that is serious, that is serious and that affects many Portuguese people. from the CDS and also from the Social Democratic Party, understanding that reality is dynamic and understanding that any human work is improved, we sought to submit proposals constructively so that, by improving the law, if we could also improve people's lives and solve problems. This is a constructive, democratically humble attitude of those who do not think they have the monopoly of reason, much less of the heart, but believe that there are laws that can and should be adapted to the dynamics of reality and thus presented their proposals. After that, we had the usual posture. — the PCP and the Left Block, a conservative, immobilist attitude, in which everything that can be improved is wrong, in which everything that can in any way bring innovation is in the sense of harming. The first of the only two things which are, in fact, clear today in relation to the the thesis of the PCP and the Block is that, after all, the famous law of the removals of Assumption Cristas resulted in 0, 6 % of the 730 000 contracts. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u171	0, 6 % of 730 000. Repeat, 0, 6% of 730,000! Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u172	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u173	But there is something even more surprising: we have seen, here, the PCP and Block in an accrual defense of the New State's linkage, and this, yes, is the great novelty of the debate. Don't stop being extraordinary, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is 0, 6 % of 730 000, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the results of the clearance law. Take a good look at the nonsense they're talking about! Open... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And then there is the Socialist Party's position, which is still curious, because here in Parliament, as it is harassed on its left, tries in some way to make its speech more squeaky, which makes the Secretary of State of the House and the Government have to come to deny the PS Parliamentary Group in the newspapers, and to reassure people by saying: "We have nothing against tenants, we want to make reforms with tenants".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u174	And with the lords!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u175	It's extraordinary, sirs. Members, this is what can be called a real 'trapism' from a political point of view. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Helena Roseta, Mrs. Members of the PS, your measures and, above all, your speech are bringing uncertainty, they are bringing insecurity and this is serious because it can back us at the time of bonding, at the time of frozen incomes, at the time of deserted cities. I advise them, and I believe that it will be so, that from today on we can have a serious, deep debate, choosing the best proposals, no matter where they come from, because there is a law that can be improved. Let's get to work! That is our position, that is the position of the Social Democratic Party. They're still in time, gentlemen. PS Members, and here is the invitation to come up with what is problem solving and not just trying to explore human feelings. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u176	Come with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-10.u177	This concludes this debate, scheduled for CDS-PP marking, as well as our agenda today. Tomorrow we will have a plenary meeting with a very extensive agenda, which I would like to remind you of. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary will begin at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. There are seven points we will have in our agenda tomorrow, which will start with a current debate under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme of the situation of health professionals in the National Health Service, by marking the PCP. The second point consists of discussion of Bill No. 855 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to the Framework Law on Environmental Controls, in order to establish the principle of the non-pre-announcement of inspection and supervision actions ( The Greens ), in general, and in the assessment of draft resolution No 1579/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government step up the adoption of measures to enable more efficient inspection procedures for economic operators ( NAPs ). in the third point of the agenda will be discussed draft resolutions 1436 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate Law No 38 / 2004 of 18 August, defining the specific terms in which private employers should fill the 2 % employment share of persons with disabilities ( PSD ), 1437 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an assessment of the application of Decree-Law No 29 / 2001 of 3 February establishing the system of employment quotas for persons with disabilities, with a degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60 %, in the services and bodies of the central and local administration ( PSD ), 1570 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of public employment for persons with disabilities and measures to access vocational training and employment with rights ( CFP ), 1581/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures contributing to the improvement of employability of persons with disabilities ( PAN) and 1593 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring the application of employment quotas for persons with disabilities ( The Greens ), together with the projects of lein.o 860 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the extraordinary program of entry of persons with disabilities into the Public Administration ( PEIPDAP ) ( CDS-PP ) and 861 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a requirement to hire 2 % of workers with functional diversity ( BE) in general. As a fourth item on the agenda, we will generally have discussion of draft law No 865 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives ( PS ). The fifth point was followed with the discussion of draft resolution No 1479/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent mass eviction in the towers of the Loyalty Insurance Company in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ) ( BE ) of the sixth point is the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 828 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replacement of the term of validity of driving letters of categories EC, D1, D1E, D, DE for the 65 years of age ( second amendment to the Regulation on Legal Authorisation to Conduct, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 138 / 2012 of 5 July, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ) ( PCP ) and 862 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the change in the age limit of the driving licence for drivers of categories D1, D1E, D, DE, and EC, as amended by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ( BE ), in general, and of draft resolutions 520 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the right to reform without penalties for professions with age limit for their exercise ( PCP ) and 1592 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the age limit for the exercise of the occupation of heavy vehicles driver and guarantee of non-criminalisation in the value of the retirement pension ( The Greens ). in the seventh point of our agenda we will have the discussion of draft resolution No 1560 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers ( BE ). in the end, there will be a regiment vote. Thus, our work is completed. I wish the Members and the Members a good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 17 minutes.]]
