ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Mrs. Members, today's session, as is known to all, is marked by a positive agenda of the CDS-PP, in which we will generally assess the projects of lein.o 783/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ( CDS-PP ), 784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace - Competition, Organization and Operation ( CDS-PP ), 785 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ( CDS-PP ), 786 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters ( CDS-PP ), 787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law, and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( CDS-PP ) and 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals — the creation of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges ( CDS-PP ). These diplomas will be discussed together with draft resolutions 885 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve the legal diploma defining the cases, forms and terms in which administrative acts may be enforced strictly by the administration, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 4 / 2015 of 7 January, which approved the Code of Administrative Procedure ( CDS-PP ), 1291 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the report on the multi-annual strategy for requalification and modernization of the prison system in September 2017 in plenary of the Assembly and submit a proposal for an investment programming law in the prison park ( CDS-PP ), 1355 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement Article 182. the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals in matters of administrative arbitration ( CDS-PP ), 1356 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reassessment and revision of the Action Plan + Next, taking into account the measures proposed in the Agreements for the Justice System document of January 2018 ( CDS-PP ), 1357 / XIII ( 3 ). — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with the aim of studying the revision of the General System of Contraordinations contained in Decree-Law No 433 / 82 of 27 October ( CDS-PP ) and 1362 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a commission to review criminal legislation, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to study and implement a compliance control system to define the criminal liability of legal persons ( CDS-PP ). To present these initiatives, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March 2016, in Gondomar, Assumption Cristas closed the Congress where it had just been elected leader defining CDS priorities for the next two years — health, pension system, family, education, employment and business, banking regulation and supervision, security and justice. In September 2016, Mr. President of the Republic opened the judicial year leaving a call for understanding between the judicial agents and the political parties, which became known by the Covenant on Justice. In January 2018, the officers of the justice system completed their work and put together agreements for the justice system. From March 2016 until now, the CDS traced exactly the path that it had then traced. We studied and worked on all the subjects we proposed : from demographic and active ageing to the basic law of education, terrorism or financial supervision, all these subjects were targeted by the CDS. Today, we are presenting the proposals for justice. Today, on 1 March 2018, the CDS not only meets its objective, as is the first to respond to the challenge launched by Mr. President of the Republic, presenting a variety of proposals in the field of justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Although apparently dense and some even bulky, the proposals we bring today do not intend to make a revolution in the justice system and much less bring a whole « admirable new world». These are more or less timely changes in various areas of justice—some even surgical—and proposals that develop systems, uniformize and update processes. Several small things that, at the end of the day, can make a difference in the lives of Portuguese. All of these initiatives result from a deep and structured reflection that we have done within and outside the Parliamentary Group, listening to several experts in each area, with or without party affiliation, and not necessarily from the CDS — people who do not have the slightest concern about the symbol or the partisan color and whose only purpose is to contribute to a better Portugal. It should be noted that many of the initiatives we have brought here are nothing more than the natural evolution of reforms which, in recent times, have been done in justice, some of them, in fact, with very positive results. Just look at the numbers of the last five years, in which for the first time since 2009 the ratio of civil processes entered and ended is positive. That is, since 2013, there are more finished processes than entries, which reveals the recovery in delays. More: from 2014 to 2015, expectations in the civil courts of 1. the institution has experienced a decrease in the order of 8 %, which reached 13 % 2015 to 2016. However, and despite these advances, the perception that justice continues to be bad and slow is unfortunately not denied by the same numbers: on 31 December 2016 they continued pending in the civil courts of 1. the instance of more than 1 million processes, with an average duration of two years and nine months. This is, from the beginning of the trial to the sentence, on average, each process takes almost three years without talking about resources. Even worse is the situation in the administrative and fiscal courts. The ratio of processes entered and ended is quite negative, with a very worrying accumulation rate. In fact, on 31 December 2015, the entry of proceedings exceeded the number of final cases by 20 % and it is certain that, with the means currently available to us, it would be necessary for a year to have about 1000 days — the threefold of a year, therefore — to be able to recover all delays. We know that it is not all done, we know that there is still a long way to go, and above all, we know that justice is viewed with mistrust by much of the Portuguese, who feel that it does not give an answer or is too late. For this reason, we intend to present six bills and six draft resolutions, which play, cross-sectionally, several areas of justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are five axes that we define for a greater objective, the confidence in the justice system, a plan that we hope will be common to all in this House. Simplification, speed, effectiveness, transparency and guarantees of citizens are the axes that the CDS has chosen as priority for this set of initiatives. I'm going to exemplify them, to clarify what we saw. As regards simplification, I highlight two amendments: the provision of oral sentences, given immediately at the end of the trial hearing, and the consecration of the rule of written statements. One and the other make the process much more agile and easier and avoid, in the case of sentences, the expectation — sometimes agonizing — of the judge’s verdict. in the case of written statements, it not only frees the witnesses from the calvary of waiting by the courts corridors, as it allows the judge to determine, more easily and quickly, the proof to which they are intended. However, these are not closed or hermetic rules. It is, of course, permitted that the parties or the judge call on witnesses to file on facts that they have doubts or that sentences are transcribed whenever the cause is complex or that parts of it wish to appeal. As far as speed is concerned, we have recovered the idea of the establishment of judges' scholarships to resolve the proceedings that have been held for more than five years in administrative courts or more than EUR 1 million in the case of pending tax proceedings. In addition, we propose the referral for arbitration, at the request of individuals, of administrative and tax proceedings which have been stopped for more than two years, for what is necessary, in the case of administrative arbitration, that the Government regulates, which we also propose. In addition, more permanent measures, both in the administrative and fiscal process and in the field of civil justice, such as the establishment of judgments specialized in administrative and tax courts, allow the simpler causes to be separated from the most complex, and the obligation to submit the causes of their competence to the judges of peace. We understand that the judges of peace must be a real alternative to the courts, withdrawing from them the most simple issues. Then, in the courts of peace, questions relating to condominiums or contracts may be judged, giving only two examples, and it is true that for that reason the government not only needs to extend its network, as some conditions, including the training of peace judges, will have to be reviewed. It is well noted that, like what happens in the courts, the constitution of a lawyer for cases greater than 5000 € is required, and all decisions can be reviewed from the 2500 €. In other words, it is simply treating what is simple, not reducing the guarantees that the parties currently have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The effectiveness of this is achieved by the hiring of specialized advisors for magistrates' support offices, which must be formed quickly, at least where there is a greater need — i.e. the administrative and fiscal courts and the trade courts — or by setting management objectives in administrative and fiscal courts, with quarterly control of dependencies and, of course, with the development of technological and digital means, which we also urge the Government to increase. with regard to transparency, we propose two very simple but revealing things. First, we propose that the Government, as it happens annually with internal security, submit a report on the state of justice to the President of the Republic and to the Assembly of the Republic. This report shall contain information on dependencies, installations and human and material resources. in the background, it should condense the information dispersed by several reports and allow strict scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic. Secondly, we propose that you submit another report on the prison system which informs you of the conditions for the arrest of prisoners and facilities, the planned investments and the human and material resources allocated. I quote that the need for these reports is meridianly evident, but for the most distracted or unwary, I merely recall the news that came out two days ago that realizes that the Committee on the Prevention of Torture has made a very negative portrait of Portuguese prisons and that therefore deserves particular attention from all of us, so scrutiny is an essential element. Finally, and no less important, I point out three guarantees for citizens who seem to have brought about precautionary justice: to unlock, within 10 days, excessive amounts when there are penorals of several bank deposits, subject to civil liability for those who do not do so; to extend the possibilities of challenging the decisions of the Tax Authority or the establishment of a committee to review criminal legislation, in particular to review the rules of the secret of justice or to set a maximum time limit for the length of the interrogation of the defendant. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything will be consensual, not everything will be absolutely right and not everything will be immediately feasible and much less we intend to think that only we know or that only we are going to bring about good solutions. What we want to do is leave our contribution to improve the quality of Portuguese justice, for faster, more effective justice, and that, above all, does not leave the feeling that there is no remedy anymore. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Many of the measures we are proposing now, or which we have proposed in the past and which were waiting precisely for this debate, refer to the draft resolution we tabled last year on access to law and the regulation of judicial costs, are the mirror of what the agents of the justice system have identified as priority in the agreements for the justice system. The first challenge of the President of the Republic has thus been met, and we must now continue and accept his second challenge. On the question that the President of the Republic has left at the opening of the judicial year — 'will it be so difficult for political parties to reach consensus, I will not say in the 89 proposals, in many of the proposals put forward? Do not keep on seeking. ” — the CDS responds « present», in particular to the hopes of the Portuguese and says « yes» to the understanding platforms that are necessary to do in the name of a greater well. No, the CDS does not wait for 2019 to speak, join efforts, promote convergences, define and try to avenge objectives; it is before this House today, in March 2018, with an open mind and willing to help build a better future. Let us join the question of Mr President of the Republic in our question: what answer do you have to give to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who make up this majority? It's time for her to be given. It's her we're waiting for now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u3	The Bureau noted the inclusion of four Mrs for requests for clarification. Members, to whom Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, according to the Bureau, will answer two to two. You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u4	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I welcome the CDS for having scheduled this debate and brought to the House one of the most important policies of our democratic life. The honourable Member has introduced her speech by saying that — and I quote — « today we are presenting the CDS proposals for justice ». in fact, this agenda appeared in parliamentary life creating a huge expectation. The announcement of the marking of this debate, as Mrs Deputies reminded us, was made by Mrs Assunção Cristas at the end of the CDS parliamentary days and it was anticipated that in the initiatives presented the main pillars of the justice policy proposed by the CDS and a response to the President of the Republic's calls for centrality to be given to justice in public debate and political confrontation. That's what was expected. However, we must agree, Mrs Deputies, that, given the six draft laws and the six draft resolutions presented to us by the CDS, frustration in the face of these expectations is a feeling I want to express here, because it is only a set of adjustments, with different merits, at least from our point of view, but without what could be called a background driving line with a whole view on what should be the essential of justice policy in Portugal. I would say to the honourable Member, probably in anticipation of this reading—let us know why! — that are several small things that can make a big difference. They're too small, mrs. It was therefore worth it, indeed, that in small things the great things that a policy of justice should be made clear. Let me tell you, with all honesty, that in this matter and with this formula, the CDS is very similar to what the PSD has been in the last few days, because we found that the new PSD leader came to announce to the country, with pump and circumstance, as he did, that justice would clearly be one of the essential domains of a new era that would come there. In fact, he corroborated this statement with the indication to the vice-president of the party of someone who was known to have been involved in a criminal proceedings against the PSD government precisely because of the justice policy. I came there, so, big thing! But so far, without any definition, no priority, no driving line, nothing that might look like that. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, there is something that seems clear to us and that the news today has already become clear: "The package of justice: CDS responds to Marcelo and anticipates Rio". That's it! It is indeed a move of anticipation, with all legitimacy, obviously. It is a championship between the CDS and the PSD, and in this championship you will understand-CL-it will be the best way you want. It is not, however, the championship of justice that the country needs, and that is what we should be discussing today. In view of this empty PSD, the CDS anticipates itself, marks a positive agenda, presents bills and draft resolutions of very different value and therefore the question that I leave it is: before the statement of priorities that it left us here — simplification, efficiency, transparency, speed— nothing about access, nothing about training, nothing about governance of justice, nothing about the rights of the weakest in insolvency processes. Nothing, Mrs. Deputy! I'd like to hear about everything—and that's so much! — which is not essential in these CDS proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I would like to announce that you are among us, in the diplomatic corps gallery, Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany, to whom you would ask for a greeting from the House. [[General applause, stand up.]] I would also like to say that it is the Bureau's intention to allow parliamentary groups to manage their times as they understand. Therefore, they will use the times in the way they best approve them, in requests for clarification and interventions, provided that they do not exceed the time they are allocated. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep the noise of the Chamber a little bit lower. Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade also gave the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, brings us a picture of the justice in which the slow factor is relatively consensual and traditional, but this portrait refers data from 2015 because, indeed, are the latest data available. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the shortcomings of the laws, there is also something that is normally necessary to order proceedings and to make judgments: magistrates. Judicial magistrates do a great deal of work in order to order proceedings and to make judgments. in this respect, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, at the end of 2015, it refers to having completed four years in which the CEJ (Centro de Estudios Judiciarios), during that time opened vacancies for the entrance of 160 judges. in the last three years — which refer to the three years of this government — 380 vacancies have been opened, which is indeed the limit of the ECJ's training capacity. Which means that this government, in this matter, does not regret having judges in the justice system, did more than twice as much in less time than the previous government did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact — and your projects refer, for example, to the way in which the State, in particular the tax sector, contributes to the laxity through litigation — that the laws do not come, because it requires the goodwill of governments, the administration, to apply them. For example, in the past legislature, very laudably, this Assembly of the Republic approved an amendment to the General Tax Law providing that tax administration should, whenever possible, comply with the uniform case law of the courts and therefore cease to dispute consistently against jurisprudence. It is very commendable, but it was necessary that the political command of the tax administration — which by chance belonged to the CDS — had been carried out as standard. Recently, the Supreme Administrative Court noted that the inaugural order to comply with this standard in 2013 was very commendable, but this inaugural order does not belong to the State Secretary of the CDS of the previous Government, it belongs to another State Secretary of the current Government of the Republic. Therefore, even if there are good legislative intentions, governments need to act in the same direction as those intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u8	Mrs Deputy, there are 12 projects with many and distinct proposals and perhaps with little consistency. There are many with whom, at first reading, I agree; there are many who seem useless, in which it moves too much in articles apparently just to make improvements or, sometimes, clarifications, I believe, with pure uselessness. It will be necessary to reiterate, through the CPPT ( Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ), that the Code of Civil Procedure is a subsidiary norm for anything when Article 2. the same code already says that the subsidiary rule is for everything? Is the oral sentence that you refer to in your speech so different from the sentence read out by references that already exists in the Code of Civil Procedure and is practised? Then there are questions that deserve our reservation or our non-compliance. Our reservation deserves the proposed model of the Government to monitor, together with the higher councils, the actions of the courts. It seems to us that, in implementing this monitoring model as it is, there is a problem there of any constitutional configuration. We deserve immense reservations about the way in which peace judges no longer act as an alternative method of conflict resolution to become a forced method of conflict resolution and, therefore, become a court. We deserve a lot of reservations about how in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction we intend to address the shortcomings of the system by privatizing, in the background, the arbitration of tax justice. In fact, in this respect, the CDS is the true stereotype of the right: in the government it dries public resources so that the public system does not work and then proposes the privatization of these same public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mrs. Member, perhaps the fundamental question is the following: I believe the CDS has been working on these projects since the beginning of 2016, but they have entered last Friday. And who, on Friday, had taken the projects to read them came to the end of Monday and saw that the texts of these same projects had been replaced by other texts. Therefore, it is not possible to make any in-depth and thoughtful debate, no conscious position taken by the parliamentary groups without having time to analyze the number of projects, time to talk to the agents, time for the various discussions. And that time did not exist for a reason, confessed in the CDS intervention: the question of CDS was to be the first, the question of CDS was, in this championship to the right of the proposals of justice, to say "we put our flag here. That was the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u9	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u10	The various parliamentary groups, in 1. the Commission, as you know, in the light of the justice pact, have also decided with the CDS's favourable vote that a set of hearings would be held, not only to the entities that participated in the drafting of the pact but also to the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We believe that the proposals for justice deserve this careful debate, this debate which took place before the adoption of a position. So my question, Madam Member, is very simple: is the CDS available not to force a vote on these projects today or tomorrow and to allow them to go down to the Commission without a vote, in order to contribute to a debate which we all unanimously have already decided to do? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u11	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor. I was still calling on the Members and the Members to speak again. Members to keep quiet, because the background noise is immense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u12	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr Rocha Andrade for their questions. Starting with the questions raised by Mr José Manuel Pureza, who made us some criticisms, I would like to tell you that, for a lot of criticism so great, you have a waste of proposals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u13	So you had to have proposals to come and talk to us and talk about what's right, what's wrong and what might be better. You also say that we don't have a driver axis. But we have five axes. If you say that these five are not important, that simplification is not important, then that burden is with you. You say speed isn't important? Does it say that transparency is not important? Does it say that effectiveness is not important? Does it say that citizens' guarantees are not important? Mr President, for us these are truly important things that give confidence to the justice system. If you are not important, submit your proposals and say what is important, because that is what we are waiting for. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have begun this dialogue with the same will, i.e., to engage in a constructive dialogue. We're willing to do this here. The ones that you are. Members have to do it is to bring your proposals to talk about them, because that is what we want and that makes all the sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u14	That'll be it! We don't have championships with anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u15	Moreover, we have been working on these proposals for several months and some of them have been presented earlier, Mr President. He criticised us that we do not have a word for access to the right or the regulation of costs. We have Mr. Deputy. It's stopped at 1st. the Commission, a draft resolution we tabled a year ago, which you did not do because you did not want to touch on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u16	We've got, we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u17	We introduced it a year ago, even before anyone came to talk about it, because we had this concern and we knew very well that this was a problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And you know as well as we do that formal rules do not allow us to present the same thing twice. That is why this trick is not valid, Mr President. Mr. Rocha Andrade, I have listened very carefully. I agree with you : judges give a lot of way. And I'm glad there's more judges, there's a few things missing. For example, the status of judges is lacking. The gentlemen. Magistrates wait and despair, because you never set him down again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u18	Exactly! [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u19	What is more, I mean, I really like to hear about the criticisms that PS makes in the area of justice. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because if we look at what this government has done in the area of justice, there are two things to show. One is the reactivation of the courts, which is a little thing, even by what the professionals in the area and the citizens have been saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u20	The courts that you have closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u21	There are several reports in this regard, saying that, after all, it was not a proper reopening. Yeah, no! We know it wouldn't be, and you should know it too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u22	It was a trick!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u23	And there is something else that can show, that it is the nearest justice, that it has fifty and such measures fulfilled of the 150 that were promised. Mr. Deputies, it's not bad, but it's not enough for anything, Mr. Justice officers, who have in the Justice Pact more than 15 measures relating to technological and information systems. So if these are the only two things that you understand to be done in the area of justice — that's what you have done for two and a half years, and it's the Minister who says so on every side — it's very little, very short. The CDS has much more ambition and believes that much more needs to be done than that to reach all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that we are absolutely available — something which I have already told Mr José Manuel Pureza — to speak with you. Bring us your proposals, come them! The honourable Member has also made us very critical, saying that we wanted to bring the flag. Mr President, we do not want to bring any flag, but I was so angry with our flag that it really seemed that whoever wanted to bring it was you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u25	So, honourable Member, in this area, we have few concerns about what the symbol is on the paper; what we care about is the Portuguese and what they are told.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u27	Mr President, tell us what, from our proposals, can be accepted by you. We will also meet you when you put forward proposals. Let's talk, have that will. Do something for justice, something you haven't done in recent times. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u28	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u29	Mr President, Mrs Vânia Dias da Silva, the presentation of proposals in the field of justice is very relevant, it is a worthwhile purpose, indeed, it is necessary for us to have very serious discussions on fundamental issues affecting the justice system and the functioning of justice, but we must recognise that there are times when the form may harm the content. We will appreciate the proposals presented here by the CDS-PP for its merit and, therefore, we will vote in accordance with the agreements and disagreements we may have with regard to what is presented, but we should agree that the way in which this package of initiatives is presented does not favour it. We can understand the reasons for the CDS on parliamentary tactics. That is to say, we know that there have been important meetings between the various actors in the justice system, who have reached important agreements on matters related to the functioning of justice, we know of the public appeal made by the President of the Republic in this regard and we realize that there may be, on the part of the parliamentary groups, a certain desire to be the first to present proposals, seeking to correspond to that appeal and thus gain media and parliamentary space. We can see this from the point of view of Parliamentary tactics, although, in our perspective, this is not essentially what moves us. We can also see, from the point of view of Parliamentary tactics, the idea that we can make an agenda on this subject and then present the initiatives only on the eve of the day. We can understand, because there is a certain tendency to copy each other's initiatives and, therefore, there may be here an anticopy tactic on the part of the CDS. We can understand this, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u30	That's even good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u31	Now, this is not in fact the best form of the Assembly of the Republic to legislate on the justice system, because this set of initiatives contains draft resolutions, on which we can say that, from our point of view, they are not relevant, and bills that, whether we agree with them or not, have a lot of relevance. Significant amendments to the Civil Procedure Code or to the tax procedure legislation, in our opinion, should not be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic without the reports of the committees, in particular of 1. the Commission and its technical note as well as the hearings concerning this relevance and this nature. That is why we say that the way in which these initiatives are presented, in retrospect and on the eve of being scheduled in plenary, for assessment and vote in general, is not the best way for the Assembly of the Republic to deal with matters of justice, with attention which is due to such transcendent and with such great relevance. In order to say that, when we are confronted with 12 initiatives, presented a few days ago by the CDS and to be appreciated today, on matters with so much relevance, we have the idea, right or wrong, that the general principle that guided the CDS in this debate was that, in terms of initiatives, it is cheaper. However, we do not think that this is the best way for the Assembly to discuss these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u32	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u33	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, first of all, I would like to welcome the CDS-PP for the presentation of these 12 legislative initiatives on justice. The PSD naturally recognises that justice has a central role in democracy and social stability itself and crosses all public and private institutions. The country's own credibility and competitiveness are directly linked, too, to the proper functioning of justice. I would also like to take advantage of my speech to greet all those who, following a challenge launched by Mr President of the Republic at the opening of the judicial year in 2016, have achieved an unprecedented consensus, an important consensus — they have established agreements, they have established principles — indeed, a true pact of justice, which is indeed relevant to our justice. In fact, let me say that the document in question, of the judicial officers, deserves, on our part, the greatest commendations from the PSD, even because we understand that this can also be a way forward for other sectors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this pact effectively addresses several issues and proposes important changes in matters such as the organization of the courts, the cost of access to justice by the Portuguese, the cost of enforcement of the judgments of the courts, the collection of debts and economic justice, which are always aimed at simplifying and guaranteeing access to justice by the citizens, in addition to protecting them. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, allow me to focus on the project on peace judges. The law of the peace judges, as we all know, suffered the first amendment in 2013 and this amendment was effectively aimed at strengthening the approximation of justice to the citizens, by giving greater competence to the peace judges, eliminating situations of deforestation and thus strengthening the confidence of the citizens in these institutions with these real changes. But the CDS-PP proposes today a second amendment to the law of the peace judges and it is on these amendments that I want to concentrate - in fact, I will concentrate only on one of them, which is the one which establishes the mandatory jurisdiction of the peace judges in matters for which they are competent, in the councils or groups of councils where they already exist. The truth is that, and it must be said here, in this Chamber, this law does not contain any express norm that defines whether the competence of peace judges is alternative or exclusive. And, Mrs Vânia Dias da Silva, although, for a long time, the caselaw has been divided on the competence of the peace judges, in order to know whether it was alternative or exclusive, the question was settled in a Supreme Court judgment which eventually uniformized case law, clarifying that jurisdiction is alternative to courts of competing territorial jurisdiction. Moreover, adding even more, the Law itself of the Organisation of the Judicial System, too, leaves no doubt, because it is quite enlightening, Mrs. Member, the Law states that the judges of peace effectively constitute an alternative form of dispute resolution. Therefore, the question which I would like to leave here to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva concerns precisely this aspect of the competence of the peace judges, even taking into account that, when the first amendment to the law of the judges in peace in 2013 was the Communist Party which tabled an amendment in this sense, but the CDS-PP then voted against. Therefore, my question is essentially about this, Mrs Deputies: why this change in the position of the CDS on this matter and on the competence of the peace judges. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u34	You now have the floor to answer, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u35	Mr President, Mr António Filipe and Mrs Andreia Neto, thank you for your questions. I should like to begin at the end with Mrs Andreia Neto's questions and also, like what she did in her speech, by welcoming the agents of justice, who, in fact, have already welcomed the presentation of the 12 diplomas we have brought here, by the understanding that they have reached, a historical understanding that must continue and that we value and understand that it is to be welcomed. I would like to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that I fully understand the question that leaves us with regard to the peace judges. And I understand some concerns of some professional class on this issue, but this issue, Mrs Deputies, in our opinion, is being put in the wrong way. First of all, Mrs Deputies, we have evolved in our position. Yes, we have evolved, and we have no problem saying it, because we studied, heard, consulted and realized that this was an important road to speed, which is one of the essential axes, that everyone is demanding, in the matter of justice. As for the peace judges, I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that you will see that there are many mechanisms similar to the peace judges and that the simplest issues are dealt with in places where the treatment of these issues is simpler and cheaper. That is precisely what we propose. What we propose is that, with all the guarantees that the parties currently have in the courts of 1. the instance, the competence is transferred to the judges of peace exactly under the same conditions. What does this mean, Your Honor? It means that what we propose is that, in the cases for which, today, the judges of peace already have jurisdiction, and as well as I know, they are only mandatory or real causes—for people to understand, they are smaller contracts and causes, with a value of up to 15 000 euros—the jurisdiction of the judges of peace, in areas where peace is effectively judged. In addition, we propose that the judges of peace have a little more muscular formation, so that they can do their work more forcefully. But we also propose that, like what happens in the courts of 1. the court, the parties must be a lawyer when the case exceeds EUR 5000, exactly as is the case in the courts, and that, from EUR 2500, there is a possibility of appeal, as is already the case in the courts of 1. the instance, where it is only possible to appeal from 2500 euros. So here, the difference is no, Mrs. Member. What's the difference? Separate the simplest causes and place them in the places where they are treated in a simpler way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u37	... speeding up and speeding up justice. As regards the guarantees of the parties, they are exactly the same, I repeat, exactly the same. So don't look at this question and arouse it in the way it has aroused it, it seems to us to be a little bit of prejudice. Moreover, we also understand that if the judges of peace consider that they do not serve, then the judges of peace must be extinct, since duplication of structures and costs does not serve anyone well. This is our opinion. I would also like to tell you that we understand the position of the court, but this position was taken in the light of what was the law then in force. What now? Now, what we propose is an amendment to the law. This is the supreme power we have: if we want to change the law, obviously the court will bind-CL and that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u39	I would now like to say to Mr António Filipe, thanking him again for the questions he has left us, which sometimes seems that you have not done the housework and, therefore, then, remain like the bad students, worried about hiding your hand and saying, "We have been caught. Now, what are we gonna do? Let's accuse the others! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, what I have to tell you in this area is that the CDS presented its proposals in good time, in fact, in what is established by all of us. If you haven't had time to read and study, that's a problem that isn't about the CDS, it's a PCP problem and who elected the PCP, it's nobody else in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u40	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u41	Therefore, you have no proposals, and I know you have not yet, but we have been working on this for a long time. If you had done the housework, like us, we could probably be here now to engage in a dialogue of parties, with all the proposals on the table. But we are here to wait, we are here to dialogue, we are here to do the best for justice and, therefore, we are absolutely willing to wait for all the gentlemen in this House, let's hope they don't take long and don't leave for 2019 what they can do in 2018. The honourable Member criticised us for presenting 12 projects, saying that «Twelfth is cheaper», but he also said that he knew it was not why. Mr President, I can also tell you that we did not want it to be 13 because 13 could give us a chance. [[Laughter of PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] So we understand that the best was to be 12, but it wasn't because it was cheaper, in fact. It was because we understood that it was what was necessary, because we understood that this was our way, because we understood that it was more effective. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u42	As there are no further entries for requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to note with pleasure the availability of the CDS to accept that this discussion has its own time, with the serenity and rationale that this matter requires. in this intervention, I want to focus on the issues that we consider essential and critically analyze the proposals presented by the CDS here. Before it is a matter, let us say, of technical concern, that the debate on justice must of course be a debate on purposes and that is what I would like to say at this time. For the Left Block, any debate about justice has to point to an essential support and four axes of materialization of this support. The essential support must be only the fundamental reference to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Any policy for justice must ensure, in practice, the primacy of the Constitution and its model. And, therefore, from our point of view, it has to point to the realization of a national justice service that is inspired by the model we have adopted, and well, in relation to the National Health Service. This has four axes of materialization: first, universal access, and that is why it is so important the question of legal support, the question of legal costs and the question of the judicial map. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u44	Secondly, the human resources for justice to function properly, judicial officials. This is an essential issue for a justice policy which is the policy worthy of a public service for our country. Thirdly, a substantial change to prison and prison practice in Portugal. Let me say, frankly, that in this regard we welcome the proposal presented by the CDS. It is a correct proposal to bring to plenary the report which was published by the Government on this subject, because it is a report that must be taken seriously. We therefore welcome this initiative, as we also welcome the proposal for an investment programming law in infrastructures in this area — we support this purpose. Fourthly, a training of judicial actors. Any debate on justice that does not affect the formation of judicial actors is a debate that lacks an essential part of what is needed. With regard to the CDS proposals, I wanted to make three or four fundamental observations. First, we understand that there are several initiatives that propose what already exists. For example, offices supporting judges, a possibility which is already covered by the law, or, on the other hand, the penalty for sanctioning contracts, which is also provided for in the law, so this proposal is in some way redundant. Secondly, we would like to express our particular reservations about the intensity with which proposals for informalization and dejudicialisation are made. We understand that it is a very risky path, particularly in terms of arbitral settlement, because even in tax matters, and above all in tax matters, it can prove to be a prize, a bonus, to which it feeds the laziness that harms the weakest part. And so it may come to be not as a beneficial solution but as a prize to the offender. Even in this area, in the reform proposed or in the guidelines for the reform of the civil process presented by the CDS, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in our view there is a reduction in guarantees that are disturbing. In particular, the hypothesis of the oral sentence, of course for the simplest proceedings, offers us the greatest doubts as to the rigour of the decision and thus the rights of defence of the party to be condemned. Two more comments. We are also moving away from some of the proposals that the CDS makes about peace judges, because, on the one hand, they do not essentially touch on the question of the means and on the question of the enlargement of the network at national level, and on the other, they present solutions which, moreover, seem to us, I must say, of dubious constitutionality. For example, the question of exclusive competence in general matters, let us say that, it seems to us to be a solution of dubious constitutionality, to say things in the softest way I can. The requirement of a law teacher for peace judges also seems to me not to follow the logic of the peace judges themselves. Many of the countries under this system do not even require law degrees for peace judges. And we support this hypothesis as it should be considered. Finally, with regard to criminal legislation, one last point to say that the possibility of extending the provisional suspension figure, for cases to which this figure does not apply today, must be of greatest caution, because the provisional suspension of proceedings, in some of the crimes already authorized to this figure, has proved to be quite perverse. For example, what happens in the crime of domestic violence, with the possibility of provisional suspension of the process and the weakness that this introduces in the relationship between the parties. Especially in the area of domestic violence, as you will understand, all this is very sensitive. In short, the merit of CDS proposals, as I said right at the beginning, is a variable merit. There are proposals that we follow, and we do so without any rejection, and there are proposals that deserve us the greatest reservation. Therefore, at the time of our specialty we will be here, with the proposals we have already put forward and with others which, of course, we will come forward, because we want to follow the proposals that deserve our agreement, strengthening them, and filling up what seems to us to be the wrong proposals or the shortcomings of the CDS proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u45	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any registration to request clarification from Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u46	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u47	Mr President, this does not depend on the Bureau, but the Bureau notes its disappointment. I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now leaving the formal questions and moving to the aspects or merits of the proposals put forward, as I said in my request for clarification I made recently, there are matters that deserve our consideration, and even agreement, and others not so much. I would begin precisely so that it seems to us to be fair and reasonable, which is the creation of advisory offices for judges and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the courts. It seems to us, indeed, that this is reasonable and that it should be consecrated. We know of the practical difficulties that the creation of these support offices can lead to, but indeed, we want to believe that this makes sense, and it is therefore something that deserves consideration of this House, obviously with a view to creating conditions for this possibility to be actually realized in practice. thus, the draft law presented by the CDS on the organization of the judicial system seems to make sense to us in this part, although it no longer makes sense the requirement of the existence of an annual report, prepared by the government, on the state of justice, because, it seems to us, the evaluation of the state of justice lacks the participation of independent and autonomous entities, which not the government itself, so that there can be a rigorous assessment of the state of the justice system. Moreover, the reports made by the Attorney-General's Office are, from this point of view, very valuable and, therefore, we do not think that this matter should be governed. on the contrary, the assessment of the state of justice should be able to count on the participation of entities which have a very significant share in the operation of the system, including the Attorney-General of the Republic and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. In any case, as far as the magistrates' support offices are concerned, it seems to us that this makes sense. There are a number of initiatives which the CDS presents and which, it seems to us, should have a very careful assessment and with the collaboration of the superior councils and the entities involved in the justice system, because they are complex matters regarding their legal technicality and also the relevant consequences of the proposed amendments. We are talking, in particular, about amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, the General Tax Law or the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. It seems to us that this is a matter which lacks in-depth appreciation, so that this House can feel safe and capable of having good solutions for it, and some of them must be carefully weighed. Therefore, with regard to some of the proposals presented here by the CDS, we give the benefit of doubt and think that they should be worthy of careful analysis. However, there are matters on which we want to make clear our disagreement from now on, such as arbitration, in particular at both administrative and tax offices. The CFP has expressed its disagreement in this House with regard to the dejudicialization of dispute resolution, particularly when they involve the State and when they involve large amounts. And we fully realize that the mechanism of tax arbitration is only for large debtors.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u50	A citizen who ceases to pay his single traffic tax, whether it is for a few hours, or who, for no certainty, does not make a tax statement in time and time is, in fact, soon penalized with fines, which may even be, in view of the very violent economic situation of each of them. There's no appeal or trouble here, no arbitration is worth it! However, a debtor who owes millions of euros to tax and who uses tax arbitration will probably be free to have to pay a number of million. For us, however, this is absolutely unacceptable in a rule of law, and we therefore absolutely challenge the existence of arbitration mechanisms for the resolution of conflicts in tax matters. On the other hand, we also believe that the State should not resort to arbitration in administrative contracts, because we know what this has represented. In other words, this has invariably represented that, when disputes are involved between the State and individuals with great economic power—and we simply think about what is going on with regard to public-private partnerships—the State is penalized and the holders of economic power always win, at the expense of the taxpayers, at the expense of the citizens. This, for us, is unacceptable. The State, in order to enforce its rights, should resort to the rule of law mechanisms, should resort to the courts of the State and not accept mechanisms which, as the experience has shown, only harm the community, only harm the interests of the Portuguese State and citizens in general. Therefore, in the matter of arbitration we express our disagreement, with regard to what is indeed proposed. Then there are a number of proposals which seem relatively irrelevant to us, such as recommending that the Government do this, that or the other, in matters which could, including, and should, be the House's initiative, in particular with regard to the subject of sanctions. However, in my remaining time, I would like to refer to the question of the peace judges. We appreciate the existence of initiatives on peace judges, it is something that is very expensive to us—in fact, the CFP presented, in this House, the first bill that gave rise to the existence of peace judges—and we think it is worth discussing the extension of the network of peace judges. It is really worth having this debate. There are aspects of the CDS proposal that we do not agree, however, in particular with regard to the mandatory jurisdiction of the peace judges and the mandatory presence of a lawyer. We believe that one of the advantages of the peace judges is precisely the fact that a citizen, who has no resources to afford a court hearing, in particular to pay fees, can resort to a more accessible way to see his problem solved, if the financial extent of what is involved allows it. We therefore believe that we should not create mechanisms that make the recourse to peace judges less accessible for economic reasons. By the way, I would like to announce that today the CFP will present a bill for the extension of competence and the network of peace judges because we consider it to be a discussion that is indeed worth being held in this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u51	Did Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa sign up to ask Mr António Filipe a question?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u52	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u53	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u54	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u55	Mr President, the honourable Member has asked Mrs Vania Dias da Silva a question, but if the question has passed, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa will make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u56	The Bureau had the record that it was a request for clarification from Mr António Filipe, who no longer has time to answer. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor, then, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy lives in disagreement, but it also lives in consensus. Justice is one of the areas in which, because of its importance, consensus is imposed between the various judicial operators, but also between the political parties. It was also in this sense, and it has already been mentioned here by the PSD, the appeal of the President of the Republic to a true pact for justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are always available to contribute to the improvement of justice, specifically administrative and fiscal justice, to constructive and dialogue. In addition, in 2015 the PSD made an important contribution, this very significant contribution, to a new era in valuing administrative justice in Portugal, with the revision, for example, of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals. These reforms were fundamental for the improvement of the legal and fiscal system, were essential for greater confidence in justice and for more open, transparent and more efficient administration. The CDS-PP was also part of the government that made this important contribution. That is why one of our first curiosities, and the question that would be needed, is what the reasons or motivations that led the CDS-PP now to propose legislative amendments at this headquarters, given that there is no knowledge of the existence of an evaluation or monitoring of the 2015 reform, which, as we know, was chaired by Prof. Dr. Fausto Quadros. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter is very important and therefore it should not be seen as a mere race in which it is interested to be the first to let go — in fact, in a background race, they do not always win those who leave first. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that there is a new, serious approach to these issues of administrative justice. As we know, there is a consensus on the diagnosis of administrative and fiscal justice in Portugal. The resolution of the current problems does not seem to depend solely on a review of legislation or a genuine reform of justice, but on the need to provide the administrative and fiscal courts with more means, more judges, more prosecutors, in order to effectively recover the administrative expectations of the older cases. Therefore, it was important to know whether or not the CDS agrees with this diagnosis and how these measures which are now proposed in the field of administrative and fiscal justice can effectively solve these demanding problems through the shortage of means and resources of administrative and fiscal courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is the real basis for these legislative amendments proposed by the CDS? Why does the CDS propose, for example, the replacement of the model of small, medium and large tax courts by the model of common tax, tax enforcement and counter-ordinary resources? What is the basis for these measures? Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also leave a note regarding Bill No. 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). The CDS proposes here the creation of a new chapter on the management of administrative and fiscal courts and it is not understood, whether by step or by any means it already corresponds to an attempt to realize a desire expressed in the agreements for the justice system, which speak in procedural objectives of comarca. We all know that the districts exist only in the common jurisdiction, but we also know that one of the proposals contained in the agreements for the justice system is the unification of the common jurisdiction with the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, creating a single order of courts. It was also important to understand the position of the CDS-PP on this matter and to agree with the merger between these two jurisdictions, administrative and fiscal. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to raise some questions about the CDS proposals on administrative and fiscal arbitration. As we know, arbitration is very complex and delicate, especially in public law, because it can allow the administration and the government to abandon the administrative and fiscal courts. That is why these proposals now face a great dilemma in our view: how can we, on the one hand, seek to improve the conditions of administrative and tax courts and provide them with the best means and, at the same time, encourage administrative or tax arbitration? The CDS seems to favor the way of arbitration. Will the CDS not give up all the necessary means so that the administrative and tax courts can effectively function in a full, speedy and effective manner? Will the CDS-PP priority not be reversed? In our view, it seems to us that the priority must always be to provide the administrative and tax courts with the best conditions so that they can develop their activities. Eventually, as an alternative, there may be situations that may be referred to arbitration, but the priority must always be to provide the best conditions for administrative and tax courts. I also leave a final note on the proposal from the CDS of retired judges to serve as arbitrators in tax matters. Given the lack of judges in the tax courts, would it not be more relevant than those judges, if they wanted to continue working, could they do it alone and exclusively in the place where they are really needed, i.e. in the administrative and fiscal courts and not in arbitration? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the debate of ideas is crucial in particular in the area of administrative and fiscal justice. All contributions to better justice are important and valid, but let us point out that more important than whether or not the CDS-PP measures are sexy to the PSD is whether they are truly effective and capable of combating the real problems of administrative and fiscal justice in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u58	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : "When I was born, the sentences that will save humanity were all written, only one thing was missing: saving humanity". Almada Negroes, despite the multifaceted nature of his genius, he was certainly not a jurist. Hardly, however, other words than theirs could better characterize a perplexity generally installed in the face of the succession of covenants, agreements, reports, diagnoses or other reflections about justice are being examined, when sided with their results, persisting the image of a crisis of justice that, paying attention to its structuring nature of the rule of law, cannot fail to reflect on the quality of our democracy. It is true that the circumstances of our justice system in these four decades cannot and should not be squambled, since, as many authors demarcated, it has developed between 1974 and 1976 and corresponded to the design of the lines of rupture—and also continuity—with the system of justice inherited from the New State. This, another one, marked between 1976 and 1987, following the approval of the Constitution, was characterized by the realization of constitutional principles and, in some ways, it can be said that it corresponded to the construction of the legal building of our justice system. since then, until the beginning of the 2000s, there have been permanent incremental adjustments that have led to the consolidation of that building, in fact, of the 1997 constitutional review. Today, however, we have a generation of Portuguese—to which, in the next legislative elections, for the first time, the possibility of exercising their right to vote — which formed their civic consciousness in full in a period which can be designated, and is often, of a crisis of justice. A generalized climate of disappointment, founded or not, with the system, in which public perception is that justice responds poorly, or poorly, to requests, meanwhile accompanied by the emergence of a public opinion fed by media cases The truth is that, in these almost two decades, the chorus of qualified voices protesting the need for the construction of a commitment, has often surpassed a variety of immediacy and resistances that have invariably undermined the understandings that have been successfully achieved or propagated. Now, just a month and a half ago, Mr President of the Supreme Court, because of the urgency of the chairman of the judiciary's management body, had the opportunity to speak, at the opening ceremony of the judicial year, on the document recently constructed by the various judicial officers, drawn up in response to the call from the President of the Republic, a year earlier. Stressing the need for a political response to the policy issues raised by this document, however, he had the wisdom of, at the same time that he called upon the need for this intervention, to have warned of the necessity of, on that same document, having made a prior look at its whole, allowing, and I quote, to look at "beyond the vague ideas or pragmatic suggestions that come from the circumstances and circumstances". In other words, he warned the prestigious jurist that it would be a mistake to seek to withdraw an atomic reading from the justice agreement any set of proposals to turn them into bills, entering the political agents into a sort of contest to see which of them makes their most proposals or which one makes them faster. He preferred the CDS to ignore such warnings, opting for an attempt to mark the agenda in an area where recent changes of protagonists in the main opposition party could, in his view, open room for manoeuvre. It is true that we will not get involved in this parliamentary right-wing championship. for our part, we reaffirm our agreement with the need, before any legislative solutions, to undertake a careful and weighted analysis, which allows all proposals to give an intra-systemic coherence. That is why the Socialist Party has already called for the parliamentary hearing of all the parties that subscribe to the agreements for the justice system and, as a result, of the judiciary's management bodies and the holder of the government justice folder to be able at the end of these hearings to converge into a coherent set of proposals that allow, not the satisfaction of any partisan egos, but the improvement of our justice system. That, yes, is a purpose that we profess and that the Portuguese people will certainly corroborate. To this end, it is important not to give in to any populist impulses nor to assume as a starting point a perception polluted by processes which do not in themselves represent the system and which, strictly speaking, contribute only to feeding easy speeches but which in no way help to construct the answers that are imposed. There are reforms that will surely be imposed, but it is no less true that for the success of its implementation it must depart, not from misconceptions, that "never change, even when confronted with evidence" — to mention again the Councillor Henriques Gaspar — but rather from the portrait resulting from the reports of all the regions and that, in the words of the first head of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, they reveal, and I quote, "good results in all performance indicators: at the resolution rate, at the recovery rate, at the decongestion rates and in the average scheduling and decision time". It is fair to say that such results should, in the first place, be the generality of judges and judicial officials and other justice officers, who, often in over-exertion, have been doing their best to do so. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From some of the proposals presented today, it seems possible to withdraw the idea that the continuation of a path to suppressing the possibility of resources will lead to faster justice and thus more effective justice. However, experience should lead us to put the value of such an understanding to rest. In particular, it is indisputable today that the subsequent creation of mechanisms for filtering the appeal to our higher courts has, perhaps too many times, transferred to the courts of second instance the ultimate function. We shall, in our conscience, have to ask ourselves about the correctness of the pursuit of this path. We will also have to be able to respond, as a legislator, to the challenge of those — as is the case with the President of the Supreme Court — who have repeatedly been alerting in public interventions to the need to rethink the system of resources, which has been profoundly modified since the second half of the 2000s. It would not even need to mention national and international perplexity here — and now — about the unfortunate foundation of an arrest that has recently occupied the media space, but rather to recall the fact that it has accompanied its public knowledge of being the same insusceptible to appeal, thus giving reason to those who, absolutely, had already suggested that the legislator would have gone far too far in limiting the right to appeal. The fact, expressed by the President of the Court himself, that our Supreme Court is today, thanks to successive legislative amendments, removed from the possibility of intervening and deciding on matters where respect for fundamental rights may be involved, is something that can only urge us to revisit that regime. in the same way, we cannot ignore that proposals for the transformation of the competence of the peace judges, giving them exclusive competence where they have an alternative today, in addition to transmuting their nature of alternative means of settlement of disputes and thus making them integrate into the area of competence and specialization of the courts, provided for in Article 211. that of the Constitution—where those manifestly, if they do not join today— could also lead, if any, to the placing in crisis of constitutional legitimacy of their management body, the Council of the Peace Judges, separate from the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, to whom constitutionally it is responsible for the management of the single body of judicial judges. Also on proposals which would allegedly seek to print speed through the withdrawal of disputes to the state courts, making them transfer ope lei to arbitral courts, i.e. by transferring proceedings from the public court to the private jurisdiction, it will be necessary not to forget what the Constitutional Court has already ruled on this matter, in particular when it pointed out that "even if the arbitral courts constitute a category of courts and exercise the jurisdictional function, it cannot be lost in view of the fact that this is a form of private jurisdiction (...). However, the fundamental right of access to courts tends to be a guarantee of access to state courts as a result of the necessary connection between that right and the reserve of jurisdiction, which can only characterize a reserve of arbitral jurisdiction when access to the arbitral tribunal is free and voluntary'. I impose this jurisdiction on any of the parties, abandoning their voluntary character, it would therefore be to put the norm that would be foreseen under the risk of declaration of unconstitutionality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These comments are just some of the ones that recommend us to think more about several of the proposals presented today. The hearing — already awaited in this House — of the judicial officers will certainly serve the success of this weighting. for our part, we will be available to, seeking to obtain the necessary consensus from other political actors, to contribute to the enhancement of the prestige of justice and thus the strengthening of the rule of democratic law. Because today, as always, the main challenge remains that of democratizing the justice system, understood in its triple aspect of the provision of public service of justice, protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees and constituent policies of the judiciary, establishing effective mechanisms for accountability and scrutiny will be here, as in all other public policies, essential. I am sure that, in the diversity of our views, we will all know that we are in line with what the country expects of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u60	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I particularly welcome the CDS and Mrs Vania Dias da Silva for the initiatives they have brought us, but on them, or on a part of them, we will already go there, because we follow much of what has already been mentioned, I would say that the merit of the initiatives is not uniform. Before that, I wanted to start by saying what seems obvious to me and that all Portuguese feel: the public image of the justice system is worn out and everyone recognizes the central role in democracy, social peace, growth and competitiveness of the country of this justice system. Perhaps that is why the leaders of the two parties with the highest parliamentary representation, the PSD and PS, tried, a few years ago, to build a pact of justice. That's what his name was. at the time, despite well-intentioned, this pact failed to have the desired result. What was intended at the time was to assign stability and longevity to the system and place it above party disputes and up to the duration of a legislature. That, as was said, did not come back and the parties, at the time, conjuncturally, were not able to assume this responsibility. So another way has to be traced and I think it's time, or maybe it's time. It is not a question of being « docinho », as someone said yesterday, or of being « sour », as I can say today with the government. It is about dealing with the issues of justice and the country with the elevation and dignity they have. It has already been said here that the President of the Republic has already given the motto for this discussion and it is because of the challenge he has made, by asking various entities, that the so-called "agreement for the justice system" has been established. It was good for us to stick to this embryo and we all succeed — I repeat, all parliamentary groups, not just one, sporadically or with any fire, with greater or lesser legislative initiatives — to establish a national plan for justice. This first premise is fulfilled. If the agents of the sector — and I speak of the lawyers, judges and judicial officials — have reached agreement on certain matters, is there any perceptible reason why who is outside the sector, although having legislative power, does not also reach an agreement? No one understands that outside, outside this house. And this regardless of form or content issues. A few days ago, someone said — I think Mr António Filipe — about the CDS initiatives that, in content, things were even going well but that the way wasn't exactly the happiest way. I can agree with that, but can a question in a manner compromise something that is substantial for the competitiveness and strength of a country's justice system? I do not believe that we continue this party dispute and are bound, imprisoned to it forever. I don't believe that, and I think we have an obligation to do better. I know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would all be more at ease if the government had a capacity to reform which did not, on the contrary, exhibit an antithesis than is intended. And believe that the logic is not to be here talking about the past, it is not to point the finger or to blame anyone. The pass-back doesn't solve anything, until anyone who talks about the past doesn't know what to do with the future. You don't know! But that's not the logic, I just want to talk about the present. And not present, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no memory of having seen such a great climate of cliché in the justice sector. There is no such memory and that is evidence. in this regard, the government is more or less dead in a distressing lethargy. If this were a football game, I think the government, which already has two years of mandate, would not have passed in the first part, not even in the middle. We're like this, we're not even in the middle of the game. So perhaps the leader of the CFP said days ago, I think this week: "When one does not know what is done or what is to be done, it is a working group or a committee." What has the government done? It created a working group for the Statute of Judicial Judges, another working group for the Statute of the Public Ministry, another working group for the evaluation of the CPAS Regulation (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants ), another working group for judicial support and procedural costs, another working group for the reform of tax administration, etc. That is to say, it is so full of working groups that the sector's agents are unhappy! They are judges, lawyers, prison guards, judicial officers, registrar and notarial officers, all of them challenge the action, when it exists, or, in particular, challenge the inaction, which almost always exists, of this government. This is so with the Statute of the Judicial Judges, which has long been promised but which has not yet seen the light of the day. Conclusion: successive strike threats. With the Public Prosecutor's Office it is exactly the same thing, and as for lawyers, the CPAS regulation continues to marinate, endlessly. Conclusion: 4000 lawyers in the Land of Paço. [[PS protests.]] This is very serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! As for prison guards, the relationship with prison guards is as never before: iron and fire! Overtime; disciplinary proceedings 'in barda'; inmates with less than hours of visits. Conclusion: strike already completed. As for the Statute of Judicial Officials, there was a promise that it would enter into force by January 2018. We're in March and he hasn't come in yet. Conclusion: another threat of strike is expected. As regards legal support and procedural costs, the working group has existed since November 2016. However, Mr Bastonário of the Advocates' Order has come to talk about the price of legal costs. The government has failed, has paralyzed and has not literally been able to do anything more about this matter, which is so relevant that it is in the judgments of justice. As for administrative and fiscal justice, the working group was formed in October 2016, with proposals presented in 2017 and none of us know them. As regards inventories and shares, the Ministry of Justice promised an assessment, which would be completed in April or May 2017. Conclusion : it's almost a year and nothing! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I so busy with this?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u62	Now there's a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u63	Because the modernization and evolution of the sector does not seem to be sufficient with the individual efforts of this government. Neither this government nor any party individually! Therefore, by praising the CDS initiative here, we have a clear feeling that we have to look at this matter in a much more comprehensive way, making such regime pacts. And we know the subjects for which we call all the parties, all the parliamentary groups. Mrs. Members, believe that the CDS decided to launch these initiatives at a time when the PSD was, if we wanted, in reconstruction, in a transitional period. He did well, he took advantage of the moment, he wanted to explore the moment. But I think the PSD wants, with everyone—with everyone! -, to explore time. We want to mark the time, the time with the notion that we have of it, as something that is perennial, that is stable, that lasts, that mark, that remains. And in this case I think it is important to realize what everyone thinks about the model of evaluation, training and selection of judges, about the models of constitution and election of the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Ministry, about the review of the judicial map, about the proximity justice and the municipal courts, about a new review of the executive action, about the reform of the criminal process and the eventual termination of the education phase, about the reform of the civil process and the eventual extinction of the previous hearing, about the simplification of the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure. And more than that, about an approach that no one has yet done, but that I think it is time to do, about the violation of the secret of justice, in order to know whether it should be decriminalized, as in the United Kingdom, or if, instead, we should have an even heavier criminal framework, so that we are allowed to listen to the investigation of crimes of violation of the secret of justice, which is not happening today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying this: the CDS initiatives are commendable. This, regardless of whether we criticize or not criticize what the CDS has already criticized. In fact, the Parliamentary Leader of the CDS said a few days ago at a Conference of Leaders that we should not discuss structural matters without, at the same time, being qualified with technical notes from the services, reports and institutional opinions. Well, that's what we're really doing here and we don't have any of that here. But I have also seen the Socialist Party, and not only do exactly the same. More than that, this debate is important—and I continue to stress it—because it puts the system of justice as a national priority among those who are the concerns, I think, of all the parties represented in this House. But there's something we don't agree with, something we don't follow. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, when she spoke about the reform of the civil procedure, said that one of the measures that the CDS would propose was to introduce as a rule the written statement and that it would only be a regime-exception the present testimony in the court, when the judge admitted it—it is not when the parties, it is when the judge admitted it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u64	The parts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u65	But that's not what there is, Mrs. Member. What's there is when the judge admitted it. No matter what. Madam Member, for those who have been in court for many years to make judgments, this proposal — I understand its merit, because it plays well with the question of procedural speed—repeats the principle of orality and the immediateness of evidence. If it was just a matter of exchanging words, said by people's mouth, by letters, which are written in a statement, the thing was easy. Just -- you know what? — the judges look at a person and understand whether what it says corresponds to the truth or not with the body movements, with the gestures, with the time of delay of the answers, finally with a number of factors that clearly exceed what is inert and which result passively from a written paper. So what we think is that we should all think about these matters very well. in the framework of the Justice Agreement, which we are already discussing in 1. the Commission or anywhere else, the PSD calls on all parliamentary groups to present, study and debate a true national plan for justice in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u66	Mr Fernando Anastácio wrote to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u67	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I had a few questions to ask you, but Mr Peixoto has only 10 seconds to answer. I know that it is little time, but in any case, I would never take advantage of a situation at this time of "reconstruction" of the PSD, to place to you the difficulties that your CDS partners have put to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u68	There is no difficulty!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u69	from the PS side, will not have this criticism, that is a problem between the right—it is indeed a race by whom leads the right. So this is with you and we're not going to get into it. on our part, rest assured that we will not cause you any trouble.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u70	You've got problems coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u71	In fact, I understand in some way the difficulty of its intervention and the multiple paths that it has sought along and I recognize that it becomes difficult to address this issue. Not because we do not know, sometimes — and this is the answer to the question you have raised — what must be done in the future, but because of the difficulty in talking about what we have done in the past. So sometimes some political parties have difficulty talking about what they did in the past, because what shows us the reality, that reality of that recent past, is not very good in the eyes of the Portuguese people, particularly in justice and in an area that was even protected by the PSD in the previous government. You mentioned here, Mr President, that there has never been such a conflict. Honestly, Mr, memory should not be something that disappears so quickly. Therefore, I remind you of the recent times of your Government, your former Minister of Justice, who has completed his term in full court of institutional relations with judicial judges, magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, notaries, lawyers. That is, a conflict like never happened in the history of the Portuguese judicial system. That is why, Mr President, on the question of conflict, we are talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u73	As regards the question of the statutes, as you know, its review is under way and will shortly be in force. We will thus have the opportunity to do what you have not been able to do during your legislature. But your speech has a great problem, which is the fact that he is displaced from reality. And when it is said that, in justice, nothing happens, nothing has changed and that you don't want to talk about the past, it is sometimes because we don't want to talk about some numbers. Now, I chose three or four numbers, which I think are important, to show you clearly the difference between the gift of the one who does and the past of the one who did not. For example, let us talk about the pending processes, particularly in executive action, which is a central issue for the economy and justice. The suspension of executive actions recorded a breakdown of 230 000 cases between the third quarter of 2015 and the same quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u74	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u75	This is the difference between who knows what he's doing and who didn't know what he had to do. Insolvency suspension during the same period had a break of 33 %. Those are objective numbers. in the overall framework, in these areas the year 2017 is expected to end with about less than 300 000 dependencies compared to 2015. Mr. Deputies, this is the reality! But if you also want to talk about prison issues, we can also do it. And we can talk in particular about the number of prisoners, which has reduced by a number of measures adopted by this government. Thus, for the end of 2015, we currently have fewer than 767 prisoners and the prison population has reduced its occupation from 111, 9 % to 103 %. These are objective numbers. The number of judges has already been mentioned in this House. I will repeat, because this is a number that must be repeated: between 2012 and 2015, in the PSD/CDS government, 169 new judges have entered; between 2016 and 2018, in the current government, 380 new judges have entered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u76	And how many left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u77	Mr President, from the point of view of judicial officials, 400 new judicial officers have entered. And more than that, Mr President, we have reopened the courts that you have closed. That's the difference. Mr President, I would just like to end with a question and if you cannot answer it in the 10 seconds you have, you can do it later when we have the debate on these issues. Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to come to this debate in a serious way, which is planned and which we voted unanimously on 1. the Commission, for the already marked hearing of those who have signed the pact for justice, i.e. of the Superior Councils, and, following this debate, move forward with its proposals, discuss and build a solution, or want to continue to follow that path of competition by the leadership of the right, for a policy that we all have already realized is that which is completely out of step with the Portuguese people? I leave this question to you and this challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u78	Mr Peixoto has the floor to answer in very short time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u79	Mr President, very telegraphically, I just wanted to remind Mr Fernando Anastácio that all those numbers he spoke of as positive numbers, although relatively truncated, come from reforms, contracts and opening of contests, made during the PSD / CDS-PP government. That's the detail you forgot. Finally, I wanted to say to you that we are not here in any competition with the CDS-PP, which is, in fact, a party that has always walked by our side for many and many years. We are only competing for a mission far superior to that, which is to put the justice system at the heart of the political debate. And what we really care about is the competition for the country, for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u80	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the CDS for bringing the matter of justice to debate, a structural value for a state of democratic law like ours. However, we must not fail to refresh the memory of what has been the right priorities of this government and what has been done in the area of justice. in fact, after we have witnessed for four and a half years a tsunami of legislative changes, often in bulk and not studied, in an unprecedented reduction of human capital and investment in this sector, we are now living a time of legislative caution, but also of the effectiveness of reforms, such as the reform of short sentences, and also of strengthening judicial agents, human resources and budgetary reinforcement. I must recall that 400 judicial officers have already entered the system and have also opened more than 60 % vacancies, of which we have already spoken, with regard to the Judicial Studies Centre. A final note to mention the importance, which has been devalued, with regard to the modernisation of justice, of the Action Plan Justice + Next. Dr. Vania Dias da Silva, Dear Member, are 52, yes, the measures already completed and there is a great work done with the secretaries and their reorganization, with the single balconies, the simplification of language in communications, electronic notification to representatives, electronic certifications, more than 33 000 online criminal registration certificates in 2017, an increasing dematerialization of the processes and other measures in implementation, which allow us to say that we are watching, yes, a quiet revolution, which enhances speed, promotes approximation and promotes transparency and innovation. I am sure that the CDS and PSD recognise this whole course, this whole revolution and all these results, which cannot be stopped and, above all, cannot be interrupted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u82	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u83	Yes, Mr. President. The bad thing was that this modernization agenda was blocked for four and a half years and these agendas are supraparted and have to be beyond the Legislation. Our fight will continue to be the fight for law and, above all, for justice at the service of citizenship and development, listening to all the agents of the agreements for justice, as requested in 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u84	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u85	That will be our way, to be able to hear with democratic humility to build justice for all and with all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u86	To conclude the debate, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when we close the debate on our proposals for justice, we must say, firstly, that the CDS came here, as we have seen, with an objective and a method. The aim is the commitment – not now, not one month, not six months ago, but two years ago – to have proposals, ideas and solutions to improve justice in Portugal. I repeat, improve justice in Portugal and do not revolutionize or reform everything. For this purpose, we choose a method and allow me now to tell you that our method has been made over time. We heard the Academy, we heard teachers, we heard law professionals, we heard forum professionals, we joined our teams, we worked and that is why we arrived here with 12 different proposals for various areas of justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We choose to put forward broad proposals. We could have chosen one or two concrete questions, but we didn't go there. We choose to submit proposals under the Civil Code, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Administrative Law, the Tax Courts, the Criminal Courts, the Criminal Code, the Courts of Peace and even the situation in prisons. We choose amplitude in our proposals with a assumption that, I think, this House realized: not to make great proclamations or to choose great themes from the media agenda, but, yes, to change justice by often choosing small solutions, small resolutions, small changes and, when changing justice, changing people's lives. We have done so cautiously, even because of what we think it is necessary to reflect, that it is necessary to study and go further, for example, to propose that, with the cooperation of the Government, a committee should be set up to make some of these important reforms. We were cautious and even humble in our assumption. As a critic, what did we hear? Well, the main criticism we heard was that we were the first and it is extraordinary that this is the main criticism. It is disturbing that the CDS has been the first, it is disturbing that the CDS has put forward proposals, but, finally, that we are to blame for this, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? We did our homework and arrived here with our proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u88	They didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u89	We had a commitment, which was to take action, to take the initiative and to put forward proposals. We do not intend to seek permission from anyone now or ever, much less from any other bench here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is extraordinary that this is the great criticism that we have made here. Anyway, and he came from all over... Mr. Carlos Peixoto, I ask you to understand that we thought the reconstruction of the PSD had already ended, but that is just a little detail.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u90	It was last week!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u91	We choose our agenda, choose our timing, make our proposals and, if anyone wants to assume that there is a competition, then we will say: "We do not want to win the competition from the center right or right, we want to win the competition. We want to be the first and we want to have the best, the most thought and structured proposals! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is our goal and we believe that, from this point of view, in a matter that must be of dialogue and convergence — we agree on that! — it is good that all the other proposals come to debate, it is good that they appear, but we do not yet know what they are. What no one has been able to say in this debate—we have not heard anyone say it, and this is a sign that, to some extent, we are winning the competition—is that our proposals are not thought, are not studied, have no merit, are not solid or are not consistent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u92	By the way, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u93	I did!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u94	I said and I didn't get an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u95	Mr Andrade said he did not agree with the proposals, he said he did not have time to read them, but perhaps that was why. Read them and you'll see that they're worth it, read them, and you'll see what makes all the sense. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We do not want him to always agree, but when he tells us that we have a great amplitude, that we have many things, that we are going to many subjects, that we have sectoral themes in several areas, I remember an interview I read last weekend of an old staff member of the Advocates' Order— whose price opinion, moreover—in which they ask him what is necessary for justice and he says: "More than a major reform, concrete actions are needed in several sectors of justice", exactly what we have come to do here. And when asked what priority is for justice, he answers: "Simplification", exactly what we came here to propose. So, some of these criticisms—which have also existed, I grant you this justice— are not, in our view, correct, but we are here to discuss. Quotes were made and I quote you a well-known phrase of Brazilian thinker and lawyer Rui Barbosa : « Late justice is not justice but rather qualified injustice ». In other words, the first concern is speed. We have been discussing the same thing for a long time, we have been discussing why justice takes so long and, as such, is not fair but unfair. So speed is also our first concern. in cafes, everywhere, public opinion says that justice has to be speedy, everyone talks about speedy, but it must be realized that speed is not walking too fast or too slow. Celebrity is exactly the time of justice, it is the right time, the right time, the reasonable time and for this we propose solutions: a bag of judges to respond to the expectations— told us Mrs.Vânia Dias da Silva that there were a million pending processes at the end of 2016, which is serious and worrying;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u96	And how many were in 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u97	... stimulating the judges of peace—it has been disagreed here, but we will discuss and see if there is another way because, obviously, by stimulating more arbitration, by stimulating more alternative means, we will be releasing from the courts what can be released so that justice decides better and in more useful time. However, it is not only about speed, because, more than being speedy, it is important that the decision be fair, that it be true and here we enter the path of effectiveness. What do we propose? Specialist advisers, technicians, i.e. they are not advisers to do the work of the judge, but rather to do the technical work and so that the judge can devote himself to what is most important to a judge, who is the decision-making. This would improve the effectiveness of the courts, as is clear, and we would also have more demanding requirements, especially for the arbitrators, ensuring that justice is more right and fairer, as well as — and that comes from the justice pact — more technological means. On the other hand, we are also concerned about the guarantees of citizens when we defend, for example, that excessive burdens have to be unblocked in 10 days or that, in criminal matters, there must be a balance between what is counter-ordinary — that was made by brawls and that today is often by thousands and millions — and what is criminal law, that yes, well, guarantees. There must be this balance, as it is necessary for the defendant to be heard in a reasonable time or, then, for the defendant to be lifted. In criminal justice, we are cautious. Everyone says, everyone talks, everyone recognizes that criminal justice needs change and that it needs reform. What do we propose? Our solutions, casuistics, made on concrete cases or media news? Oh, my God! Don't! We propose exactly the opposite: a committee that involves the best of the Academy, which involves the best of the professional orders, which involves the magistrates, that involves the superior councils, that studies and reflects on criminal matters, but not unless we stop pointing ways, saying, for example, that the secret of justice, the question on which everyone speaks, can be reviewed, but it must be said that, in our opinion, it must first be protected as such and, once violated, equality between the parties must be guaranteed;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u99	... that the status of collaboration in the proceedings should lead to a review of the suspension regime of the proceedings; or, moreover, that, in economic and financial crime, there are criminal types that deserve attention and review, including the crime of infidelity, so often used but whose effectiveness is not always indisputable. We are also talking about what I would call the “scrutinium of justice”. What we are proposing — and I often discuss in this Chamber with Mr Neto Brandão and other Members the Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI ) — is not a report by the Government but that the various sectoral reports of justice, including that of prisons, which have 140 % lotion and where the current situation is unacceptable — are submitted in a large report for this House to conduct, annually, scrutiny on expectations, scrutiny on functioning, scrutiny on the number of judges, scrutiny on the situation of prisons. This is our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u100	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. In this debate, we leave our proposals in the Bureau to be evaluated. We hope for yours and limit ourselves to asking for justice at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u102	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u103	We call for justice for our proposals, for them to be assessed by merit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u104	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u105	Let's take the first step. Let's take a step forward. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u106	Mr President, I also ask for justice for times. Having come to the end of our agenda today, there are small announcements to make, as Mr Duarte Pacheco says, although sometimes they are not as small as he would think. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein.o 790 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a )................................................................................ ( a )................................................................................ the Commission and Parliamentary assessment No 54 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 of 26 February, which defines the legal regime of post-graduate medical training, designated as medical boarding, and establishes the general principles to which the proceedings ( BE ) must comply. The draft resolutions 1364 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Requalification of the Castro Daire Secondary School ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1365 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the action of the Government to ensure the continuation of the work in the former Triumph and in the Ricon ( BE ) group, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1366 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer to the estate of the Autonomous Region of Madeira of the buildings annexed to the lighthouse of São Jorge ( PSD ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 1367 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). — Recommends that the Government promote a national campaign for the sterilization of pet animals ( NAP ) which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-01.u108	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore in a position to announce the agenda for our plenary meeting tomorrow beginning at 10 a.m. of point one is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Act No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). Paragraph 2 of resolution No 62 / XIII ( 3 ) is then scheduled without time. ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on Counterfeiting of Similar Medicinal Products and Infringements involving Threats to Public Health, opened the signature in Moscow on 28 October 2011, and in point three, draft resolution No 1351 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February approving the structure and competence of the services of the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ). Finally, we will have a standing vote at the end of the debate and, if we run everything normally, I think it will be before noon, and it is good that the benches will be informed in advance about this great possibility. Thank you very much and good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
