ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Members, I begin by recalling the holding of elections, during the plenary meeting, which take place in Conference Room D. Maria, of members for the Higher Council of Internal Security and for the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products. We move on to the next item on the agenda, with the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos. 673 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Portuguese sound, music and radio ( PSD ), 1302 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation and installation of a national sound archive ( BE ), 1306 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures leading to the creation of the national sound archive ( PS ), 1309 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and promote sound heritage through the creation of a national sound archive ( The Greens ), 1311 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection of sound documents that are part of Portuguese cultural heritage by creating a national sound archive ( CDS-PP ), and generally draft law No 768 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the national sound archive ( PCP ). To present the PSD draft resolution, she has the floor, Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 673 / XIII ( 2. a ), presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group in February 2017 and today under discussion, aims to focus on the discussion of safeguarding and preserving Portuguese audio, music and radio heritage. We all have the right to cultural exploitation and creation and it is up to the State to promote its safeguarding and valorization. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Is this a government that is called a friend of culture, where is the investment to safeguard Portuguese heritage? Mr President, I would like to highlight the effort made by some public and private institutions in safeguarding, storing and disseminating some very important sound collections. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back 12 years to remember that we were in 2006 when the national sound archive was announced. At that time the Socialist Party ruled, but the archive never advanced. I would also like to recall that a measure presented in the Great Plan Options for 2016 by the Socialist Party was the launching of the bases and the development of the project of creating the national sound archive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group understands today, as in the past, that this is a matter of greatest importance. in this sense, he presented in 2013, together with the CDS-PP, a draft resolution that recommended to the government the protection of sound documents that were part of the Portuguese heritage. With a view to precisely the creation of the national sound archive, the XIX Constitutional Government issued an order that determined the establishment of a preparation team, in order to create the archive and thus follow up a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. The PSD Parliamentary Group, with the presentation of this draft resolution, intends to give a clear signal on the part of Parliament, in order to finally outline a strategy that will minimize the risks of loss or deterioration of sound, musical and radio-related heritage, often unique. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We hope to see approved by this House our draft resolution, since the draft resolutions of the Left Block, the PS, the Greens and the CDS, as well as the bill of the PCP, presented only in the last week and scheduled, by drag, with our project, all go in the same direction and come to strengthen our initiative. The draft resolution of the PSD recommends that the Government take measures to enable the national safeguard and projection of Portuguese sound, music and radio heritage through the competent bodies and that the measures adopted should be preceded by the preparation of a report setting out the existing options and setting up an action roadmap, in accordance with the broad lines of national cultural policies. The PSD Parliamentary Group has repeatedly alerted the Minister of Culture to the need to preserve the heritage and believes that it is important to create public conservation policies that guarantee the preservation of our historical identity and its use for future generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u3	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The construction of collective memory from the archives has been recurrent over the last decades. It's a multifaceted debate. It certainly places issues of an identity and heritage order, but also of another order, excommunicated from the instrumental and authoritarian vision of memory as a element of domination. in the perspective of the Left Block, the files are naturally dynamic, always unfinished, always fragmented, always open to the interaction of looks in search of meaning or, with greater rigor, multiple senses, are memory in construction. In Portugal we also have good examples of this memory, particularly in an area so often neglected, such as sound. And speaking of sound, the name that occurs immediately is, of course, Michel Giacometti's. It was he who created the Portuguese sound files in 1960. He published, until 1983, several record collections and an Antology of Portuguese Regional Music. From 1965 onwards, he systematically collected oral texts and, in collaboration with Fernando Lopes-Grace, in 1981, edited the Portuguese People's singer. Giacometti said, and I quote, "the first quality of an ethnomusicologist is love of work and sincere love of the people". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the overwhelming majority of European countries have a national sound archive. in them are found not only abundant musical and radio records in constant updating, but also stories, legends and so many other variants of old oral traditions. There are even records of sounds of nature and certain human activities. In Portugal, such does not happen. It is true that a number of public and private entities have done worthwhile work in the field of systematic collection and preservation of sound collections. These are the cases of the Etnomusicology Institute, the Fado Museum and the National Music Museum, to name only a few. But the national sound archive, often promised, remains delayed. For lack of specialized knowledge? No, they exist. For lack of technology? No, the technology exists. For lack of enthusiasm on the part of the interested ones, after all of us? On the contrary. And yet... Announced in 2006 — 12 years have passed — it has been the subject of multiple proclaiming acts, so far without consequences. I'd say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another proof that the place of culture at the table of the Budget of successive governments has actually been a non-place. Now, including the Socialist Party Election Program, as well as the Government Programme, and before the manifestation of political will expressed in the various draft resolutions presented here, as well as in the PCP bill, the Left Block wants to believe that the national sound file will even advance. A modern archive, open to the emancipating construction of memory, to citizenship. By valuing the common objective of all the proposals presented here, and despite the differences, the Left Block is available to enable the broadest consensus. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u5	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, and it began precisely with this point, it seems undeniable that Parliamentary consensus, which is not only of today, but also of the past, around this opportunity and urgency in creating the national sound archive. I believe that it is more productive to focus the debate precisely on how to implement it — although late, although the current government, the previous government, has failed to do so - than to try to ride things in which we all go wrong in the photograph, Mrs Helga Correia. Go up to the rostrum and proclaim yourself, seeking to reborn from the ashes that left the past, which Phoenix has now discovered the culture as the standard of his previous government behavior, as if we did not know what they did and what they did not do in the previous legislation, is not serious. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not serious, Mrs Deputies, because indeed it is not perceived by the citizens as being serious. We all certainly recognize that we would like to have the national sound file implemented a lot longer. We also recognize that it is complex the task of institution of the model that is on the table, because it is interdisciplinary, because it involves public and private entities, because it involves investment and because it involves the creation of a new service, where it never existed, increasing the difficulty of this matter. That is why the debate is timely. It is appropriate, because we are in the European Year of Cultural Heritage, it is appropriate, because, as I said, this matter has been put on the agenda several times without even being realized; it is relevant, because there are ongoing work that can and should be encouraged by a unanimous position taken by the Assembly of the Support Republic and it is also relevant, because it does indeed appear, as Mr Jorge Campos said earlier, of the Programme of the XXI Constitutional Government and is therefore an implementing measure. Heritage is indeed a mark of collective identity, a mark that is also valuable and must be valued as an additional document of our history, of our culture, and, by this way, as an additional factor of complexity in these tasks, it is also a source of knowledge, which must be available for research, which is why it is not restricted to the domain of the area of governmental action of the Ministry of Culture, before it has also to open the doors and be connected with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education and with all entities, public or private, which have sound archive available to its guard. For this reason, what we are facing is truly a double challenge: on the one hand, to continue and continue the inventory task, with a view to identifying what is in public and private hands, with a view to building up funds, with a view also to separating what is in conventional and digital support, and to creating the technology platforms to ensure conservation. On the other hand—the other axis of this challenge—to ensure, organize and promote the access of all citizens and citizens to this heritage, so that it may, by this way, not only be a safeguard factor of memory, but also a factor in the construction of the present and the future. It is in this complex panorama that we have to frame the initiatives that are already under way, those that are already being presented here today, and seeking to answer the question that the honourable Member has asked: "Where is the investment? », it is in the creation and development of an ongoing, triggered and renewed inter-ministerial work in 2017, which has already produced relevant fruits for the implementation of this initiative, in which we all want, I think, to frame this intervention. So what we are looking for today here is once again to emphasise Parliament's support for this fundamental area of safeguarding heritage, with the procedures still lacking, so that it is possible to complete the inventory and create the technical means, resources, teams, then to be able to manage it and to continue, in parallel, with all the actions of valuation, supporting the public and private entities that already develop work on the ground, and that already exists. That is, we are not in fact inventing the wheel, we are in some way allowed the analogy, to systematize, to organize the existing 'wheels' so that they can be accessible in a joint and structured way. That is why we should welcome all the initiatives under discussion today. I would, however, like to leave a note on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, although it has not yet submitted it but has already done so in the past: we only disagree on the form, since it seems to us that, when it comes to the creation of a public institution, it must be framed in the organisational activity of the Public Administration by the Government. We certainly do not disagree with the objectives, we do not disagree with the relevance and urgency of the matter, we cannot follow the way in which the same terms are being achieved, because it seems to us that, methodologically, there must be another way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u7	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national sound heritage, in its cultural diversity and expressions, is a common and identity legacy that must be preserved and disseminated and that must not be carried out mainly by private persons, i.e., the State must also assume its responsibilities. There is therefore a collective and public responsibility for compiling, archiving, preserving and disseminating this heritage, either making it accessible to research, or ensuring its access to the general public and its transmission to future generations. It is a heritage that is imperative to preserve. The responsibility goes, of course, beyond the work already done by the Etnomusicology Institute and also by the Fado Museum, which are expressions and actions that are also important to greet. It does not seem to us a complex task to accomplish, but it is important to say that the more time spent more complex it becomes the heritage that is lost. The truth is, however, that cultural policy has been revealed to be the poor relative of the choices of various governments and, within this, the policy of preservation of heritage has been turned, above all, to the tourist component, undermining a vast set of material and immaterial heritage that defines us culturally, socially and historically. On the other hand, it is worth recalling the intention of the former Government to privatize a wide range of this cultural heritage in an absolutely confrontational attitude, if we can say so, with regard to our identity component. The Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 150/2013 recommended to the Government that it assess the conceptual, institutional and budgetary aspects for the protection of sound documents that are part of the Portuguese cultural heritage, making this assessment dependent on the protection measures to be carried out. As the Greens did, it was an unproductive recommendation for the intended effect and it did not actually result in measures to preserve Portuguese sound heritage. in the background, it suggested studies, instead of concrete measures for the conservation and protection of sound heritage. in this matter, however, were not studies and evaluations that were required but, yes, political will and action determined for their realization. So far, there was no government that effectively threw hands to this work of realization, allowing the archive of this heritage to continue to be dispersed and incomplete, largely in the hands of private and collectors. The Greens, in line with previously assumed positions, believe that the State must be held responsible for this matter and that the creation of a sound archive is an urgent means of ensuring the compilation, preservation and dissemination of the national sound heritage. It is therefore necessary for the Government to act in this direction, in accordance with what it has already declared, not wasting more time with conceptual and institutional studies and assessments, in a field where there is no such need. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom The Greens today propose to the Assembly of the Republic approving the draft resolution of The Greens, which recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to create a national sound archive, with a view, I repeat, to the compilation, storage, preservation and dissemination of the national sound, musical and phonographic heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u9	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the various initiatives that are being discussed today show a very healthy consensus, in fact, on the valorization of sound documents that are Portuguese cultural heritage. This is because they are an axis of our identity that cannot, in any case, be neglected and cannot, under any circumstances, be lost. It is therefore essential that, within the Portuguese institutional framework, concrete measures be taken to ensure that this heritage is protected in all its diversity. with regard to cultural heritage in the area of sound documents, a gap remains, already addressed by everyone, with regard to systematic protection measures, by the State, both in archival and museumological terms, i.e., there is still no cultural policy strategy for preserving and making this heritage available. There is neither an institution nor a regulation to safeguard these sound documents with a systematisation and technical expertise required, despite the resolution already referred to by the 2013 Assembly and the establishment of a working team for the preparation of this strategy, which was then dissolved or discontinued, let us say so. however, it is important not to forget that many public and private entities are already occupying themselves in a fragmented and dispersed way with the storage, safeguard and promotion of sound collections. We cannot forget the already mentioned precursor Michel Giacometti with the creation of Portuguese sound files in 1960. But we also found the records at the National Ethnology Museum, the phonographic records handed over by the National Music Museum, the Fado Museum, the National Theatre Museum, the Portuguese Music Museum and by several other museums and various universities, libraries and phone libraries. For all these examples, there is a need for a public policy, an integrated policy and a concerted policy for this area, under the penalty of loss, degradation and dispersion of this immense sound heritage, unique and brand of our Portuguese cultural and musical diversity. In other words, it is necessary to create the appropriate and effective conditions for the conservation of this heritage and its access by the community. This should constitute a design and a priority of the action of the Government, taking advantage of and promoting, again, the work already done in this area by several institutions. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, this is not about diabolizing this government, but the fact is that this plan is contained in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party, the Government of the Socialist Party, the Great Options of the Plan 2016 - 2019 and urged, several times, the Minister of Culture in hearing, at the headquarters of 12. the Commission replied whenever the work was under way and action was being taken. The truth is, perhaps because it is an immaterial matter, none of us are aware of what is happening and nothing has happened so far. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u11	As not only Mr Deputies but several others have said, it is not such a difficult matter, there is only political will. With the new technologies, there is only one aggregate pole that channels systematically and makes this preservation of this heritage. Therefore, Mr President, it is true that we all have a collective responsibility, but this government, which is already in office and which has already reiterated it in written and verbal form, has not made any progress on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u12	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u13	Mr President, I will conclude by saying that the CDS is, of course, available to enable other initiatives and hopes that we can achieve a resolution that is consensual to all banks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u14	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every day that passes without the file is a day when more sound heritage is lost... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u16	... and for too long we have been talking about the need to create a national sound file, for too long it is due to be given full compliance with the conditions required by Decree-Law No 74/82, as regards the deposit of phonograms. But we speak of much more, we speak of a serious insufficiency of public service of art and culture, of forgetting for lack of concrete action of a vast part of the heritage of our country. The truth is that there is still a lack of infrastructure with the physical, technological, material, financial and human conditions that can study, treat, safeguard and disseminate a dimension of our cultural heritage, all of which already have many difficulties, but this portion of cultural heritage cannot be minimized. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that this is not only about recommendations. In fact, it was seen in the previous government that it served the recommendation to make a group, to do studies, to make recommendations to, eventually, one day, who knows, create a national sound archive. He didn't hit anything! What we want is to launch a challenge for, with this bill that we present, in order to move on to the good ideas that are consensual and that everyone thinks very well, take on these good intentions and put them to practice. We have to point out the following: it is at least the third time that the Socialist Party has entered into the intention of creating a national sound archive in its electoral programme, it is in fact in the Government Programme, but we are already going to more than half the legislature and, therefore, we will not be able to say that we are doing studies and that the situation is complex. We need to take action! In view of this situation, today the CFP presents a bill that has already removed one of the criticisms raised by the Socialist Party in relation to whether or not it is a public institute. We took that and we gave him a different margin. We also have the possibility, in our specialty, to be taken into account aspects that are proposed in the draft resolutions, but that are definitely in the same direction as the draft law of the CFP, and we have the opportunity, once and for all, to enshrine in the law that we will create this national sound file, that its regulation will take place after the entry into force of the law, which will be after the next State Budget. It takes time to complete studies, to organize the work that the Socialist Party proposes in the draft resolution, evaluate the financial resources and put once and for all, in practice, this national sound archive, which is a necessity of our country, is a necessity of our cultural heritage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u17	It is not acceptable to continue in a perspective where things are done, no structure is given, no means are given to them and no path is given to them. This means that the most likely thing is, when there is a lack of political will for any government there, not having the consecration in law, there is no national archive. What we say is the opposite: if you do the law, think of the means, give yourself the organization. We have a joint work base in the Assembly of the Republic and the CFP, at the workplace in the specialty, is fully available to enrich and count on contributions to realize this national sound archive. I also wanted to say that, on our part, we will all continue to do so that this sound file is a reality. The Portuguese Communist Party was the first parliamentary group to present an initiative in this sense in the Assembly of the Republic, it is a question that has been claimed by many academics, scientists, researchers, so many people who, in fact, need to see this recognized work, need to have access to this component of culture. So what we say is that we need a government that is determined to value the national sound heritage. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u18	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I would like to remind you that in Sala D. Maria is holding elections of members to the Higher Council for Internal Security and the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products. We will move on to point three of the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of the following diplomas: Bill No. 744 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 745 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No. 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the dimension of the Vital Testament to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by aggravating penalties and criminalizing a set of conducts that violate the rights of the elderly person ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution 1272 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider the need for and the possibility of creating an existing structure, or providing an existing capacity, resources and competence, which may give an integrated and cross-cutting response to people at risk or vulnerability, in particular with regard to the promotion and protection of the rights of older persons ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1273/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the proposed revision of the Civil Code ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1274 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the plan of action and implementation of the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging 2017 - 2025 ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1277 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the status of the informal caregiver until the end of the first half of 2018 ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by criminalizing new conduct against particularly vulnerable persons ( PAN ) ; Bill No 750 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a special consumer protection regime for the protection of elderly persons ( PAN ) ; Bill No 755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-ninth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply, and the adequacy of a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD ) ; Bill No 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the eighth amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the organs of the local authorities, the seventh amendment to the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, adopted by Act No. 15 -A / 98 of 3 April, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by the Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, according to the electoral incapacity active to the new civil disability regime ( PSD ) ; draft resolution No. 1305 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen monitoring of elderly households to ensure the dignity of users ( The Greens ) ; draft resolution No 1308 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the promotion of rights aging ( CFP ). To present the legislative initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this intervention exactly as I have done here, from this same forum, in December 2015 — « Now the legal and social protection of the elderly person is on the political agenda of all and, for what matters here, in your hands». The year 2015 ended, ended 2016, arrived at the end of 2017, and entered the year 2018. Today, the CDS returns to the subject for the third time. It returns for the third time to the protection of the elderly, not by a special compulsion or by a particular theimosia, but rather because it does not give up 20% of the Portuguese population, because it does not give up in a country where there are three elderly who are victims of crime per day, because it does not give up in a country where between 5% and 15% of the total hospital beds are occupied by the elderly who, although they do not need hospital care, are left to their own fate, whether they cannot or not want to have them, either by the State, who does not provide timely social responses to those who need it most. But, above all, he returns for the third time to the subject because this pure majority has simply resolved to ignore the problem. Not only did it lead all and any initiative we have put forward for the protection of older people, as it did not in two and a half years realize a single alternative to resolving the issue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the debate where it must really be done, without empty demagogy that only serves to divert the attention of the emptiness in which we live in matters of protection for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u21	What the CDS proposes is not to penalize those who no longer have anything or can no longer and it is not, at all, that there are no social responses to those who need it most. On the contrary, what CDS proposes is that the State takes care of the caregiver who often sees himself without strength and without answers to give more. The CDS was the first to propose the status of informal caregiver in 2016, but unfortunately, until now, the answers insist on not arriving. And what about the proposal for an active ageing strategy, which, shamefully, plummeted in 2016? A year later, they finally resolved that it was a good idea and made a working group to study this strategy. What do we have two years later? A strategy that does not come out of the paper and that therefore does not serve anything or anyone. Not to mention the disability regime, which only yesterday, curiously, was approved in the Council of Ministers and began to see the light of the day! And, yes, after the social responses, the CDS believes that the penalties for the abuse of an elderly person or the abuse of him or her and for the violation of the obligation to feed him should be aggravated. The CDS understands more: that the heir who commits the crime of exposure or abandonment or violation of the food obligation cannot inherit the person against whom he has committed the crime. Moreover, we already know that they disagree to penalize those who willfully and guiltyly abandon an elderly person in the hospital or in an illegal home or take advantage of the frailty of an elderly person to keep him with what he has saved throughout his life. And we know your arguments: « No one abandons an elderly person because he wants », « no one intentionally does », « they only do because they have no economic means ». However, the harsh reality discredits the pink world in which they insist on living. There are those who do so, in fact, because they do not have the means and, for them, the social responses that you systematically deny and add are urgent. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, go through these hospitals outside and listen to what the professionals tell them, who is there every day and knows very well that there are elderly people abandoned by families who simply don't want to know. For the CDS, this is an act, in such cases and only in such cases, that must be duly punished. Probably we are no longer going in time to solve the problem of Mary, who, 91 years old, was beaten by a double assailants, or the one of Antonio, who was beaten to steal 20 €, or even the one of Joseph, who was tormented by a home assistant in whom he lived to steal his life's savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u22	That was already considered a crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u23	But we can still go in time to save Manuel, Ana Paula or Maria, so want this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u24	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u25	Demagogy is the one Mr. Demagogy. Deputies are constantly using it and calling it here. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] Calling for the title of a film that appeals a great deal to the question that we are debating today, if today they reject again what the CDS proposes, only one conclusion will be drawn: this majority is not for the old. But you can be sure that, where the CDS depends, this country will never cease to be for the older ones as well. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u26	To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP today brings the debate to two initiatives that aim to assign more rights and provide greater protection to especially vulnerable people because of age. We understand that it is necessary to guarantee the elderly conditions of social support, particularly in health, social benefits and housing, but we also believe that, in addition, we must go further, criminalizing unacceptable conduct against them, being an obligation of the State to have answers for both cases and to ensure the application of the law, and that these functions cannot be dismissed due to the alleged lack of means. We all know that the State is often inefficient in combating intolerable conduct, such as domestic violence or trafficking in human beings, but this should not, however, prevent Parliament from conferring more rights and protection on these people. in this sense, the physical, psychological or emotional fragility in which many elderly people find themselves potentiate their subjection to acts of violence, abuse or lack of the care they are due, making them still easy victims of offenses to their heritage often by close people. thus, we propose the criminalization of the abandonment of the elderly, who are in a state of dependence, in health or hospital establishments; the conduct of the institutions that refuse the reception of the elderly because they refuse to deliver goods of greater value than the proper monthlyity; of those who, aiming their personal enrichment, perform acts or business with the especially vulnerable victim and find themselves, at the date, unable to make decisions autonomously. These conducts, although censorable, do not find criminal provision, which is why we consider their criminalization relevant. And we are not alone, because this is also the understanding of several entities, such as the Order of Lawyers, the Supreme Council of the Magistrates, the Union of the Magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges, according to the opinions of these deliveries in the Assembly of the Republic. On the other hand, we intend to amend existing consumer protection legislation, protecting the elderly more strongly, providing for longer deadlines for the exercise of the right to free resolution of contracts, as well as fines for non-compliance, higher when the contractors are elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u28	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that these proposals will allow the care of those who have the most accurate, those who have the least and those who have the least, protecting the elderly from abuse and ill-treatment, giving them greater protection and dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u30	To present the legislative initiatives of the PSD, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u31	Mr. President and Mr. Members: PSD's legislative initiatives fall within the age protection strategy adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 63 / 2015 of 25 August 2015 and resumes, with several amendments, the bills that were presented here in December 2015 — there are 26 months. within the framework of the Civil Code, the PSD continues to consider it an unforgettable priority to change the disability regime and its supply, as it is deeply out of date and does not provide adequate answers to the reality in which we live. in our draft law, we propose the reversal of the logic of the rule so far in force, considering that, in principle, all people are endowed with full legal capacity, thus expressly delimiting the concrete area of exercise disability that affects a certain person. We assume a global and integrated view of the person with reduced capacity as a subject of rights and redesign the institutes of interdiction and disability, now designated by guardianship and curatela, creating a new figure of general character: the measures of protection of the elderly in situations of disability. This new figure includes two institutions of the law of obligations which are adapted to the objectives, namely mandate and business management. These measures for the protection of older persons in situations of disability must comply with the following principles: principle of human dignity; principle of hearing and participation; principle of information; principle of necessity and proportionality; principle of flexibility and heritage preservation. As regards the mandate, the rule is that personal rights are excluded from their scope, but the grantor may, however, appoint a health care attorney. It is intended to distinguish clearly between personal rights and property rights, stressing that, as for the first, the rule is that they must be exercised by the holder himself. In view of the overall coherence of the legal system, these amendments imply changes in the rules of the Civil Code and other legislation—from the Civil Procedure Code to the regulation of de facto unions, the production of assisted medicinal products and the vital will—as well as amending the electoral laws aimed at adapting the electoral incapacity active to this new regime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u32	To present the Greens' legislative initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say something about the intervention that Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS has just done, because I was left with the idea that all the examples she gave of initiatives that the CDS took were from 2016 onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u34	From 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u35	The question that needs to be asked is the following: why did you not do things like that when you were in government and, in particular, when you had a majority in the Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u36	1 - 0!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u37	Mrs. Member, I will remind you of some things that you have done and will try to correlate this with the protection of the elderly: when you sought, at all costs, to devalue and cut pensions;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u39	... when you have made a law of income which has been known as the "law of evictions", which has put many elderly people on the street ; when you have worked to disrupt the working hours of children who want to care for their parents but cannot because the law of the fierce market which you have created and the total deregulation of working hours does not allow them; or when you have contributed to closing transport careers, making the elderly less autonomous. Would you like more examples, Mrs. Member? Do you want to? Are these not enough to show you that you have destroyed the lives of many elderly people? Oh, my God! The honourable Member is laughing because she thinks it's funny! It is here to propose measures in the role, but as far as the measures that have clearly conditioned the specific life of the elderly are concerned, it gives him the will to laugh! [[CDS-PP protests.]] By the way, I would like to say that beating up an elderly person — domestic violence, as you said here — is already a crime, Mrs Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u40	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u41	They're not making anything up again! It is obvious that it is already a crime and that it is absolutely reprehensible. Would you like me to tell you something, Your Honor? The easiest way to wash consciences but so that everything remains in it is to aggravation of sorrows. It's the easiest way, but the CDS loves it, so that everything will stay exactly the same. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] What I think is even a positive contribution is the initiative that the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic. If we want to talk about the abandonment of the elderly, we have to say that there are many homes, where the elderly are deposited and stored—they have no other name—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u42	And the Greens are going to vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u43	... that they need to be monitored and targeted. And we know that most of the homes are private or are protocoled with social security and that there is an absolute shortage of public response in this matter. There is a shortage of homes and there is a shortage of collective public response to the needs of the elderly and the families! There are many homes where the elderly do not have autonomy, when they should win it, where there are no concrete policies for active aging, when there should be, where they are deposited and stored, when they should not be a deposit and a storage of people, where they are given excessive medication, where they put them all day to watch television so as not to give work, and where, unfortunately, some, as we have had public knowledge, are subjected to ill-treatment. This has to end in our country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u44	It's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u45	in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Members, what the Greens have specifically proposed to the Assembly of the Republic is that the monitoring of the homes of the elderly with regard to their working conditions and that there is a systematic information gathering to inform the Assembly of the contribution that the homes of the elderly make to the promotion of components of active ageing and that the overall number of vacancies per institution as well as the number of people on the waiting list are also made public. These are concrete and very useful proposals which the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u46	All right! [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u47	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, from the rostrum, today came to talk about social responses and protection of the elderly, having expressed concern about the responsibility of the State in the protection of their elderly, but the fact is that when he was in government he cut reforms and pensions, took the solidarity supplement to more than 70,000 elderly people, expelled elderly people from their homes with the "dispatch law", increased prices and spending on food, energy, health, transport, removed the right to transport to non-emergency patients preventing the elderly from going to treatment, consultations or even medical examinations. This is the concept of the CDS of social protection of the elderly, a concept that was seen in practice while he was in government, when he was able to protect and did not want. What you did was deny fundamental rights to the elderly in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u49	This is your practice, this is the way they defend for the elderly in our country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Increased life expectancy should be understood as a civilizational achievement and should be accompanied by better living conditions, guaranteeing the right to age with rights and dignity. However, this right to age with rights and dignity is inseparable from the value of pensions, as the CFP has defended, from strengthening social protection, measures that guarantee full access to health, which also guarantee the right to mobility, which create the conditions conducive to the integral development of people throughout life and to the right to cultural creation and enjoyment, to the occupation of free time with healthy activities and to participation in social and political life. We present a parliamentary initiative which also aims to ensure that the State assumes its social responsibilities in monitoring and protecting the elderly. We propose that multidisciplinary teams be created with responsibility for monitoring and social intervention of proximity to this population. We propose that they be considered, together with the associations and organizations of pensioners, pensioners and elderly, measures to combat isolation and loneliness; to create a public network of responses and social equipment, as well as other equipment and services to support older people; to promote activities that maintain this active social group and to enhance the involvement and active participation of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly and their associated movement. We also propose that special attention be paid to health issues. Regarding this, it is important to remember that it is also the responsibility of the CDS to close hospital valences, the closure of public services and nearby health centres, denying the elderly the right and access to health. That is also your responsibility. We propose to strengthen the public response with effective measures to promote health and prevent the disease by betting on primary health care. We also propose that public response be strengthened in the care of physical medicine and rehabilitation, in the integrated continuous care and palliative care, as well as professionals, in numbers and diversity, affected by shared care units ( URAP ). We also propose that joint measures be promoted between the different functional units of primary health care and institutions that receive elderly people, in order to suit the provision of health care to these users. The right to age with rights and dignity is inseparable from cross-cutting measures that raise the living conditions of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly and which realize fundamental rights. This is the contribution that the CFP here leaves for that path to be made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u50	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us then speak of abandonment. Previous government policy on reforms, previous government policy on solidarity with the elderly, previous government policy on the transport of patients, previous government policy on medicines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u52	What now? What's it like? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u53	... previous government policy on the reduction of the rights of working families who may or may not stay with their elderly. This is what we mean when we talk about the abandonment of the elderly. Is this what you want to criminalize? [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is that if you want to criminalize this, perhaps you will have some unexpected support. But let me say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the projects that the CDS brings about on this subject are, in fact, very interesting. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said "we will no longer be in time to save Manuel and we will no longer be in time to save Maria". The honourable Member will understand that we are not only going to save Manuel from the ill-treatment that has been inflicted on him by any villain who wants to steal €25, if I don't miss my memory, or €20 — I think it was €20 that the honourable Member mentioned — if we don't take into account what you didn't take into account. It's a crime. So being a crime, I don't understand why we're not going on time. In fact, it's even aggravating crime, say pass. As Mrs. Deputy, you know, you're in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u54	You know, but you forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u55	Therefore, let us agree: abandonment, I know - well, it has several causes and this principle, this finding, in the name of seriousness, should lead to a very prudent approach to this matter and, therefore, not criminalizing, for example, those families that do not have the capacity to, in a serious, dignified and careful way, have their elderly with you. There are acts, what you call 'abandonment', which are honest with those families who cannot effectively have their elderly with you. Therefore, the criminal approach in this area, from our point of view, poses an incontrovertible risk: that of criminalizing those who do not have the means to care for their elderly. And we don't accept that in any way. Let us add only one point. A proposal was also submitted by the PSD regarding the disability scheme. This is, of course, something that needs to be examined with all due care, a matter that should deserve our greatest attention — indeed, the national mechanism accompanying the implementation of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, for example, has put this issue as one of the most important matters, in a perspective different from the one presented here by the PSD. By the way, we heard yesterday — the honourable Members. Members and Members of the PSD know this — that a government diploma was adopted yesterday. from this bench, there is one suggestion that I hope it will echo on the PSD bench: in order to do a legislative work that gives an effective and serious response in this matter, your diploma goes down to its committee to, in the specialty, together with the other initiatives, we can work. If not, we will have that idea that it is a flag which is intended to be conquered at a given time, but that there is indeed no firm will to really answer this question. That's the suggestion we left. We hope that there will be a positive response from the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u56	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all aware that the ageing of the population is a reality today. Portugal is one of the European countries where this reality has a more significant expression. The Government has assumed the responsibility to address this problem with a set of very concrete measures, of which I stress: the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Ageing 2017 - 2015; the creation of the figure of the informal caregiver and their status; the revision of the Civil Code and related legislation, which will allow to change the paradigm set out in the 1966 Civil Code with regard to the Institute of Incapacity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, precisely on this subject yesterday, a bill was adopted in the Council of Ministers, resulting in a broad consensus generated in society, academics and medical and legal communities on the need to reformulate the solutions that exist today in the 1966 Civil Code, which not only does it not meet the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as they do not respond to the meaning of demographic change and the increase of life expectancy. This profound reform of our Civil Code, which will now reach Parliament, is based on the principle of the primacy of the autonomy of the visa and whose will must be respected and exploited to the extent possible, thus creating the figure of the greatest person accompanying it. This is the time to structure our legal-civil order by creating a new regime for the supply of so-called "incapacity of the elderly". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these answers are in the antithesis of the idea that the solution of emerging problems of aging and the protection of the elderly goes through a criminal response, i.e. by maintaining the current framework of the supply of disabilities, solutions that are reflected in the bills and draft resolutions, today under discussion, presented by the CDS, the PSD and the NAP. We will all agree that many of our elderly people live in situations of social exclusion, without any support and complete isolation. We will all agree that any conduct against the elderly is required to merit inherent social censorship and that it must be penalized even when it falls within the statutory criminal nature. Yes, penalized, because it is demagogy and misinformation to invoke that the solution is to criminalize when the ill-treatment of the elderly and especially vulnerable people is punishable criminally. But we also need to be aware that it is precisely in the groups with the lowest economic condition that, in most cases, the alleged abandonment situations occur, because both caregivers and the elderly live in conditions below the poverty threshold and therefore with greater difficulties in providing support and more careful assistance. This reality requires the legislator not to give in to the temptation to make laws that aim to incriminate and punish those who do not have resources, refocusing everything on a question of economic condition, without the inherent social response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want a criminal right for the poor! To devalue the lack of a social response, as is apparent from some sectors of opinion that take a criminal response in their public discourse is not the right way. Proposals based on the criminalization of behaviors or the worsening of criminal sanctions suffer from the inability to understand the social dimension of the problem. Like the proposed amendments to the Civil Code, changing the regime of incapacity and its supply that do not take precedence over the autonomy of the visa, respecting its will, capacity and autonomy, do not meet the challenges of the present and go contrary to the winds of time. The path is appreciation and respect for autonomy and will, with an effective social response. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our way! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u58	You have the floor for an intervention Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u59	Madam President, when I was a child, the roads were bad and the trips took a long time. [[Oh!Oh, my ……]] [[Oh!Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u60	But my parents' car was hardly starting a question, which was: when did we get here? The answer was almost always the same: it's almost there. [[BE's laughs.]] It is curious that the way of ruling this Minister of Justice, supported by the PCP and the Block of the Left, brings these childhood memories to my memory. It's almost there! 26 months ago solutions were presented here for concrete problems. Response from the Socialist Party, supported by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party : it is almost! And this 'almost' took 26 months. And if this response is admissible in relations between parents and children, it is totally unacceptable for citizens and political parties to be treated exactly the same way as children. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am glad that the PSD has resubmitted this proposal for a review of the civil code's inadequacies. This made us no longer entitled to 'almost', but to 'almost', because we were now entitled to two paragraphs in the Council of Ministers communiqué we met yesterday. And, Madam President, we doubt very much that, if it were not for this PSD representation, this « is almost» was not the old « is almost » until the end of this legislature. I am glad that the Minister of Justice has taken this opportunity to leave for a few brief moments of the chance of invisibility to which she has been referred, both in this and in so many other matters. Only the country can't wait! It is absolutely unacceptable that, on the occasion of this debate which the PSD here has brought about the incapacity, if you want to discuss a project that no one knows. It has now been said by Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party that it is a project that has a great consensus in Portuguese society and in the legal community. Can you present this project to us? Do we know that text? Nobody knows him! We now know two paragraphs in the Council of Ministers communiqué. But I am glad that it is, but I am glad that we are almost, because we have already lost a lot of time, time which is irrecoverable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u61	You now have the floor by the PCP, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS strategy for the elderly is easy to understand. The CDS feels this way: "How are we going to get people to forget all the harm we did to the elderly when we were in government? Oh, my God! This is to say that the fault of the troika is no longer convincing anyone. Therefore, we will open a contest of ideas to present initiatives on the elderly. And this contest of ideas has indeed been extremely prolific, produced many initiatives, and initiatives as extraordinary as one that recommends to the Government to present a proposal for a revision of the Civil Code. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] With so much luck, at the time when the draft resolution is discussed, the Government has already adopted a proposal for a revision of the Civil Code in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u63	Until the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u64	But what's extraordinary is that, if that hadn't been done... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let me speak. As I was saying, what is extraordinary is that, if the Government had not done so, the CDS went through the ridiculous situation of recommending that the Government approve a revision of the Civil Code without even knowing what revision would be. Would it be good? Would that be bad? You don't know, what matters is recommending. In the field of criminalization, the CDS insisted on the idea that social problems should be solved through the criminalization of the poor. But pay attention, because the CDS has to take into account that the NAP also presented a criminalization project and has already become the champion of criminalizations in this House, has already taken that cup to the CDS. So if you insist on criminalizing, criminalizing, criminalizing, paying attention, because you already have a competitor here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u65	Mr Fernando Anastácio, who has 33 seconds, speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u66	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, let us be intellectually honest: a reform of the Civil Code and the disability regime was not done last night in two lines in the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u67	I hope not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u68	And the honourable Member knows as well as I do that there's been a working group over a year ago preparing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u69	Do you have a text?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u70	Sir, you know him! Everyone knows him, the technical and scientific community has discussed him, there are public opinions about him. Sir, let's be true, let's not do demagogy! So, I am glad that there is also a PSD project on this subject, because this diploma will come to Parliament, and we are going to work on a real and serious reform of the disability status. But let's not demagogy, let's not say here what we know is not true, because that doesn't make any sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u71	The Bureau does not record any more entries, and as you know, it is time for the party presenting the first initiative to conclude the discussions. Thus, for the conclusion of this debate, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, a little while ago, invoked his child travels and I also liked to invoke memories of my child and that have to do with a book that read many times and that I still like today, which was Alice in Wonderland. The gentlemen. Left-wingers live in a world of complete fantasy, cantoned in the past, because they have absolutely nothing to present in the future. Do you know what you have to present in the future? I'll tell them! In 2018, you increased the light, increased the bread, increased the transports... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u73	Did we cut pensions, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u74	...and they have bigger waiting lists than those in 2015, which you so much invoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u75	We haven't cut pensions, have we, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u76	Therefore, I would like to realize that the world in which you live has nothing to do with the world in which you live. What I wanted to tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, even after all, what you have to assume here, once and for all, is that for you a crime committed against an elderly person is not special and particularly serious. Take it! But if you are not particular and particularly serious, it is for us, and you will always have the weight and burden of that responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the third point of our agenda is thus concluded. I remember the ladies. Members of whom there are elections to the Higher Council for Internal Security and the National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products. We shall continue, with the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1098/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the nutritional light in the food packaged ( BE ), 1297 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the system of nutritional traffic lights and carcinogenic traffic lights in the mandatory nutritional declaration contained in the food packaged ( PAN), 1298 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national campaign for promoting and valuing the Mediterranean diet ( PCP ) and 1310 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — On the labelling of food (The Greens). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Food and our food choices have an intimate relationship with health and our quality of life. So far, no news. There are even examples that we all know: diabetes is a mostly avoidable disease that is very related to our food choices; in Portugal, the average daily intake of salt is twice what is recommended by the World Health Organization and this obviously has a great implication in the prevalence of cardiovascular diseases. Again, up here, no news. But if there is no novelty, there must be conclusions, and one of the conclusions is that we need to promote better food choices and ensure more years of life, with more health and better quality of life. We are not talking about restrictive measures, we are not talking about prohibitive measures in relation to certain foods, we are talking about measures that promote the informed and conscious consumption of these foods. We therefore bring to this debate this initiative of creating and placing a nutritional light on food packages. It is a simple, intuitive system that allows any consumer to quickly understand the amount of sugar, salt and fat that exists in a particular food. thus, the consumer can decide, more consciously, whether a particular food is beneficial to his or her health and irrespective of whether he or she wants to consume it. That's all that's at stake. It will always be up to the consumer to decide whether or not to acquire the product, but it will do so in a much more informed way, in a much more conscious way and knowing the implications and consequences of his decision. This is also a measure supported by the Directorate-General for Health and which responds to several limitations detected in a study conducted last year, which said that only 59 % of consumers actually read the nutritional table that already exists in the packages and that, of these, 40 % cannot understand the information that is there. And these people, when polled, said they preferred a simpler system, a code of colors, to better understand what really is the composition of food. Now, that is exactly what we propose here: the creation and placement of a nutritional light in packaged foods. It is a good practice, it is a practice defended, as I have already said, by the Directorate-General of Health and which will encourage good food decisions, also providing good results in the health of each and every one of us and good health indicators of all, as a country. What we hope is that Parliament today will also make a good decision, approving this initiative and creating this system of food traffic lights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u79	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a NAP project aimed at strengthening the right to information of consumers, including in the mandatory nutritional declaration of foods packaged the nutritional light, because it is a system of easy perception and therefore an effective way of identifying, by consumers, healthier products. But we also propose that information on the carcinogenic potential of foods be transparent and available to consumers in packaged foods. In October 2015, a report by the International Cancer Research Agency ( IARC ), a body of the World Health Organization, produced by a working group of experts from 10 countries that took into account more than 800 published scientific studies showed the negative health consequences associated with the consumption of red meat and, in particular, processed meat. The studies suggest that the risk of colos-retal cancer may increase by about 17 % per 100 g of ingested red meat per day, with possible risk associated with the appearance and development of pancreatic and prostate cancer, which has been considered probably carcinogenic. Processed meat, i.e., that which was transformed through a process of salt, healing, fermentation, smoking or other processes in order to improve its taste and preservation, such as sausages, bacon and fiambre, was considered carcinogenic and included in Group 1 where, for example, ultraviolet rays, tobacco, asbestos and alcohol are found. It cannot be ignored that the meat processed is consumed in large quantities by the Portuguese population, without, in the vast majority of cases, people understand the health impacts associated with this consumption, pointing out the studies to increase the risk of colos-retal cancer by 18 % every 50 g of processed meat per day, the inclusion in the nutritional declaration of the carcinogenic potential of foods will contribute to more conscious and informed choices and, consequently, to reduce the pathological patterns associated with the consumption of these products. Finally, and no less important, we believe that these measures, in order to be effective, should be accompanied by campaigns directed at the consumer, with the aim of increasing food literature focusing on the interpretation of the labels and decoding of the traffic lights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u81	You now have the floor to present the initiative of the CFP, Mr João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss several food projects, starting from an initial agenda on the creation of a nutrition signaling system for packaged foods, also called « nutritional light ». Nutritional issues, eating habits, the quality and diversification of diet have been accompanied by different initiatives, here in the Assembly of the Republic. For the PCP, the preferential line of intervention in eating habits, to make them healthier, starts by working behaviors and attitudes and less by tax, prohibitionist or alarmist. It was with this principle that the CFP presented, and was included in the State Budget for 2018, the creation, with the involvement of the agri-food industry, a plan of goals to reduce the amount of sugar, salt and trans fatty acids. A plan to affect pre-packaged food and meals or provided at meals by 2020. All this falls within the goals and objectives of the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food. It is with this same principle that the PCP understands that a system, of the type of which are now proposed, visual, by color signalers, can mislead consumers, since a nutrient classified with a colour that is considered good can stimulate its consumption without any need for limitation, as a color that is considered bad can lead to the rejection of a necessary food being consumed moderately. In addition, in the second line, a colourful marking system can bring a negative image to various regional products such as fillings or laticians, which will bring even more difficulties to small producers in the country. Because it is different, the CFP follows the Greens proposal, since it points to the development of nutritional information, in order to improve the seizure of the contained information. The CFP believes that it is fundamental a strategy that promotes consumption and eating habits not only healthier but also capable of boosting the consumption of domestic food. It therefore believes that the country has, in terms of healthy food, an active diet, a Mediterranean diet, which plays a key role in promoting healthy food behaviour. This diet was inscribed on the list of Unesco Humanity Immaterial Cultural Heritage. in the application process it is possible to read the position of several entities regarding the benefits of this diet: the Portuguese Society of Cardiology referred to the relevant importance of the Mediterranean diet in promoting Portuguese health, the Director-General of Health or the Portuguese Association of Nutritionists pointed out that the removal of the fundamental values of the Mediterranean diet brings consequences to the health and well-being of the populations. Also for economic activity, and especially for family farming, the promotion of the Mediterranean diet can have a positive effect, given that this diet has as a basic element bread and olive oil and in it also have a fundamental importance the consumption of fish, the moderate consumption of meat, with strong presence of birds and small ruminants, the products of garden and wild products, which may also be very valued. In food matters, more than the products consumed, will be the quantities, diversity and balances to determine the effects on human health. The Mediterranean diet, a cultural element of gastronomy and socialization, developed over centuries and of diverse cultural assimilations, contains in itself this element of balance and moderation that has to be valued and promoted. It is on this basis that the CFP recommends that the Government develop a national campaign to promote and enhance the Mediterranean diet, including at school meals and other public meals, while respecting the alternative diets already provided for in the law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u83	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that there is a causal link between diets and chronic non-communicable diseases. For example, obesity and diabetes are enhanced by excessive consumption of fat and sugar, while the abuse of salt and saturated fat leads to the development of cardiovascular diseases. On the other hand, a fiber-rich diet is preventive of the generality of these diseases and calcium can contribute to preventing osteoporosis. It is in this sense, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that consumer food choices are fundamental and it is essential for consumers to have access to knowledge about the nutritional content of food. That is why the labels and, within the labels, the nutritional statement, or nutritional table, as we want to call them, are fundamental. Consumers generally find it difficult to interpret the declaration or nutritional table. There is no doubt about that, and it is important to be aware that these nutritional declarations are not addressed to technicians and specialists, but to consumers. That is precisely why it can be claimed that consumers do not make good use of food labels, and consequently an effective barrier to nutritional information to the consumer is created. It was precisely in order to overcome this barrier that has already been created, and experienced, simplified nutritional information schemes, including the nutritional traffic light, which uses a colour system to inform, essentially, about fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt levels of a certain portion of food—if they are high, red, if medium, amber color, if they are low, green color is indicated. Another system was also created, the guiding stars, inspired by the hotel assessment method, which does not discriminate against nutrients and makes overall a nutritional assessment of the product according to the official health criteria—if you have a star the product is good, if you have two is better and if you have three is the best. And another system was also created, that of the single-colour, blue flags, which are essentially aimed at clearly indicating the percentage of a portion that a certain food product represents in the context of the daily reference values for consumption. All these schemes have advantages of simplification, but they are also pointed to some disadvantages. For example, in the case of nutritional traffic lights, it is common to point out the disadvantage of consumers tending to count the number of greens, ambers and reds, concluding that they have fewer reds is because the product is good; the guiding stars point to the disadvantage of not disaggregating any type of information; in the case of single flags it is taken as a disadvantage the fact that it is difficult for the consumer to understand what that indicated portion is, even though it is related to the daily reference value. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be excessive to ask for a completely disadvantage-free scheme to be created, but it is important, in fact, that we can think about and experience some simplified scheme. With this, the Greens understand that there is no need to disregard the importance of consumers being able to fully interpret labels and nutritional tables. If we are to question the young people of our schools who have completed compulsory education, everyone remembers having given the food wheel or the food pyramid in school, but few or no one remembers having given anything at school that would lead them to learn how to interpret the nutritional table. This means that there is something that is failing at school, that is a gap that must be just overridden. Finally, Madam President, what the Greens are proposing is for the Government to assess the implementation of a simplified scheme for food nutrition information, which takes into account the already practised experiences involving representatives of nutritionists, consumers, industrial producers and distributors, and finally ensuring the learning, schools, reading and interpretation of the nutritional table. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u85	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are informed and aware that today, in Portugal, inadequate eating habits are the most likely factor that contributes to the total loss of healthy life of the population, with effects in the present and future, and therefore has been the political priority of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the current Government to the appreciation, debate and regulation of topics related to healthy food, local supply and quality standards in public canteens, as well as legislative and regulatory changes to apply to the agri-food industry, in order to provide all citizens with access to balanced, varied and diversified meals, from the point of view of food and nutrition security. The Council of Ministers recently decided to set up a working group to develop an integrated strategy for promoting healthy food, which aims to encourage adequate food consumption and the consequent improvement of the nutritional status of citizens, with a direct impact on the prevention and control of chronic diseases. This strategy follows the recommendations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and will work in a joint way with the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food, which aims to implement a set of measures to ensure food security and the increase of the literary and nutritional culture of the Portuguese population. We also know that opting for a healthier diet requires the consumer to be properly informed about his options, so the nutritional information contained in the labels is instrumental in making healthier choices in the act of buying food. However, we believe that this issue should not be worked out of the European framework by looking for appropriate solutions in order to be compatible with the single market and to safeguard the important balance between consumer information and economic dynamics. Solutions in this area until there is a uniform European standard must go through the possibility of industry adopting, if it so wishes, and optionally, an alternative labelling system. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that the best information, training and education are factors that can contribute to making people more conscious and responsible so as to avoid health problems related to bad or inadequate eating habits. In addition to the steps already taken, the Government has the support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to continue to develop a national campaign to promote and enhance the Mediterranean diet, including through information in the media, food indications from our schools and the strengthening of the framework of education for health, where an approach is already given to the food standard of the Mediterranean diet, universally considered as a healthy model and with consequences for the health and well-being of the populations, even more so when the fifth anniversary of its classification as the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of UNESCO's Humanity is approaching. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u87	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS obviously looks at the principles underlying the ultimate objective, as these projects seem to have, to promote a more informed choice of the consumer, thus contributing to a healthier diet, with a reflection, of course, on the health of consumers themselves. But things aren't as simple as they look. The food choice of consumers has several determinants and is very complex, so we have serious doubts that the inclusion of a nutritional light on the label of foods is the desired effect. We pray that it may have a null effect or even contrary to what is intended. I explain why, with three very simple examples. A recent October 2017 study on the behaviour of Portuguese consumers vis-à-vis food labels, which was presented under the biannual cooperation agreement between the Portuguese Ministry of Health and WHO, mentions three points that I highlight: Portuguese prefer colour labels, yes, because they consider them simpler, but also the more careful and concerned consumers consider that these labels may mislead. There is one example of an investigation in which only 18 % of consumers made the right choice when examining the colour labels. It also says this study that labels have to be simple to be easy to understand, and often this does not happen, especially when the information appears by dose and not by 100g, in which consumer choices are wrong, because they erroneously analyze the label. The same study also reveals that there is a great difference between the assessment that consumers make, what their understanding of the label and the true perception that consumers have of the same label. Finally, of the three labels presented in the study — labels with basic nutritional information and two types with symbols — the labels with symbols gave rise to a more subjective understanding, according to consumers. For all this, the CDS considers that, yes, the possibility of simplification and harmonisation of nutritional information on food labels should be studied, in meeting the measures recommended in the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food, which was created in 2012 by the previous Government, and then further elaborated in the Integrated Strategy for the Promotion of Healthy Food, which was published on 29 December, less than two months ago, now coming the honourable Members. Members, who have already studied the matter, recommend that the Government do in a certain way. in the CDS, we understand that if a working group was created, it should be given some time to this working group to propose concrete measures. A month and a half does not seem to us to be a time-consuming one, but we warn that any measures that are being implemented will not discriminate against Portuguese food products from those of the other Member States and third countries. They will have to be volunteers and analysed at European level. For all this, we believe that these projects address issues that are extremely relevant, but some are redundant, because they recommend that the government do what the government has already proposed to do in this strategy. We note that, with regard to the nutritional traffic light, it is not properly proven that the benefits of the introduction of a traffic light outweigh the harms of a wrong interpretation of this nutritional information, as evidenced by the study I just mentioned and which is available on www.nutriento.pt. We also hope that the Government will not limit itself, in this matter of importance to the health of Portuguese, to setting up working groups that define strategies based on documents that are also strategic which, in turn, give rise to proposals for intervention that do not emerge from the role. We will therefore be paying close attention to what is envisaged in the strategy for promoting healthy food to examine and verify whether in fact anything is done in this regard. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u89	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Projects aimed at clarifying citizens, consumers, always deserve support from our parliamentary group. In fact, there must always be greater transparency in the relationship with these consumers themselves. In this regard, I would like to highlight the fact that the PSD has already, on several occasions, presented a number of projects, more generic or more concrete, in relation to milk and honey, to provide more and better information on this logic of transparency. By drag, we are also discussing a PCP project to provide coverage for a national campaign to promote and enhance the Mediterranean diet that is UNESCO's intangible heritage since 2013. We certainly follow this initiative. But we focus on the issue of nutritional traffic lights. With the transposition of Regulation No 1169 / 2011 in Portugal, since December 2016, the nutritional declaration is mandatory. The label should refer to sugars, carbohydrates, proteins, salt and fats. In fact, this has been a gain for consumers and it is enough to walk in a supermarket or a large chain of hypermarkets to see consumers looking at labels and analyzing that nutritional statement. The fact is that we have still very worrying numbers related to health, whether at the level of obesity — and childhood obesity is still, in fact, very worrying — either at the level of salt consumption, where twice as much as is recommended by the World Health Organization, or even at the level of sugar consumption, is recorded when it is estimated that each Portuguese consumes more than 16 packs of sugar per day. Often, this nutritional statement appears with a very small letter, being difficult to read. It seems to us that the inclusion of colors would make this reading much easier and instinctive. however, this question will pose some problems to us, problems that have already been highlighted here. There are tests, which have already been carried out, to identify some disadvantages with regard to this same nutritional light, since we will catalogue some products as products that are not good because they have many reds. This will create some problems, but there is another that seems central to us and has to do with the European issue. That is to say, we may be discriminating Portuguese products in relation to products that come from outside, and that seems very important to us and we cannot follow it. The measures adopted must be of European scope so that we can effectively also make this contribution to our products, better clarify the citizen, of course, but without creating this discrimination. With regard to this matter, we are advocates of more and better information, to monitor and to allow the nutritional declaration to have better reading. The NAP goes further when it wants a light for cancer products. We cannot follow it up at all, because if we are talking about reliable data for the nutritional traffic light, for example, knowing that a certain product has 10 grams of sugar, it is not so in the carcinogen products. in this case we are not talking about irrefutable data, but some evidence. And we all know that, for many years, we have been confronted with the fact that some products have done a lot of damage to health and, over the past few years, that is no longer so and that they are no longer bad products. We therefore follow the question of the need for more information, more transparency through a study that must be of European scope in order not to create discrimination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u91	To conclude this debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal of the Left Block allows simple, intuitive, standardized reading, and therefore comparable, and also reliable, because it is supported in evidence. We defend transparency and information to support the decision of consumers. It is very surprising, for example, that the CDS-PP and other parties, who discussed transparency in the fuel bill yesterday, when it comes to health, no longer defend it, in the same molds as the Left Block here defended. It also surprises the Socialist Party's position. For example, in the explanatory note by the Ministry of Health for the State Budget for 2017 it was said that one of the priority measures of that Ministry to improve quality of life and health indicators was the nutritional traffic light. But it seems that they have now abandoned this proposal, this measure, which also surprises us. They talked about competition. There is no competition problem, because the Left Block proposal says something very simple: all the products packaged, marketed within the country, regardless of their nationality, have to put the nutritional light and therefore there is no competition problem. Yes, there is an informed health and decision-making issue. We know that the nutritional table that exists today in food is not enough and we want another system that adds information to it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u93	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 558 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the municipal veterinary career by repealing Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ( CDS-PP ), 764 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Purpose to reformulate the principles of the career of municipal veterinarian ( NAP) and 767 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian ( First Amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ) ( PCP ). I would ask that there be greater rigour in the use of the time allocated and I would remind you once again. Members who are holding elections to the Higher Council for Internal Security and the National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products in Room D. Maria. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a bill that sets out the general principles of the career of municipal veterinarian, repealing the legislation currently in force, despite maintaining many of the principles that were underlying it. The municipal veterinarian is a legal figure whose competences date back to the Administrative Code approved in 1940 and, since its origin, the number of municipal veterinarians in each municipality is related to its livestock population and economic activity. The current status of the municipal veterinary doctor determines that he is the veterinary authority concelerated, and can collaborate with the bodies of the Ministry of Agriculture with competences in the veterinary field. As a conciliatory superior technician, the municipal veterinarian depends hierarchically and disciplinaryly on the president of the chamber, but because he is a health authority, he is functionally dependent on the Ministry of Agriculture. The CDS maintains this principle in the draft law which presents and proposes essentially two amendments: the first, the fact that, while all municipalities must have ensured the presence of a municipal veterinarian, allow the management of the number of professionals to be done by the municipalities themselves according to the one enshrined in the initial regime, that is, taking into account their livestock size and economic activity. Thus, a municipality with more needs may have more than a municipal veterinarian, in the same way that smaller or smaller municipalities may associate themselves and be assured by the same veterinarian or even the municipalities of a particular intermunicipal community may propose that one or more municipal veterinarians carry on activity in their territories for an issue of management efficiency. We believe that, in this way, the effective presence of a municipal veterinarian in all municipalities will be better ensured, which currently does not occur. The other main amendment is the fact that the remuneration of municipal veterinary doctors is now fully borne by the municipalities. Currently, municipal veterinary doctors recognised as a veterinary authority concelebrated have 40 % of their salary incurred by the Ministry of Protection. In reality, however, this provision limits the freedom of municipalities to have the number they want from municipal veterinary doctors as a health authority. We believe that, without prejudice to the services provided by the municipal veterinarian as a health authority, this should be supported by the Ministry, this should also be the subject of integration into the financial framework provided for in the decentralization process. We believe that changing the career of a municipal veterinarian is essential at a time when the competences of the authorities are increasing and with greater responsibility. We believe that these two points that we propose to change are important to ensure better health, animal welfare, public health and food security. But this proposal is not closed and we are available to discuss it in the specialty, articulating it with the proposals put forward by the CFP and the NAP, as well as with the proposed amendments which all parliamentary groups want to submit, thus contributing to this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u95	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The growing social awareness of the effective importance of animals implies the urgent need to define unequivocally the lines of action of municipal veterinary doctors, making the field functions correspond to the powers enshrined in the law. Now, the NAP has been expressing great concern about the reality involved by these professionals, as well demonstrated the draft resolution No 315/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which aimed, on the one hand, the appointment of veterinary doctors by DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) hired by municipal chambers but whose veterinary authority has not yet been conferred by the protection and, on the other hand, that it fulfils the obligation by DGAV, as a national veterinary health authority, to be represented in all municipalities. We recall that DGAV has not given possession to municipal veterinarians for about eight years, existing close to a hundred and a half municipalities without a municipal veterinarian. It is obvious the need and importance of the municipal veterinary doctor as a fundamental element in the areas of public health protection and animal protection, it remains in its role as a concelerated veterinary health authority, ensures the cross-sectional and uniform application of national legislation throughout the territory. In view of this legal framework, veterinary doctors are obliged to perform their duties as if they were veterinary health authorities, although they do not have the powers to do so. Thus, this initiative aims to reformulate the principles of the career as a municipal veterinarian by bringing these professionals' skills into line with the functions effectively performed on the ground, including in this wide scope the supervisory powers of trade and catering establishments and beverages, school canteens, meals of elderly homes and other private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ), as well as the monitoring of the application of measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u97	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u98	I shall now conclude, Madam President. We also intend to strengthen the imperative of the existence of at least one municipal veterinarian per municipality, recognised by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings up a proposal to amend the principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian. On the one hand, because there is a need to update the diploma, taking into account the organic changes in the Ministry of Agriculture, with the concentration of competences in the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ; on the other hand, because it is important to clarify the municipal veterinarian as an effective veterinary authority in its geographical area of action, which we propose to be of a conciliatory scope and we also consider the increasing transfer of competence from DGAV to municipalities, such as the case of health inspection in slaughter establishments. Therefore, it is urgent to clarify how municipalities have to ensure these same competences. The reduction in the number of officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and, consequently, of official veterinary services, means that, to date, a municipal veterinary doctor is the only official veterinary doctor who is effectively present and working with the populations. Since the publication of the diploma establishing the principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian, Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May, that the reality of the area of action of the veterinary doctor was the target of great transformation, largely due to the publication of legal regulations, such as the Legal Regime of Access and Exercise of Various Trade Activities, Services and Restoration, the System of Responsible Industry, in its current drafting, the New Scheme of the Exercise of Agricultural Activity and other diplomas relating to pet animals and Community legislation relating to food security. We therefore propose in our initiative a set of skills changes that take account of this same reality. Furthermore, there is currently a large number of municipalities without a municipal veterinarian or with a municipal veterinarian who is not the health authority in question, due to the lack of recognition of the right to pay by DGAV. This reality precludes the establishment of a body of official, universal and effectively present veterinary doctors operating throughout the national territory, which runs counter to the policy of proximity and speed of action intended for official veterinary services, so it is necessary to create conditions for DGAV to recognize the possession of new municipal veterinary doctors. We also propose that the fees charged by the services provided are also revenue from the municipalities themselves. Considering that municipal veterinary doctors exercise competences in collaboration with DGAV, in our opinion we should maintain the current form of participation of their monthly remuneration, which is assumed today by the municipalities and by DGAV. For this reason we disagree with the transfer of charges to the authorities in this area, as proposed by the CDS and the PAN. This amendment may also have other consequences. the limit may lead the Government to abdicate from the only official veterinary doctors to the population. We also disagree with the CDS proposal when it says that municipal veterinary doctors can perform functions in the territory of the intermunicipal community, including saying that in these circumstances the professional home is changed to the municipality headquarters of the intermunicipal community. in our view, the powers and powers of the concel health authority must be confined to the territorial base of each of the councils, in order to avoid inequalities and the emergence of entropies that may undermine the scope of official veterinary services throughout the territory. We also understand that the absence of hierarchical dependence on health, animal protection and food safety decisions by municipal veterinarians should be explicit. in our opinion, it should be clear that decisions should not require higher validation, even considering the nature of the function.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u102	I shall conclude by making a final reference to the NAP proposal when it says that veterinary doctors should follow up complaints of ill-treatment and non-compliance with animal welfare standards for livestock animals. We do not follow these proposals in particular, considering that they are based on criminalizing ill-treatment of animals that we do not follow, and are in disagreement. of our part there is complete availability, of course, so that these matters can be deepened in the field of expertise. We make this contribution to the discussion and we believe that this is a matter that can and should take place in the field of expertise. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u103	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor. I call again for intervention times to be respected. It is very hard for me to interrupt the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft laws submitted are intended to amend the legal framework for the functions and dependencies of municipal veterinarians. Given the duality and sometimes some confusion of its dependence between the municipalities and the state, it is good that the law clarifys its situation and eliminates difficulties and mistakes. The legislative production that has come to light in recent years, the new perception and connection that society has today to animals, as well as the new developments and concern about public health, food safety and health, would already justify changes to the law by themselves. The various proposals present here, although with differences, aim at a geographical scope of action of veterinary doctors, their protection and payment or division of payment of remuneration and expenditure of municipal veterinary doctors. In any case, the expositions of reasons in no case should amplify the real misfortune that represented the process of convergence with European law, in which municipal veterinarians remained empty, without training and without central guidance. Nor can one forget the major revision of the European strategy following BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) for food safety, which began in 2002 and concluded in 2004 with the regulation on official controls to verify compliance with feed and food legislation. Without this framework and without other data you cannot legislate on any public health-oriented veterinary activity. It is therefore necessary for us to ensure that the activity of the municipal veterinarian develops in two different planes. On the one hand, it is up to you, in the conciliation area, to comply with the obligations enshrined in national legislation. Furthermore, it will not make sense to speak in the Council's health authority because all its action is subject to a legislative framework which must be applied uniformly throughout the territory under the direct coordination of the competent authority, DGAV and, more importantly, the Ministry of Agriculture. The terms of this performance should be clearly defined between the municipality and the competent authority, who will be responsible for ensuring the continuing training and professional updating of veterinary physicians, ensuring consistency and efficiency in performance. It is also necessary to eliminate noise introduced in missions that are unequivocally vertical, where coordinators and executioners should be directly linked, without distortions created by regional, intermunicipal or municipal structures. On the other hand, there is, in fact, another level, the municipality, for the exercise of veterinarian, that of veterinary authority, rather than health authority, because at present the field of intervention is much broader than only health issues. We are thinking, for example, of solving the multiple issues in which the scientific discipline of veterinarians comes to the service of the local community in accordance with their political will. These are domains ranging from licensing to educational and educational actions, which has to do with the definition and promotion of a policy for livestock, with great impact on the economy, demographics and even fire prevention. These two plans—two! — for the activity of the municipal veterinarian must be perfectly clear, and this clarity should be well reflected in the law. in this sense, the different proposals present interesting aspects and can be improved in the field of specialty, for which, moreover, it has now been ensured the availability of the proposing parties. And we, Block Left, will be here to contribute to this work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u105	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Ana Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The structure of the career as a municipal veterinarian, as well as its regulations, is defined by Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May. This diploma confers on the municipal veterinarian a number of functions within the various aspects of medical and veterinary sciences, including in the area of animal health and welfare, public veterinary health, hygiene and food safety throughout the food chain of animal origin. The municipal veterinarian is the veterinary health authority with powers conferred on itself and not transferable by the Directorate-General for Veterinary and Food ( DGAV) as a national veterinary authority. According to current legislation, the municipal veterinarian depends, hierarchically and disciplinaryly, on the president of the municipality of the respective area of activity and functionally articulates with the Ministry of Agriculture through DGAV.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u107	Madam Member, I apologize to you for interrupting, but even the Bureau can't hear you, and I doubt that the ladies. Members who are sitting in the Chamber are also able to do so. The gentlemen. Members who have no interest in hearing the speech may leave the Chamber. [[Pause.]] That's much better. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mrs. Deputy, for interrupting. It may continue its intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u108	With the restructuring of the veterinary services of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has reduced the number of veterinarians serving the populations, the entry into force of the recent legislation under the regulation of errant animals, as well as the compliance with the Community guidelines on food safety, leads to the need to adapt the principles of the municipal veterinary career to a new reality. This appropriation is intended to cover the costs incurred by the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the European Union. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party considers that the initiatives presented today are in part compatible with the objectives set out in the proposal for law No 62/ XIII on decentralization, specifically in the sectoral development decrees, but fall short of the real needs, either in the amplitude of the proposed powers, since it does not promote the transfer of tasks from the central administration to the municipalities and the subsequent extension of their functions, or because they maintain functional dependence with the State, which puts the powers inherent in the hierarchical relationship of the municipality at stake. We believe that the solutions presented should be worked out in the decentralization of competence package, thus safeguarding more adequate responses to the needs identified in their respective municipal territories and without compromising the effectiveness of the measures provided for in future sectoral diplomas for the achievement of their objectives with the reality of the sector. however, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is open, if that is the understanding of Parliament, so that, in the field of specialty, amendments can be introduced that can meet the reality and relevance of the action of municipal veterinarians. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u109	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives under consideration allow for updating the provisions and adapting the legal regime of municipal veterinary doctors, repealing Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May. in this sense, initiatives are timely, make sense and the PSD will make its contribution at the right time to improve them, because they are partly complementary but do not refer to some fundamental aspects, particularly with regard to the process of decentralization. These initiatives are timely and make sense to update this legal regime, which has not been updated for 20 years, also taking into account the publication of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August regarding the collection of animals and respect and dignity for their life and well-being. This update makes sense taking into account the process of decentralization, an ongoing process and which is afraid to be in progress because the government does not move forward with the legislation it needs to move forward, perhaps trying to make time to reach an agreement with its coalition partners. It is management at its best, that is to say, governing not ruling! The update also makes sense considering that the existence of a veterinary authority is relevant and the need for flexibility, in relation to municipalities, to constitute an intermunicipal health authority. In addition, it makes sense because many municipalities do not have a veterinary physician and many do not have but are not recognized by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, in fact, as recently as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities came to warn and claim, denouncing that this situation is not regularized. Regarding remuneration, we are not in favour of what the CDS-PP says. We believe that because the government is not paying the veterinary doctor to the authorities, it should not take that responsibility and throw it to the municipal chambers. In other words, it is not for the government to be a bad payer that others have to replace it. Don't! the Government must bear that same responsibility. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u111	We are already used to the fact that the government does not pay and that is an example of this is the case of the millions of health and the millions of education announced by the government and that there is no realisation. Well, he's a political chauffeur! The government is a political chauffeur who does not pay in time and time,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u112	...and announces millions that then do not pay. He's a political chauffeur! [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u113	And the fact that being a political chauffeur does not mean that the chambers have to have that cost, that weight, replacing this political chauffeur, which is the government. Very strange the Left Block and the PCP did not require the government in its interventions to pay the municipalities what is missing. They spoke, spoke, spoke and did not demand what was essential, which is the government to comply with the law. And the government's not a law-abiding, it's an outlaw! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u114	The government is an outlaw because it doesn't pay, doesn't comply with the law! [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u115	And the honourable Member is out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u116	So, I really admire the Left Block and the PCP do not require the government to stay within the law. And, therefore, it is an outlaw in this sense. [[PSD applause.]] Well, besides,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u117	Sir, I thought you were done... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u118	I shall now conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u119	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u120	Once again, what we were going to see was the government taking the picture and the others paying for it. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u121	Mrs. Members, the discussion of the projects of lein.os 558 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus concluded. ( a ), 764 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 767 / XIII ( 3. ( a). We will continue with the sixth, and last, point of the agenda, which consists of discussion of the projects of lein.o 374 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support ( second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July ) ( PCP ) and 772 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July, which establishes the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support, as well as the requirement to review the law within one year ( CDS-PP ), in general, together with draft resolution No 1296 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update 5 % of the fees of forensic professionals for services provided under legal protection ( NAP ). To present the PCP bill, Mr.António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason for being this PCP bill is very easily explained. The fees of lawyers who provide services in the framework of judicial support, which are commonly known as informal defenders, are set out in Law No 34 / 2004, which determines that the remuneration due to these lawyers is established by the Ministry of Finance and Justice. It appears that the current portfolio indexed these remunerations to the unit of the procedural account set out in the Code of Judicial Costs ; therefore, it establishes as a reference criterion a quarter of the unit of the procedural account. However, for the purposes of judicial costs, the unit of accounts is in turn indexed to the indexer of social support ( IAS ). Therefore, having in principle increased social support indexing, this would indicate, according to the logic of the respective portfolio, an increase in legal costs, which in turn would imply an increase in fees due to lawyers. It happens that in the State Budgets for 2017 and 2018, on a proposal from the PCP, which was approved, the value of the legal costs was disindicated from the indexer of social support. In other words, the defrosting of the value of the IAS ceased to entail an increase in the legal costs; the value of the legal costs was frozen. Well, this had a collateral damage, and this collateral damage was also to have the fees frozen due to lawyers providing services in the context of legal aid. And we do not want this and, as we do not want, we understand that we need to set aside the value of these fees for judicial costs, until the law assumes that. That is to say, this was an option taken at the door, it is not an option that derives from the law. Therefore, what we propose is that the government start fixing, annually, what are the values to be paid to lawyers by the services provided in the framework of judicial support. Until, of course, it allows us to take into account criteria of justice which will not otherwise be considered. It happens that the CDS, as there is no rule without exception, decided to join the good ones and also presented a project, which we will vote for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor now to present the CDS-PP bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is something we expect some consensus on. In fact, as Mr António Filipe has said, this is the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of judicial support. There is indeed a distortion, which has been introduced, but there is more than that. First of all, this is a regime that has not been updated for 15 years and then, in fact, there has been this side effect, which Mr.António Filipe spoke of, which was introduced by the 2017 State Budgets and also by 2018, an effect which was obviously not desired in this issue. What has happened was that the State budget disindicated from the value of the process unit the indexing of social support, thus preventing, and very well, the increase in procedural costs, already very high. But this has had a perverse effect on lawyers' fees that provide legal support, because the lawyer's fee that provides legal support is also indexed to the indexer of social support, and therefore no longer updated, for that reason. This effect, which was not desired, remained, and this is exactly what we want to stop. And we intend to lock up how? By updating these fees here, through the inflation rate forecast for each year, i.e. the inflation rate forecast for the year after the year to which it relates. But, moreover, we propose something else that seems absolutely essential. The justice pact has been widely disseminated and this is a matter in which we, and we have already said so, have several proposals to make. Moreover, in the past, we have also made some proposals in this area, and one of them has to do with precisely the entire system of access to law, which effectively lacks a wide review. in this question of access to law, the CDS has for a year already had a draft resolution in this regard, asking, precisely, to review the procedural costs and also revised, in this regard, the fees of lawyers. We will not cease to insist on this, but we ask here, in this bill, not only to update what he was talking about but also, within one year, to review this law, precisely with the aim of revising the entire system of access to law and also the fees paid to lawyers, not only in this field. This is obviously an intricate matter that has high costs, and we are aware of it, and therefore we also know that we cannot do everything running and very quickly, because sometimes great is the enemy of the good. We therefore ask that, within one year, this be a reality with which the Portuguese can count, i.e., with a regime of access to the right that is fairer and easier for all, in which people are properly protected, in a function that is essential of the State, which is to guarantee justice, and in which the corresponding services are also effective and fairer, which is not ultimately the case. That's all we're proposing, that's all we're asking you to approve. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u125	Mr André Silva has the floor to present the draft resolution of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The system of access to law and to courts with regard to the remuneration of forensic professionals for the services provided under legal protection and the reimbursement of their expenses shall refer to the joint portfolio of Finance and Justice Ministers of 2004. Consequently, through the portal referred to above, a single and minor change has occurred in 2009, with the approval of the fees table of lawyers, trainees and applicants for the services they provide within the framework of legal protection. We understand that, not being the updated table for several years, the constant values of this table are far from those that would be reasonable, making it essential to ensure that professionals who provide services in the field of legal protection receive fair and fair remuneration, considering the relevance of the functions they perform. This need stems from the recognized essentiality of the role these professionals play in society, ensuring access to justice to those who have less resources. It was this need that supported the proposal submitted by the NAP, at the headquarters of State Budget for the year 2018, plunged without votes in favour, which provided for the update by 5 % of the values contained in the table concerning the remuneration of these professionals. We have now again been able to defend the 5 % update of the values contained in the table on the remuneration of lawyers, trainees and applicants for the services they provide under legal protection, thus ensuring a small sign of recognition of the relevance of the functions performed by the professionals concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u127	We are now continuing with Mr José Manuel Pureza. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the CFP brings to our debate today, which has been associated with initiatives of the CDS and the NAP, which provides for the updating of the remuneration values of informal lawyers, deserves the agreement of the Left Block. Our favourable vote is the recognition that this is a way of bringing justice to lawyers who take the patronage of those who resort to access to law and who thus allow all Portuguese to have access to justice, giving material realization to this fundamental right. But the low wages and the lack of legal rights are not, by any means, an exclusive of the informal defenders, it is increasingly a reality of the vast majority of lawyers. Indeed, the low wages of the majority of Portuguese lawyers, who may even get ordered zero, their social disprotection system, which part of a presumption of income that harms those who gain the least and benefits those who receive the most, and the false green receipts, a plague that goes through the arteries of all Portuguese work, are just some of the most serious problems that are urgently solved. These are therefore varied and complex problems. They are varied because they range from precariousness to the absence of the most elementary rights of social protection, which, including, prompted an unpublished and elevated manifestation on 25 January last. They are also complex problems because they require a deep debate on structural problems in this sector which, although they have existed for years, only now begin to see the light of the day. It was the unsustainability of this situation that broke the silence that covered Portuguese counseling and now it is time to take forward the problems we have in front of us in order to arrive at just solutions. Taking this issue as one of the priorities for this year 2018, the Left Block will promote, on 22 February, a public debate, here in the Assembly of the Republic, on the precariousness of advocacy and the urgent need to combat. It is urgent to bring justice to this sector and to give voice to thousands of lawyers who live hostages to the prejudice that we are facing a totally rich and privileged class. to those who in this matter, as in others, prepare to bring the mantra of the market and the inherent natural selection as panacea for all evils, we respond with the evidence that, also in counsel, such a recipe only generated precariousness, exploitation and low wages. The projects under discussion today bring some justice to the Portuguese lawyers and we will therefore vote in favour, but here we will be to do all the way beyond these projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u129	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general principle of Article 20. paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by ensuring access to the courts to all, and justice cannot be denied due to lack of economic means, enshrines what might be called « democratisation of justice ». Thus, the XXI Constitutional Government Programme elects, as a general priority, the improvement of the quality of the public service of justice, as well as the increase of the quality of access to the judicial support system, in order to provide a better service to those who need it. in this sense, it was constituted by the Office of the Minister of Justice a working group that aims, inter alia, to carry out the study and analysis of the functioning of the current system of access to law and to the courts, with regard to the quality and effectiveness of the services provided, as well as the analysis of compensations due to forensic professionals in the field of legal protection, proposing adjustments that appear useful, with a view to ensuring more justice, efficiency and speed, in particular with regard to the regulation of the phased payment and the system of confirmation of claims for legal aid. The system of access to law and to courts, as regulated by Law No 34 / 2004, was amended by Law No 47 / 2007, where several articles of that law were amended, including Article 36. the, which came to bring to bear the determination of the charges arising from the granting of legal aid. As has already been explained here, Article 5. the regulation of judicial costs has defined that the unit of procedural account is indexed to the indexer of social support, and should be updated according to this. however, this update was suspended, between 2009 and 2016, which resulted in a non-update, from that date, of the fees of lawyers providing legal assistance. The State Budget for 2017 determined precisely the end of this suspension, with Portaria No. 4 / 2017 updated, and well, the value of the IAS. However, so that this update would not have an impact on the increase in procedural costs, it was proposed that the value of the unit of account should be disindicated from the value of the IAS, which also led to the freezing of legal aid fees. The initiatives of the CDS and the CFP, today under discussion, have as much as you would like, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[Pause.]] Madam President, I'm sorry, but I have to wait until there's less noise in the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u131	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Deputy. I was hesitated to make this call for the third or fourth time. Mrs. Members, in respect of this case, by Mrs Susana Amador, but also by the other Members. Members who will be in the use of the floor, I ask, once again, to remain silent in the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said, the initiatives of the CDS and the CFP, today under discussion, have as their aim the establishment of a legal mechanism that allows the updating of the fees of lawyers serving in the framework of judicial support, depending on the evolution of inflation, also proposing the NAP, as part of the draft resolution, a 5 % update. The PS Parliamentary Group considers this to be of the utmost importance, and the conclusions of the working group we have already referred to are ahead of time. It should be pointed out that these issues are also dealt with in the framework of the Justice Pact and have been required by this parliamentary group to be heard within 1. the Commission, the parties to the Agreements on the Justice System, since it is important to open at parliamentary level an area of hearing, dialogue and commitment which, involving the most relevant entities in the sector and the authors of the document, deepens the public reflection on the proposed measures and, subsequently, consistently leverages the initiatives which are considered relevant and necessary. In conclusion, there is complete availability of this parliamentary group for a broad spectrum analysis, with regard to the institute of legal support and access to law, which also includes the necessary adjustments to the fees of legal services provided in the context of judicial support, because indissociable from the overall right to legal protection, a vital and essential element underlying the rule of law itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u133	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I greet her for her extra effort to have had to speak so loudly. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult to draw a reason for proposing a remuneration update, because that is really what it is all about, when it has not happened for more than eight years, in particular in a period when the idea of some extent was created, that it is possible to turn to everyone, to all classes and to all increases. But what I think is imperative is that we refuse the idea of alms or assistanceism. I don't know if you guys are. Members have the notion — that, for example, in sponsoring a criminal case with a singular judge, the lawyer will win €184 for his intervention and, in a declarative action of up to €25 000, earn €430 for his intervention. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] by the proposal that is made, either by the CDS or by the PCP, what will happen— given the inflation indexation and that inflation in the last eight years had an average increase of 1, 3 — is that there will be an increase of 1 €, in the singular crime process, and of 4, 30 €, in a declarative action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u135	Don't! Where is this inflation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u136	Well, that's manifestly little. Looks like something, but it's almost nothing. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that the way goes through a wider review of the entire institute of legal aid and even the review of the current table, indexing the fees for quality, efficiency and hours spent by lawyers in the services they provide. It is according to these criteria that justice and equity criteria are also established. We know that there are employers and defenders who miss and do too much. But there is also the opposite, there are lawyers and employers who receive too much and they miss, just do little and get to a court and ask for justice. The question goes through another logic, another methodology. It makes no sense that, in Portugal, as has been followed in other European countries, for example, there is no difference between proceedings with a trial session or with 10 trial sessions, there is no difference between cases in which there are various incidents and cases in which there is no incident, and there is no difference between complex processes and simple processes. What we understand is that the projects in question should be discussed in a more holistic, more comprehensive, broader review of this whole institute. And the PSD will surely be available to contribute to this system's improvement. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u137	Mr António Filipe has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the reasonable consensus that has been created in this House on this issue. And Mr Peixoto, now right in much of what he says, has come to complicate what is simpler at this stage. In other words, the fundamental issue here is to defuse the remuneration for lawyers who provide services in the context of access to law. There is a lot to be reviewed on judicial costs and also on remuneration for services provided in the field of access to law, but we must also take into account that there is a constitutional provision which is the labour law and that there is a budget that is in force. That is why the proposal we make points out precisely so that the government, by way of port, can defuse these wages. Now inflation is a criterion, but it is not the only one. And, in our draft law, what we propose is that the Government adopt criteria of justice and reasonableness, but that it obviously bear in mind that freezing is that it is not possible to maintain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u139	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. We therefore hope that, of course, in this debate, the hearings that should be held should be held, but that lawyers are indeed not the ones who are affected by the decision, which is a fair decision, to disindicate the judicial costs of the IAS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u141	We reached the end of the joint debate of the projects of lein.o 374 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), of the PCP, and 772 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the CDS-PP, in general, and draft resolution No 1296 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PAN). Mrs. Members, I would like to remind you that the elections for members of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products will continue to take place for another 15 minutes after the end of this plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 206 presences, to which two are added, those of the Members. Members of BE Carlos Matias and Mariana Mortágua, performing 208 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 478/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Esmond Bradley-Martin, a reference in the protection of wildlife and in the fight against ivory trafficking presented by the NAP and signed by PS Members. To read the vote, Mr. Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u142	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Esmond Bradley-Martin died on February 4th, the victim of murder, raising the suspicion if he had been in the hands of those who held the power against whom he had been fighting for so long. Geographer dedicated his life to the conservation of nature, being considered a global reference in this matter and was one of the most active researchers involved in the subject of illegal hunting of wild animals and, more specifically, in the illegal trafficking of ivory and rhinoceros horns. Before its first reports, little was known about the quantities of horns and caught in circulation in black markets. Its investigation made it possible to know about the journey of prey and made a decisive contribution to China's ban on domestic trade in rhino horn in the 1990s and, more recently, made all the ivory trade illegal. It was also Esmond who revealed for the first time, in the 1970s, the estimated number of horns and arrests that for those years were, free and violently removed from the bodies of African elephants and rhinoceros, especially in Kenya, where he moved in that decade, but also, since then, in Angola, Mozambique, Nigeria, Sudan and Egypt. According to Simon Denyer, Washington Post journalist, referring to Esmond, ‘ threw a rescue rope at the African elephants and made a new hope rise in the battle to end the poaching of tens of thousands of animals every year because of the prey. After his death, this hope was shaken. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, is associated with environmental organizations and the scientific community in the tribute and collective recognition of the life and work of Esmond Bradley-Martin, lamenting his death and enormous loss for all of us. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u143	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 479/ XIII ( 3 ) shall follow. a ) — In spite of the death of Santiago Ebbe Ela and the great deterioration of the human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea, presented by BE and subscribed by PS and PAN Members. To proceed with the reading of the vote, Mr Moses Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u144	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The troupe of the Government of Equatorial Guinea to human rights have been denounced by various international organizations and have already deserved the repudiation of the Assembly of the Republic. However, recent events cannot be answered. The growing violence had the most brutal point in the death of Santiago Ebbe Ela, militant of the opposition party Citizens for Innovation, in a Malabo squad, capital of Equatorial Guinea. He refers to Andres Esono Ondo, Secretary-General of the opposition party Convergence to Social Democracy in Equatorial Guinea, which Ebbe Ela died due to acts of torture, and that there are photographs that prove it. In addition to the detention of hundreds of militants from opposition parties, the regime has carried out arrests for offences of opinion. Ramón Esono Ebalé's prison is an example of this. Ebalé, an artist and cartoonist, was arrested because of his work Obi's nightmare, which depicts a character inspired by President Obiang. This artist has been arrested for about five months in one of the most dangerous and harsh prisons in the world, recognized by episodes of torture, rapes, beatings and deaths. Amnesty International describes his entry into this prison as ‘ a slow and prolonged death sentence. Our solidarity must also go to Ebalé and those in the same situation. in the context of its presence in the Lusophone community, and in what is intended of CPLP members, Equatorial Guinea cannot compromise with the rule of law and the rule of law, nor disregard basic principles of freedom and protection of human rights. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Santiago Ebbe Ela, tortured and murdered by the regime of Teodoro Obiang, and condemns the human rights abuses and arbitrary arrests carried out by the Government of Equatorial Guinea. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this vote, which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 480/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Of regret and solidarity for the earthquake this week in Taiwan, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS and PAN Members, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u146	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « According to everyone's knowledge, there occurred last Tuesday, February 6, a violent earthquake that hit Taiwan. This earthquake reached magnitude 6, 4 on the Richter scale and caused serious material damage in these, including the ruin of several buildings and a hotel in the city of Hualin, where the presence of tourists is especially significant. More serious, this earthquake has caused more than 250 injuries from various nationalities and has affected 7 citizens, and these numbers still do not portray the full extent of the damage and loss of life at stake. These events bring to mind the fatal events that have victimized people and goods in Portugal and that have motivated the support and solidarity of the authorities of Taiwan with the affected authorities and populations. Faced with this catastrophe, the Portuguese Parliament presents to the families and victims felt condolences and lends solidarity to the people of Taiwan at this time of mourning and destruction. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 476 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulation by the Portuguese athletes Manuel Machado and Filipa Elvas, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS, PAN and PSD Members, that Secretary António Carlos Monteiro will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Portuguese amateur athletes Manuel Machado and Filipia Elvas won last week in Antarctica the White Continent races 50 km and White Continent Marathon, respectively. Although both are very long-lasting, under very difficult climate conditions, Manuel Machado and Filipa Elvas have won, proving their capacity among 61 athletes from 15 countries. For Manuel Machado, this was the seventh victory in ultramaratones, on several continents, highlighting the Arctic Circle, the Sacred Valley of Incas and the 111 km of Ultra do Saará, missing only one victory in the Ocean to reach full. Filipa Elvas was the only woman in 2013 to complete the 45 km of the Great Wall Marathon of China, one of the most difficult athletic tests in the world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the Portuguese Manuel Machado and Filipa Elvas, recognizing the larger dimension of their work ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u149	I inform you that is present in the galleries the athlete Manuel Machado, that we greet. Mrs. Members, let us vote No 476 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It will now be read by Secretary Idália Serra, vote No 477 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From the day of zero tolerance to female genital mutilation — 6 February, presented by PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The United Nations declared February 6th day from zero tolerance to female genital mutilation (MGF). This scourge affects 200 million women, girls and girls worldwide and, if nothing is done by 2030, it will be more than 15 million. This harmful practice is performed in more than 50 countries, estimated that in Portugal there are about 6000 women mutilated, which has dramatic results on the sexual and reproductive health of victims, but also on the free development and dignity of the human person. The MGF is attentive to the health of women and girls and has in its origin ancestral cultural practices that cannot be understood as justification for the violation of human rights. Portugal has since 2007 plans of action to combat FGM in the field of health and education, as well as in support of non-governmental organizations and international cooperation, in particular with the United Nations Population Fund and the Committee against Harmful Practices for Women and Children of Guinea-Bissau. The Portuguese Parliament, in the inter-parliamentary countries where it participates and in effective action, must continue to affirm the universality and respect for the human rights of women, girls and girls in accordance with the international conventions ratified by Portugal, in particular the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Beijing Convention and other action plans resulting from the International Conference on Population and Development. The Portuguese Parliament has had an active voice against MGF either through the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development and the Sub-Commission on Equality and Non-Discrimination, either through legislative initiatives, with emphasis on the empowerment in 2015 of crime in the Criminal Code following the Istanbul Convention. This year, the motto of zero tolerance day is ‘ The end of the FGM is a political decision: zero tolerance of regional and sub-regional institutions. ’ Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reaffirms its firm commitment to contribute to the fight against this harmful practice and to the fulfilment of the United Nations Agenda 2030, with a view to eradicating female genital mutilation. Members of the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development endorse this vote."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 477/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1312 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a general competition for teachers in 2018 and the modification of the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary teaching staff ( PCP ) for which the CDS-PP calls for a separate vote in point 2. We shall therefore begin by voting on point 2. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall vote on points 1 and 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u153	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u154	To inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver to the Bureau a vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1243 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Final recruitment of health professionals placed under the influenza contingency plan, activated between 1 November 2017 and 31 March 2018 ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1246 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of a tender for the hiring of newly-specialist doctors up to 30 days after the conclusion of the medical internment ( BE). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific training ( CFP ) with use. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Bill No. 766 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) down to 9. the Commission. With regard to draft resolution No 1300 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( PCP ), the CDS requested the breakdown of the vote in paragraph 1. So let us first vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 2 and 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] The general vote of Bill No 737 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Increases the tax transparency of fuels through more detailed information to consumers ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 760 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the reporting duty of the marketer to the energy consumer ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Bill No. 760 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 765 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It makes the environmental impact of fuels more transparent by means of more detailed information to consumers ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1290 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen information given to consumers in invoices relating to the marketing of fuels ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with the abstentions of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 237 / 2007 of 19 June which transposes Directive 2002 / 15 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2007 on the organisation of working time of persons engaged in mobile road transport activities ( CFP ) is to be transposed into the domestic legal order. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote together on three requests submitted by the Greens, the CDS-PP and the BE respectively, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without a 60-day vote of draft resolutions Nos 912 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by environmental education as a valued component of public school ( The Greens ), 1295 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the Eco-School Programme ( CDS-PP ) and 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of environmental education in the curricula of basic and secondary education ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 673 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Portuguese sound, music and radio ( PSD ) heritage. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1302 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation and installation of a national sound file ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1306 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures leading to the creation of the national sound archive ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1309 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and promote sound heritage through the creation of a national sound archive ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1311/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection of sound documents that are part of Portuguese cultural heritage by creating a national sound archive ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 768 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the national sound archive ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u157	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u158	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall submit to the Bureau a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u160	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to indicate that the PSD bank will issue a statement of vote to the Bureau on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u161	Of course, it's recorded. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u162	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to announce a statement of vote in the Bureau by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u163	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 744 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The general vote on Bill No 745 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the dimension of the Vital Testament to the planning of old age beyond the disease situation ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the vote, in general draft law No 746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating penalties and criminalizing a set of conducts that violate the rights of the elderly ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1272 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider the need for and the possibility to create an existing structure or to provide an existing capacity, resources and competence that can give an integrated and cross-cutting response to people at risk or vulnerability, in particular with regard to the promotion and protection of the rights of older persons ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1273 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the proposed revision of the Civil Code ( CDS-PP ) to the Assembly of the Republic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will vote on the draft resolution, action plan and implementation of the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging 2017 - 2025 ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the Member of the PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1277 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the status of the informal caregiver until the end of the first half of 2018 ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The general vote on Bill No 749 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by criminalizing new conduct against particularly vulnerable persons ( NAPs ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PSD, asking for a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein.o 755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-ninth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply and the adequacy of a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD ) and 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the eighth amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the organs of the local authorities, the seventh amendment to the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, adopted by Act No. 15 -A / 98 of 3 April, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by the Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, according to the electoral incapacity active to the new civil disability regime ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 750 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a special consumer protection scheme for the protection of elderly persons (NAPs). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1305/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen monitoring of elderly households to ensure the dignity of users ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1308/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the promotion of rights aging ( CFP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1098 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the nutritional light in the food packaged ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, in favour of BE, The Greens, the NAP and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1297 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the system of nutritional traffic lights and carcinogenic traffic lights in the mandatory nutritional declaration contained in the food packaged ( NAP). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of BE and PAN were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1298/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national campaign for promoting and valuing the Mediterranean diet ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1310/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — On the labelling of food (The Greens). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall then vote in general on Bill No. 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the municipal veterinary career by repealing Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Bill No. 558 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) down to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 764 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Purpose to reformulate the principles of the career of municipal veterinarian ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, the PS, the BE and the CFP.]] Bill No. 764 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) down to 7. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 767 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] The bill also drops to 7. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 374/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support ( second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Bill No. 374 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) down to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 772 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July, with respect to the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support, as well as the requirement to review the law within a year ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Bill No. 772 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) down to 1. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1296 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update 5 % of the fees of forensic professionals for services provided under legal protection ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the EB and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1240 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to ensure that the accompanying pregnant women in the interlocutory displacements of the Azores have the absences to work justified in labour law ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u164	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u165	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u166	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that Mr. Carlos César, Mr. Lara Martinho and Mr. João Castro will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u167	All right. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1041 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Oleiros, Vila de Rei, Vila Velha de Rhodão, Castelo Branco and Proença-a-Nova in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), with the title and text being replaced by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now vote together seven requests, submitted by the respective authors of the legislative initiatives, asking for the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of draft resolutions Nos 917 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation and opposition to the mining exploitation of Argemela ( The Greens ), 999 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prevent the exploitation of mineral deposits in Argemela ( PAN ), 1289 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the presentation of the missing elements for assessment of a possible mining operation in the Argemela greenhouse by the local authorities and populations involved, and assumes and corroborates the position of the entities involved in the decision to be delivered ( PSD ), 1293 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not conclude a contract for the granting of mining operations in Argemela ( BE ), 1294 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by assessing environmental risks and the impact on economic activities resulting from the possible mining concession in Argemela, in the district of Castelo Branco ( PCP ), 1307 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Preservation of the Argemella greenhouse ( PS ) and 1314 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the necessary steps to protect and preserve Argemel's greenhouse by involving local populations and authorities ( CDS-PP ) on this mission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the drafts of lein. 172 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January) ( PAN ), 622 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the creation of areas of permit to animals in commercial establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ) ( BE) and 623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It enables animals to stay in commercial establishments under specific conditions by amending Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein. 667 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code, qualifying the crime of murder committed in connection with a dating relationship ( PSD ), 688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes murder in the context of dating relationship in standard examples concerning the crime of qualifying homicide ( NAP), 689 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualification of the murder crime committed in connection with a dating relationship ( forty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code ) ( CDS-PP ), 690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making the murder in context of violence in qualified homicide ( BE), 691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making public crime the aggressions to journalists in the performance of their duties or because of them ( BE) and 692 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment is made to the Criminal Code, strengthening the legal-penal protection of journalists in the exercise of their functions ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will also take note of the entry into the Bureau of a legislative initiative. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u168	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1317 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency plan for the National Health Service ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-09.u169	Mrs. Members, I recall that, for another quarter of an hour, up to 1 p.m. and 20 minutes, the polls are open for the election of members to the Higher Council for Internal Security and the National Council for Assisted Medicinal Treatment. We have thus come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting shall take place on Wednesday 14 February, having as its agenda the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 6 minutes.]]
