ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the authority that determine the opening of the galleries. Mrs. Members, as you know, our agenda consists of a single point, the debate, by means of the PS, on « modernising the economy through innovation and science ». To open this debate, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015 we found a country to be different from Europe. It did not differ only in that year, since 2000, i.e. it has been growing for almost two decades less than European partners, basically impoverishing each year. On average, the European Union increased in that period by 2, 9 % and Portugal by 1 %. Worse than we, only two countries, Italy and Greece, had an average growth below 2 %. This reality was accompanied by another one which marked the Portuguese economy in that period: on the one hand, the fall in investment contribution to GDP from 28 % to 15 %, at the cost of the civil construction crisis, and on the other, the increase in export contribution to economic growth, a duplication of this impact, made with the commitment and resilience of Portuguese companies and entrepreneurs, who fought against the scarcity of our market, gained scale, becoming more competitive and thus contributing decisively to increase the market share of our exports. If it is true that Portugal was the champion in the economic divergence with regard to Europe, it should also be said that this cycle was reversed in 2017, with robust economic growth, the highest of the century and above the European Union average, having also expressly decreased the difference in the growth rate compared to those countries that have always grown more than Portugal. These results are accompanied by recalls in job creation, while allowing the creation of conditions for the return of young people who have left the country, thus improving the potential GDP. It is true that challenges persist. There is no doubt that the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy requires public policies capable of introducing productivity gains. But they do not ask us to achieve productivity results at the cost of unemployment. We know the statistics for the period 2011 - 2015, and possible productivity increases are the product of increasing unemployment, which has grown at a pace greater than economic growth. We reject this path, and should not serve as a flag for those who defend the well-being of Portugal and the Portuguese. Mr President, the structural change in the economy that the PS government is building has no secrets and much less happens by chance. It all started with the implementation of a better distribution of income, not only with the return of what had been withdrawn to Portuguese but also with improvements in the minimum wage, with correct steps in fiscal stability and in the control of public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this context that this debate arises, at a time when the government sets out new plans for the country, putting on the ground a strategy that will ensure Portugal a decade of convergence with the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that there are no miracles and that in order to get sized challenges, Portugal needs to grow, on average, more than the rest of Europe. To ensure this desire, it is important to mobilize Portugal around the essential: bet on competitiveness factors to improve productivity and confirm economic growth. This is where innovation comes in, one of the most powerful factors of competitiveness, capable of leveraging exports, internationalizing our economy and accelerating economic growth. There are, therefore, areas where the government is already working to achieve productivity gains and to ensure more value to our exports. I wanted to remember that, despite everything, we didn't start anything new. in practice, we arranged and demos body, stimulate and encourage the science and technology system in Portugal. What we are doing is putting the knowledge produced by the country out, by the best qualified generation ever in Portugal, at the market, at the reach of companies. What we are doing is creating interfaces to help translate academic language into business language, ensuring the necessary technology transfer. What we are doing is taking advantage of the knowledge produced to create innovation and thus produce wealth and jobs. What we are doing is fighting one of Europe's classic innovation paradoxes, where, despite investment in research and development, they do not always translate into innovation and thus into economic results. What we are doing is making the most of the investments in education, ensuring a good link between the public sector and the private sector and between universities, technological centres and companies. In Portugal, much of the research and development originates in the public sector. It is critical to ensure that this knowledge reaches the market, as it becomes essential to ensure that universities and public laboratories can interact without obstacles with companies in order to generate new products and new processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Commission recently reminded the country that the most innovative companies export six times more, have eight times more profits, have 50 % above average productivity gains, create four times more jobs and pay 60 % higher wages. This is the ecosystem we are creating in Portugal. To this end, we need to continue the production of knowledge and, above all, to create the networks and mechanisms of collaboration appropriate to put entrepreneurs and researchers to work together and produce with more added value, to ensure more export-based growth and with more productivity. That is why the Government of the Socialist Party has been implementing a number of programmes with already very visible results. There are some of these initiatives that deserve attention because of the impact they have on creating an increasingly innovative and knowledge-based economy. The Interface program is the main engine of structural change and aims to explore the scientific and technological capacity generated in recent years in Portugal and to value highly qualified human resources. This is not about reliable conversation, ladies and gentlemen. There are, in fact, ongoing commitments and resources available for this huge challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] 28 interface centres, which already serve 17 000 customers and charge 128 million euros of technological services to companies, have already been recognized by the government in this planning process. These interfaces are technological centers, are public research and development laboratories or university laboratories. in practice, they are knowledge centres that help companies innovate and respond to the challenges of the competitiveness of our economic fabric. By 2022, more than EUR 1400 million will be channelled to this programme in all its aspects. It is funding that aims to contribute, among other things, to empower interface organizations and improve knowledge flows. In addition, on the basis of the instruments associated with the programme — from research and development projects in co-promotion, research and development valleys, mobilising programmes, Industry 4.0, demonstration projects in co-promotion, among others — nearly 3000 applications have already been submitted for an already approved investment of EUR 590 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the way to the future of Portugal. Ensuring a decade of convergence requires structural reform in our economy. There is no consequent reform without knowledge and it is devastating to know without innovation, therefore, without visible results in economic growth and job creation. The reform that the economy of Portugal needs is not based on low wages, at the bottom, on a vertigo of impoverishment that destroys the country's capacity and expels its own inhabitants. The reform we need is what we are doing: transforming Portugal through knowledge, bringing knowledge and research and development to companies and helping to internationalize our economy, adding value and wealth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the same time that we do this we give the young people who qualified themselves as never had happened to participate actively in this paradigm change, encouraged by fair wages and, above all, compatible with the value they deliver to Portugal. The network that we are building and densifying, which is born in knowledge, passes through innovation and reaches the market, is the way for Portugal to converge, to be competitive and increase its productivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u3	Mr President, you have signed up to request clarifications of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I wonder if you want to answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u4	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u5	You then have the floor for the first request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I must say that it is a pleasure to hear the honourable Member stand by on these matters, and do so as well as his Government, as the Left Block and as the CFP. In this regard, we have heard a lot. We heard about a month ago the government said it would make a 3 % investment in research and development by 2030 ; we heard, six months earlier, the Prime Minister said that it was 2, 7%, and not by 2030 but by 2020 ; and we heard that three months back on the Prime Minister's statement, which was 2 %, not by 2020 but by 2030. Therefore, Mr President, you are very pleased because, from the point of view of the proclamations, it is undeniable that you have an indisputable talent, a talent at the level of the government's proclamations in this regard. [[PSD applause.]] But we could take it with tolerance, because they are goals, dreams, ambitions, which are always welcome. We could say: 'Well, this is inaccessible goals, but there is already a solid and consistent course in this regard'. Unfortunately, there isn't. Look, with regard to what Mr. Prime Minister said, and taking into account what the Government did in 2017 compared with 2016, and 2016 compared with 2015, it would take 20 years to reach the target of 2, 7%.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u8	Therefore, they are largely beyond that. Worse than that: they have a very bad relationship with universities and research centres, with whom they are in constant conflict, public investment was EUR 850 million less than it was established and public investment is lower than in 2015. So, once again, these are proclamations, nothing more than that. The question I have to ask the Socialist Party is this: when does the Socialist Party once and for all abandon the advertising policy and move on to the realization, as it has promised the Portuguese and cannot achieve? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u9	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u10	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the Socialist Party and Mr Pereira, for the intervention he has produced and for the introduction of the theme, which is quite relevant and which introduces a discussion that is not only short-term and past, of the sad past we have experienced until 2015, but above all a discussion of the future, which has to do with the country's strategic options, faced in the next decade with quite important challenges. Mr President, modernising the economy through innovation and science is an intention on which there will hardly be any party or Member who disagrees. We all agree with the modernisation of the economy and recognize the leverage that the technological innovation process can have in modernising the economy. But, honourable Member, the modernisation of the economy is not done with a divided country, it is not made with an unequal country, it is not done with a country where structural inequalities in the economy are the highest in Europe. Portugal is the most unequal country in European terms and from the point of view of the inequality in the distribution of monetary income is the country in which the range of these incomes is 1 to 10, when the average acceptable distribution range in the European Union is 1 to 7. Therefore, Mr. Deputy, one of the main strategic challenges that Portugal has in the next decade is precisely the correction of this structural imbalance that exists in the economy and in the country. What measures do you think are relevant, which are fundamental, so that this correction in the economic development strategy can be achieved in a decade? The second question has to do with the role of innovation and knowledge in the economy. Mr. Member, as you will certainly know, the inequality between research and development expenditure as a percentage of Portugal's GDP vis-à-vis the European Union, in 2016, was less than one third of what is spending on research and development in the EU at 28 : it was 0, 23 % of GDP in Portugal in 2016, and it was 0, 7 % of GDP in the EU. We are therefore one third of the way forward to get closer to the European average with regard to the value of research and development expenditure. Mr President, what measures do you think are necessary for this imbalance to be eliminated? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u11	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u12	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Cristóvão Norte and Mr Heitor Sousa asked the questions they asked and, starting with answering Mr Cristóvão Norte, I would like to say that Mr seems to have created an alternative reality which is effectively the facts of research and development in GDP, and I already explain why I say this, which is also the usual in the PSD bench. Before that, I wanted to say that in my initial intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this debate I sought to build a convergence discourse with what I find absolutely essential for the country, a mobilization of all around an essential aspect for all, innovation, an economy driven by knowledge to increase productivity, ensure more economic growth and guarantee more employment. It seems to me that this is essential and it seems to me that we should not disagree on this matter. For this reason, I did not want to bring to the debate in the initial phase those who were the results of the PSD and CDS in the years 2011 to 2015. I have avoided doing that, I resist the temptation, but you have asked us to remember what you have done in recent years. And nothing clearer—as the people say, an image is worth more than a thousand words— than to show what your contribution has been to spending on research and development in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you can see in this chart that I show here, you have invested as never in research and development in the years in which you governed and only in 2016 is that we have begun to recover from what was the brutal de-investment that you have done in recent years, in the years in which you governed Portugal. That is why, Mr President, it seems strange that you come to this House with a question that distorts the facts, contradicts the reality and has nothing to do with what is really the Portuguese reality and what is actually happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if you have any doubts about this, I will show you another factual chart, which shows you even more what you have done. This other graph shows the rate of variation between 2010 and 2015 of research and development expenditure, compared to European countries, and see what you have done. What happened in Portugal in 2015 was dramatic! You were able to drop the investment in research and development by 19 %, in complete contradiction with what was happening in Europe, which was growing — imagine! — 22%. This was your heritage, the legacy that you have left on this subject of innovation in Portugal, and I therefore believe that we are discussing this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nevertheless, I would like to say that there must be a lot of room to ask us to meet targets when you broke the path that was being built to achieve the target of 2.5% of GDP in research and development by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Dear Mr Heitor Sousa, the best way to correct inequalities, including territorial inequalities, is also to bet on research and development and innovation in different territories, and that is what we are doing. We are making serious bets, with clear investments, for example, in the technological centres around the country. It is 28 technological centres that are already signalled and that have investment to be more qualified and to help companies in these same territories. It is thus, by introducing innovation in these territories too, that it is possible to increase productivity and thus increase wages and also correct these same inequalities. It seems clear to me that this is the way. On the question you asked about what needs to be done in order to reach 3 % of GDP in research and development, that path is indeed very difficult and requires a lot of us. As I explained, what has been done over the past four years, the four years in which the right has ruled, has to be recovered and that is what we are doing now, that is to say, to mobilize ourselves and empower ourselves to regain and achieve this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u13	Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is 15 days ago that the Democratic Social Party brought the debate on the theme "Economy and Employment". What seemed to the Socialist Party to be an eccentricity of the PSD had at least one merit: that of calling the Socialist Party to a subject that has always been at the heart of our concerns. So much so that today we are again discussing the same subject. Welcome to the debate. If there is something that the Social Democratic Party is proud of being able to create the necessary conditions for the country to develop and grow in a balanced and sustainable way, not only when circumstances and winds are on display, but also when it is necessary to face unfavourable situations and overcome various constraints. That's what's happened in the last few years. We have ruled in one of the most difficult periods of our recent history. However, thanks to the effort and merit of Portuguese workers and entrepreneurs, we were able to return to the crisis. The companies managed to innovate, to adapt and to find new markets. It wasn't easy, but it was possible. Since 2014 the country has been growing. So much so that if the Socialist Government today has positive results to present to the Portuguese, it is well aware that it is benefiting from a path of economic growth that has already begun. Of course he does not confess it, of course he does not publicly recognise it, but that does not alter reality. The Social Democratic Party has been working on innovation and economic modernization. in the previous government, we worked to recover the country from external disbelief and internal disbelief. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u15	We have never had any doubt that modernizing and democratizing the economy is part of the way that it is necessary to go in order to ensure sustainable social growth and prosperity. We have launched a financing process of the Portuguese economy with the focus on recapitalizing our companies, diversifying funding sources, encouraging investment in startups, we have made several lines of credit available to support SMEs. We put the European funds at the service of the economy, strategically viewing them as the engine of development. We have programmed an important share of Portugal 2020 for the competitiveness and internationalisation of our companies, never forgetting support for technological innovation and vocational training. We have improved the competitive environment with a set of reforms, such as in competition, and strengthened the regulation of economic activity. We have created greater fiscal competitiveness, bringing a new blow to the economy. I stress the reform of IRC, approved by more than 85 % of Members and which has created better conditions for promoting investment and job creation,... [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u16	... a win for the country that, by mere ideological prejudice, this left majority decided to waste. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We promote investment, competitiveness and territorial cohesion. I stress the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure which, with a broad consensus, established nearly 60 priority investment projects that this Government praised but unfortunately did not carry out. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u17	But also the reform of the port sector or the creation of the extraordinary Urban Rehabilitation Regime. We have carried out a profound reform in justice. When many companies were experiencing difficulties, we re-orientated the insolvency regime for the recovery of companies instead of abandoning liquidation through the PER—Special Revitalization Process. He won the economy and won thousands and thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u18	Elina Fraga pulls her ears!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u19	We reformed the energy sector in the fight against excessive income, an area considered untouchable and which constituted a barrier to economic growth, and called on large energy companies to make an extraordinary contribution to the balance of public accounts, solidarity and equity with the effort of the Portuguese society as a whole. We have laid the foundations for a reform of the planning of the territory — which we are talking about today for the worst of reasons — which has gone through, among other things, a new Land Policy Basics Act, the Land and Urban Planning and a new Legal Regime of the Territorial Management Instruments. In all this journey we never forget our social-democrat matrix and, therefore, we do not leave our citizens behind socially more fragile. [[PSD applause.]] for the first time in Portugal, in the history of European funds, we created an operational programme specifically designed for social inclusion and employment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has responded in an exemplary and worthy manner to these challenges and to this new reformist momentum in recent years. The country recovered, resumed the path of growth, but, let us be realistic, the country could be growing much more today and benefiting much more. It could grow more if we did not have a socialist government captured by a left-wing majority which is owned by a social market economy, but it could also grow more if the many proposals that the PSD has submitted over time were more welcome from other parties. It is enough to remember the fate of more than three dozen measures that the Democratic Social Party has presented in these two and a half years of legislation in the context of the qualification of Portuguese, the innovation of the economy and the capitalization of companies. The Socialist Party has not had in these matters, as in many others, any kind of availability for the consensus which it so much craves but lacks practice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is from the future of the country that the Social Democratic Party talks about modernising the economy through innovation, technology and science, that is, a better future for Portuguese, a future with more equal opportunities and more opportunities for growth. It is essential to take advantage of the good situation that exists at the international level and that benefits us so much. It is necessary to channel the good results that the country has achieved for strengthening our economy. We want a shifted economy for technological innovations, upstream and downstream, either as a creator of new solutions, or as a user and enhancer of solutions that we share as global players.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u20	Looks like Armenio Carlos talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u21	We want an economy that has the ability to generate more jobs and better paid. We do not want an economy based on low wages that low levels of qualification always drag. We do not want an economy growing at the expense of workers, but rather workers growing at the expense of the economy. We must therefore bet on the qualification of Portuguese workers and on the continuous renewal of their competences. We want an economy that knows how to fully exploit the invaluable capital of our universities and political institutes, our scientists and researchers, our creative and innovative. For many decades, there was a gap between universities and companies. The situation has reversed with the last governments and the two worlds have moved closer, but now it is necessary to go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u22	Now it looks like Jerome is talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u23	It is no longer enough to approach, it is necessary to cross and connect these two worlds in a definitive way — one must be the extension of the other, one must pull from the other. This intersection and interconnection between the business world and the university and scientific universe must be truly symbiotic, whether in operational terms or in terms of objectives and results. when talking about the future we also speak of an economy that can recover and reintegrate our genetic trait, as a nation, that is the sea. It is an ocean of wealth and potential that remains under-utilized and devalued. The subject is vast, like the sea itself, and deserves to be treated with great attention. The enlargement of our continental platform is, in itself, a heritage and an asset that urgently needs to think about how we will explore and protect. What do you think and what does the government do in this matter? Nobody knows. Finally, we are talking about an economy that promotes the confidence of the agents, an economy based on fiscal stability and the stability of labour law, an economy that calls and attracts and not an economy that separates and repels. Throwing out the window a capital of trust that was built with effort, listening to the agents and harmonizing positions, is an economic crime. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members: We all agree that the subject we are discussing today is very important. That's indisputable! What is already absolutely questionable is the tendency, if not the vice, of the Socialist Party to talk about these issues as if it were inventing the wheel, as if it had agreed this morning and had had an epiphany about the importance of innovation and science in modernising the economy. [[PSD applause.]] No, not only are you inventing the wheel, as you are not inventing the way; you are just giving them different names, changing the table. After two and a half years of silence, the usual time came to make the promises. at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 15 February, the Government approved, and I quote, "the constitution of the first six collaborative laboratories, bringing together scientific and academic institutions with the productive sector" in different areas, such as wine growing and others. Now, it happens that already in 2014 and 2015 were launched the so-called « centres of excellence », promoting partnerships between companies and universities in the interior of the country. As you can see by this simple example, the wheel already comes from behind and the path was already open. The important thing is that we do not deviate from him and, in this regard, we have many doubts. This is the right time, we have the right entrepreneurs, the right universities, the right researchers, we just don't have the right government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u24	This is the government supported by parties that defend a statisticated or statisticizing economy, parties that are declared to be against the market economy, parties that distrust the free initiative, deeply conservative, without capacity to change. And no change, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing done! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u25	To request clarification from Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, despite the topic of the debate being « innovation », the new PSD unfortunately did not innovate his speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it was not exactly a speech, it was a discursive melancholy of a PSD that remains tied to a governance that led the country to impoverishment, economic stagnation and divergence with the European Union. Mr President, there is a strategy for innovation. The government has a strategy for innovation. Innovation is on the government's political agenda. Marrying the scientific and technological system with companies, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus empowering our industry and accelerating technology transfer to companies is a crucial challenge for our economy and has been a success in the past two years. This is what has enabled through programmes such as INTERFACE, Industry 4.0 and StartUp to increase foreign direct investment in Portugal, which increased four times in 2017, to strengthen exports and create more SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). The current government managed to reverse the divergent cycle of the previous PSD / CDS government. Between 2012 and 2015, the country experienced a fall in investment in research and development. Portugal was at odds with Europe, diverged from Europe. The PSD and CDS, by concentrating the technological centers of research and development, opted for social isolation. The doctrinal policy "less state" and treating all companies equally was a gross and expensive mistake for the Portuguese economy. In November 2015, under Portugal 2020, payments to companies amounted to only EUR 3 million. From December 2015 to December 2017, i.e. in two years the current government has managed to place EUR 1300 million in the companies of this Community programme. Even with regard to the reprogramming being prepared, the Government has already announced and has ensured that support for companies will continue at the same levels as 2016 and 2017. This has led to more incentives for the dynamization of our economy and has allowed, and has allowed, that 2016 and 2017 were years of convergence with Europe: incentives for businesses, but cross-sectional incentives to all sectors of activity, to all territories and to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; convergence that has counted, it is true, with the effort and dynamics of the private sector, but also the great effort of the public sector has made the difference. The State cannot resign itself from its decisive role in the economy, the State makes the difference. This government, by putting innovation on the agenda and having a strategy for innovation, has programmes and measures, and this has led, above all, to economic growth, increased exports and the creation of more micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, we note once again that the PSD has come to another empty-handed debate without proposals and without ideas. Despite the topic of the debate being 'innovation' and the PSD's speech being the same and not innovative at all, I ask: when will the proposals and ideas that the PSD has announced come about, but are they delaying? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u27	To reply, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u28	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I am sorry that I did not listen, I do not say with the attention that I would deserve but with the attention that I would allow you not to take that step. It is because, in addition to I have stated, in an exhaustive way, a set of reforms that contribute decisively today so that the results of the Socialist Party in government are what the economy is about, I have also been careful to list, in a quantitative way, the number of proposals on these matters and on the sector of the economy that the Democratic Social Party has presented in these two and a half years in Parliament. Let me also tell you, Mr President, that the Social Democratic Party is very pleased with the results, but wants more. And more, not for beer, not for whims, but because you were obliged to give more and have a more ambitious, more enterprising, more reformist spirit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u30	The state in which we left you the state and the state in which we left you the economy is incomparably better than the state in which you left us the state, the state in which you left us the country. There's no comparison! Starting from this starting house, what you guys did was very little or almost nothing! [[PSD applause.]] That is why you do not have the legitimacy to come and talk about an old PSD. Don't! This is that it is a conservative PS, this is that it is a PS tied to a conservative left, this is that it is a PS that does not reform and does not build, this is that it is a PS that is not known to a reformist measure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u32	... this is a PS that presents ads with the greatest defamability, as if, next, I didn't have to materialize. Well, Mr. João Paulo Correia, we are very proud of what we have done and the country has verified and validated this pride with the electoral result it has given us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are now talking about a very modern and innovative issue, which is the precariousness of workers. And the PSD was quite responsible for the development of this aspect. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] However, the constitution of research bodies, working exclusively in public or private laboratories and research centres, is a relatively recent phenomenon that is closely associated with the extraordinary increase in the impact of science on the economy and society in general. Today, there is a considerable number of workers whose activity is exclusively carried out in the search for new knowledge and in the development of the application of scientific knowledge. These are specialized professionals and, in fact, they are employed workers, in which there are many precarious work situations among them, one of the most frequent in the case of the public sector, that of the so-called'research pockets'. with regard to science and technology policies, the national situation is characterized by a long process of de-investment accompanied by an attack on workers' rights and a growing precariousness of labour relations. Here we must make it clear that a policy that effectively promotes the potential of research, development and innovation in our country can never be based on precarious links between workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u36	And it is not serious to say that workers welcome any practice of great turnover, of competition to perform permanent functions in the National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN ). Combating precariousness must be intransigent in this as in other fields of life. Scientific workers have the right to stability, dignity, the value of their work, which is essential for our development and collective progress. however, what happens is that the steps that have been taken to ensure an effective link to these workers are far from sufficient, even though they are often not being given by the institutions that have benefited for years from this specialized workforce.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u37	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u38	If the so-called'scientific employment diploma' is not the full resolution for the problems of precariousness, it is still a tool that cannot be wasted and whose application needs to know much faster developments. On March 19, they had only been sent to the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) 52 contracts for financing, having already 1170 research fellowships signalled. What does the Government do to implement the diploma amended by the Assembly of the Republic? What's the delay in opening the contests? This can't go on like this! Also with regard to PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the Precarious Links in Public Administration ) and the integration of researchers, we continue to say that the problems created within the two-part evaluation committees due to their lack of consideration in this programme must be resolved politically by the Government, and the line of argument that some have developed is unacceptable, stating that the special careers are not covered by the regularization of the current links. The advances in scientific research in Portugal are due, above all, to the commitment and dedication of the work of its agents and to the public effort that feeds the National Scientific and Technological System, in a context where private effort continues to be residual. But it is also true that private interests will always try to take advantage of the one who is the public effort, and this, Mrs and Mrs. Members have negative reflections on the support of working lines that do not, at first sight, result in the increase in capital profits, questioning the social and public-sector and national aims, which may even delay or prevent the development of certain research lines that are most relevant to the sovereign development of our country. from that it is urgent to ask: to whom does this type of model for the development of science, technology and innovation serve?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u39	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u40	It is urgent to make our SCTN a coherent, cohesive and strong body where there is no precariousness so that it is possible to articulate between the productive sector and social, human and territorial development. Only then can it function as an R & D network and as an effective national device for the service of national policies and strategies, acting as an essential element for the modernization of our production apparatus. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u41	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party called us here today for a debate on the modernisation of the economy through innovation and science, but also - and said very clearly - to criticize what the Socialist Party calls 'the previous cycle'. In other words, what the PS came here today was to try to sell that thesis that, after all, there was another way. This is not a new idea, the discourse is not a new one — indeed, yesterday, we heard this speech, we heard the presentation of this thesis at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Coimbra. Yesterday, the country witnessed, incredulous, the presentation of the model of economic growth of « Socrates Business School ». And what is amazing is that today, the discourse that the Socialist Party came here to make is mimetic, it's twins siames, it's Dupond and Dupont with what José Socrates did yesterday in Coimbra. We realize that for the PS, the new cycle is exactly the one that was pointed out yesterday by José Socrates and that we all remember very well where it took us: to bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] The motto is equal, the words are equal and even the protagonists are exactly the same. That is why it is important to remember what many in the Socialist Party said about the one who was the other way. It is important to remind ourselves of what the Socialist Party at the time said it was essential to do in order to have economic growth. At the time, the Socialist Party said that in order to grow it was necessary to renegotiate debt without renegotiating debt there would be no growth; in order to grow Portugal had to let go of the rules, the share of the Budget Treaty; in order to grow we had to break the limits of the deficit; for Portugal to grow, the only way was to dramatically increase public investment in megalomanic and totally unsustainable works; for employment to grow in Portugal it was necessary to break the rules of the new Labour Code. Not only has Portugal renegotiated its debt, but we have not only started to comply with the budget treaty, but we have not only respected the limits of the deficit, as we have had economic growth. As regards public investment, the PS, which talked so much about public investment, which demanded so much public investment, was responsible for the year of the lowest public investment in this century — the year 2016 — and nevertheless with some economic growth, even less than the economic growth of 2015. In terms of employment, after changes to the Labour Code from 2012 onwards, we have always had sustained growth in employment, and the great reform of the Socialist Party was not to touch, not to move, leave and not ruin a previous reform, which continues to produce good results. As for the difference in the way, we're talking! The different thing is to know how fast and how far we want to go in this way, a hard and difficult path that we still have in front of us. On this bench, we are those who do not conform to the «little socialist», with a country that abdicates to make structural reforms to face the future, with a country that lets itself stay behind and that sees its more direct competitors to prosper faster than we do. We are not those who fill their mouths with the need to bet on the qualification of Portuguese, but then they take money from qualified vocational training centres and leave many sectors of our economy, industrial sectors, such as fashion and footwear, such as metalmechanics or as the ceramic industry, without workers and lose orders. We are not those who talk a lot about innovation, but then conform to the fall in productivity in Portugal. We are the ones who do not comply with a Socialist Party that, by breaking his word, has broken with the IRC reduction agreement, which is a fundamental factor to capture foreign direct investment, especially on an industrial basis. in the mandate of this Government, 2016, 2017 and 2018, Portugal has diverged from the other countries of the European Union. Even in 2017, the year in which we converge slightly, we have seen many of the countries that are our most direct competitors grow much faster and more sustainably than we do. It is important to understand why these countries are growing more and how this happened. Ireland and Romania are the champions of growth in 2017 and have an IRC rate 12, 5 % ; Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Cyprus, Hungary, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Spain all grow more than us, all grow above 3% and all have a IRC rate below ours. Now, because it is important for the Socialist Party also to know, all these countries that grow the most, because they have a lower IRC rate than ours, they also pay, at the moment, after the increase of 6 cents that this government has applied to fuels, less gas taxes and less gas taxes. So if we want to go further, it is certainly freeing companies, giving them more conditions, particularly at the fiscal level. If we want to have more growth, more wealth, more employment and more solidarity, we need to have much more solid and robust growth. This brings innovation and knowledge. We know very well where this euphoria of the Socialist Party leads us. Even yesterday, we were reminded where this euphoria leads us and who, after that, in the end, always pays this bill: the Portuguese taxpayers. We're different. We are here to help Portugal grow, but to grow sustainably. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u43	You now have the floor on behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mr Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Modernising the economy requires a coherent strategic framework for the next decade to meet the most relevant designs and objectives for sustained development and for correcting the main social and regional asymmetries in the country. We recognize that, as an instrument of these policies, good management and, above all, a good application of Community funds are valuable levers for these corrections to be effective. however, what we looked forward to and what the government itself looked forward to in the presentation that it did yesterday in the Event Committee for Monitoring the Definition Process of the ‘Portugal 2030 Strategy’, on the strategy Portugal 2030, is very unclear and, above all, very little defined with regard to the application of the various priority objectives which are included in this strategy. One of these priority objectives is undoubtedly the great question of promoting social cohesion and territorial cohesion. Well, what is expected in terms of the evolution of Community funds is that they are at risk of being inferior to what is currently in existence and thus affecting the financial envelope that is addressed to countries with a lower rate of development, particularly the countries of southern Europe, among which is our own country. In addition to this risk of the financial envelope of the Community funds, it is important that policies that are developed are consistent with the objectives identified and also that this same process of modernising the economy escapes from temptations to increase social and territorial inequalities. The Community funds involved in the presentation of the Portugal 2030 strategy have, among other priority objectives, the idea of creating qualifications, training and employment and does not refer to an essential issue, which is the correction of wage inequalities and the reduction of structural imbalances that exist, from the point of view of people's income in our country. We understand that there is no modernization without these imbalances being corrected and we consider that reducing inequalities, reducing poverty in Portugal are strategic objectives so or more relevant for the next decade that it is important to assume within the 2030 Portugal Strategy that we want to achieve. The second threat that exists in this policy for the implementation of Community funds concerns a recent decision adopted in the European Parliament and which is a strategic objective for the development of the next decade in terms of Community policy, which is, in fact, taken up by the communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament which supports that decision. What is assumed in this communication is that the European defence policy is now a strategic design that will justify the investment of around EUR 1 billion for research and development applied to the European Union's military defence industries. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it announces a terrible threat to the very size of the Community cohesion funds that are provided to countries with lower economic and social development rates of the European Union. This vertigo of creating a European defence army for Europe, of creating and favouring an industrial military complex in Europe which will be mainly played by France and Germany will be factors that will further debalance the policy of territorial and social cohesion that the Government announces for the next decade. Managing this threat is something that is not yet clear by the Government of the Socialist Party. We call for urgent clarification to know what we can count on and above all to know what are the main policies that need to be corrected in the next decade so that this threat does not happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u45	Before giving the floor to Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of noise in the Chamber could be lower so that we can listen properly not only to Mr Porfirio Silva but also to other interventions. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the beginning of 2016, the services of the European Commission said about Portugal, in the period which culminated in 2015, that the intensity of R & D ( research and development) had declined in recent years, moving away from the European Union ( EU ) ; that we had a poor framework for innovation in the business field ; that we were doing less than necessary for cooperation between higher education and businesses; and that innovation performance, remaining below the EU average, made the transition to a knowledge-based economy difficult. This was the result of the theory of the minimum state applied to public policies for knowledge, with public investment dragging even more private investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But 2016 was a turning year. R & D expenditure, which had declined since 2010, increased again in 2016 ; from 2015 to 2016, R & D expenditure increased by 5 % more than the relative increase in GDP ; increased the weight of researchers in the active population ; the hiring of researchers by companies grew by 6 %. The 2017 data should confirm this trend. We can ask, why? It's that public investment pushes private investment. And an intelligent public strategy takes the intelligence of the private. It is not about statising innovation, it is about realizing what the most developed countries have realized: hoping that innovation spontaneously emerges from the market is pure ideological illusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To have innovation we need a strategy, we need public policies for knowledge. And that's what you're making the difference today. While the previous government razed the institutional fabric of Portuguese science, eliminating about a hundred research units, this government is committed to strengthening and diversifying institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For example, with the Modernization and Valuation Program of Polytechnic Institutes, we again bet on this network of territorial roots of knowledge, linking higher education, research and social and economic activities promoting cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u47	It's not about paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u48	But we now have a new tool in this strategy of building interface institutions, able to dynamize collaboration between the scientific and technological system and companies, promoting research, development and innovation activities. Speech from Collaborative Laboratories ( CoLab ). Taking this vision into practice, they have already been recognized as Collaborative Laboratories, by proposal of the international panel, six applications in the following areas: CoLab for mountain cultures; CoLab for Portuguese wine and wine; CoLab for digital transformation in industry; CoLab for integrated forest and fire management; CoLab for the Atlantic; CoLab for green ocean technologies and products. from the Mininho to the Algarve, from Tres-os-Montes to the Azores, from the mountain to the Atlantic, the mission of the Collaborative Laboratories is also to make known a tool of territorial and social cohesion, promoting the qualification of employment and densifying the national territory as a whole in terms of knowledge-based activities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The applications for new CoLab continue to remain open. The international evaluation and follow-up panel continues to work. New CoLabs will appear. And the government has already sent those responsible for starting the financing of these CoLabs up to almost EUR 27 million over the next five years. This is another tool of a strategy that now exists. For us, politically, it does not make sense to seek progress in knowledge in a climate of social backwardness. Technical, technological and economic innovation is only worthwhile, can last only and is only sustainable with social innovation of progress. That's our way. If there is strategic reform that is worth it, this is what we are doing, combining better knowledge and better economy for a decent society, with more employment, more qualified, with more rights, in a less unequal country. This is our path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u49	Mr President, the Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u50	I am replying as a whole, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u51	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yesterday, in a demonstration of students at the University of Coimbra, these students called for a new funding policy for higher education to combat school dropout. They claim a review of the RJIES (Legal System of Higher Education Institutions) for more democracy in institutions. Today, in Lisbon, in Braga and in Porto, we also had several student movements, who went out on the street and who want to redeem the right to housing, because today the capacity of the institutions to respond to the problem of real estate speculation is little. There are no university residences. But they claim above all the right to knowledge as the value of democracy and a more inclusive country. in port and in Braga, for example, they also focused on the fact that the response capacity of social action grants today is still scarce. We are the country with a tip rate of the highest and with a stock exchange response capacity of the lowest, which is, in fact, a giant gap for a social action system that is unable to respond to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u54	with regard also to the fight against precariousness, we can look, for example, at what has happened in PREVPAP ( program of extraordinary regularization of precarious links in public administration ). Mr Mário Centeno came to Parliament and was unable to answer a very simple question: what the law of PREVPAP said about teachers and researchers. They're inside PREVPAP. The Minister of Science and Higher Education, in the Commission, also failed to make clear how water is because much of these requirements are falling. It has also given us a number: 67 % of the requirements related to general careers are being approved, forgetting that the overwhelming majority are not for general careers but for special careers. We also look at the application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 : only 51 open contracts submitted until January 31, 2018. The Government says in response to a question from the Left Block: "Well, it is under the autonomy of the institutions, we cannot do anything". Not even the Socialist Youth Members go into this conversation, because they have given a written question to the Government, questioning why the government's liabilities in relation to non-enforcement of Law No 57 / 2017. We can even list the inoperability of the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation). When you look at pockets that are, for example, part of cultural or recreational associations, the FCT wants to deny them the scholarship just because you think it hits the issue of exclusivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u55	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. It's a set of confusions. It says the Ministry of Education Policy itself that this government needs to meet with science as well. I quote this Observatory : « What is still very little and what is little is not good». I would like to ask Mr Porfirio Silva : in reality, what has been the role of this Ministry? Is it, or is it not, in accordance with the rest of the policies that the majority of parliament has followed over these two and a half years of legislation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u57	Also for requests for clarification, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u58	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, started his speech as Mr and his colleague Carlos Pereira, recently quoting figures and data from the services of the European Union. As we are talking about economics, I'm going to supplement some numbers that you, of course, did not want to refer to on purpose. You have the euphoric but meaningless principle of talking about Portugal's economic growth last year. For I will tell you what the economic growth of other European countries comparable with us in 2017 was. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] You are euphoric with economic growth of 2, 5 %. Since Romania had 8 %, Ireland had 7 %, Latvia had 6 %, the Czech Republic had 5 %, Poland had 5 %, Bulgaria had 4 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u59	In 2015 they had the same and we had 1, 8%.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u60	... Cyprus, Hungary, Finland, Lithuania and Slovakia had 4 %, the Netherlands had 3 %, Spain had 3 %, Germany had 6 % and Portugal had 2 %, 5 %. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party : what is the point of constantly talking about Portugal's economic growth in 2017 if we are not converging with the rest of Europe if we continue to be at the end of the European Union's growth trend? Another question has to do with Mr Carlos Pereira, who spoke about the young people returning to Portugal. The honourable Member has forgotten the numbers, but I will give them to you. In 2016, which are the last known numbers, you know how many Portuguese have left Portugal? I'm going to say: 100,000 Portuguese. You know why they weren't there anymore? Due to Brexit, in England, that removed the Portuguese, and due to the crisis in Angola. Therefore, do not talk about the abandonment of young people in the past if they continue to leave the country 100 000 young people because they do not find employment in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u61	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u62	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, as you know, the Ministry of Science approved in the Council of Ministers of 15 February a set of measures for what it called an innovation strategy for Portugal between 2018 and 2030. And it defines an investment in research and development of 3 % of GDP as a 2030 target, in which public expenditure will represent one third and private expenditure two thirds. It means to move from 1, 3 % of GDP in 2016 to 1, 8 % in 2020 and then to 3 % in 2030. We know that in recent years the investment rate in research and development has grown particularly more in the private sector than in the public sector, about twice as much in the private sector as in the public sector. however, the recent OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) continues to insist that the problem is, as it were, in the minds of entrepreneurs. Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister also made this statement in 2015, saying, « The mistake is not in the public investment made in science, the error is in the inadequacy of our business fabric to take advantage of this investment ». I would like to challenge this statement on the basis of two examples I bring. The first is the so-called ICF (Inclusive Community Forum ), which is a newly-created study centre on inclusion policies which, this year, is dedicated to the employability of people with disabilities and which results from the concern of a group of individuals who, with their own funding, went to the New SBE ( School of Business and Economics) and, asking for the academy to collaborate with the research on these matters. The second example I bring on the private initiative has to do with Unbabel, which we have recently come to know. It is a technological company that makes translations based on a community scattered around the world and that resort to INESC-ID (Instituto de Engineering de Sistemas e Computadores, Investigación e Développement ), in Lisbon, because it was there that the founding partner began to work. This founding partner finds that he can only have this connection because he worked there at the beginning, because, otherwise, there are no doors open from universities to companies, companies do not know how to enter the university environment and teachers and researchers have no incentive to work outside this environment. He says that, on the contrary, foreign universities—and he gave the example of the University of Montreal—have been appealing to his company to set up there as a research centre, showing a proactive position by the universities. He said here — and it has already been said several times — that public investment leverages private investment in this area, but given that his government has invested less in recent years, that it has the lowest public investment in the last 10 years, I ask him whether, in addition to initiatives, the Collaborative Laboratories and everything else, it would not be time to finally implement public investment, so that the associated private investment might arise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u63	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Luís Monteiro, all the issues that have raised — democratization of access to higher education, combating precariousness, all this — are very relevant and we give them all the value. But today the debate is not about this, I did not talk about it. But we will have this debate! Mr. Luís Monteiro, I have never run away from this debate and I will never run away, but I do not change the debates. Do you want me to tell you the subject of today's debate? It has to do with modernizing the economy through innovation and science,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... which is also important to combat precariousness. Mr. Paulo Neves, you didn't hear what I said, you asked questions about things I didn't say, and so I will reply-CL when I ask you questions about something I said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I am grateful for your question, not only because it is very relevant, well formulated and relevant. We share all the concerns you put on the table, but we have a problem, which is that we continue to have an unforgettable and extremely serious fact: the average qualification of employers is still lower than the average qualification of workers. And this points directly to another problem that we still have, which is to have available knowledge that a large part of the business fabric is not in a position to absorb. We have to attack this reality, we have to change and that is why we are investing in interface institutions, which are precisely aimed at tackling this problem. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa, I'm not staying here comparing numbers again. We could stay all afternoon, but, essentially, what I want to say to you is that the Socialist Party recognises that the framework you have put in your question is relevant. That is why we are here, and I am glad that there are partners to discuss these issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has long argued that science and innovation will boost value-added creation in the economy. We were unjustly accused of putting science at the service of the economy. We never did, what we said was that knowledge is the basis of modern development and that it is companies and entrepreneurs, new technologies and new ideas, science as a factor of competitiveness in modern economies that transform knowledge into more quality of life for the population and also for future generations. Now they all realize that we were right. Welcome to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u68	We were, in fact, right when we considered it essential that more doctors were gradually absorbed by companies, because it is one of the factors not only of innovation but also of facilitating the connection between research units and the productive sector. To this end, we have established tax incentives in the hiring of doctors by companies - in fact, this is reflected in the 2014 Investment Tax Code - and we have supported the recruitment of doctors by companies through Portugal 2020. We were right when we set up medical programmes in the business environment. We were right when we proposed, early on, a set of very concrete measures: the creation of sectoral councils in various areas, the strengthening of intellectual property rights, the increased participation of the National Research and Innovation System (SI & I) in international networks, the encouragement of economic and scientific diplomacy initiatives, and many others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u70	This government, which frozen the budgets of higher education institutions, which does not fully comply with the signed legislative agreements, which presented an implementation for science in 2016, below what we had in 2013, when we were in full economic crisis, which discontinued the doctoral programmes, which discontinued the Research Programme FCT, which did not open competitions, already in this Legislation, in 2016, now recently agreed on this matter. It took a long time, more than half of this legislature. But even better, it's better late than ever! They have set the goal of achieving a global investment in research and development ( & D) from 3% to 2030 — that is what they brought to this debate — and two thirds will have to correspond to private expenditure. We applaud and remember that during the economic crisis period the sharp fall in private investment in R & D has been counterbalanced with the continued public increase since 2012. in the recent proposal, they say they want to stimulate private investment in R & D activities. They're talking about tax incentives. Where are they? What are tax incentives? They talk about strengthening the participation of the FCT, a future specialization of the FCT, new funding requirements and also about strengthening all the structures and work carried out by the FCT. But, attention, it was good that they first arranged the FCT,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u71	You have tried well to'set up' the FCT!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u72	...that, before, they would fulfill the functions that the FCT already has and only then thought about other responsibilities, because between good intentions and realization there is a huge hiatus, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. We can see how, at the planning level and the regions over two years back, we have found that the coordination and regional development committees (CCDs) have invested values close to zero in science. Zero really, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! See how the Government's Interface programme has not reached the ground. There's no need to do it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem! It is necessary to go beyond words, from announcements to realization! in this desirable action, Mr. Members, it is imperative that Portugal grow, which has the ambition to grow, but not to grow to be on the tail of Europe, not to grow to be the fifth or last. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u73	Have the rice to work to be the first, to be the highest growth! That's why PSD works and that's what PSD ambitious. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u74	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an undeniable starting point for us in this debate, which is the need to overcome the growing difficulties of a more peripheral, dependent and vulnerable country, difficulties that have been accentuated by accession to the euro; it is the need for recovery of lost political and economic instruments that are indispensable to its economic and monetary development of trade relations and the development of the productive sector and the defence of national production and employment; it is the need to guarantee its sovereignty and the full right of the Portuguese people to decide their own destiny and to ensure the prevalence of national interests. There are technological advances to operate at great speed and with significant impacts on the organization of work and society and with foreseeable developments in the near future. The question is that, with or without technological progress, they have been a pretext, in the name of competitiveness, competition, globalisation and internationalisation, to increasingly impose a policy of exploitation of labour force and general impoverishment. This is the expression of the increase in inequalities; the reduction in the weight of labour income in the distribution of national income; the increasing increase in subcontracting through global distribution and production chains; the liquidation of the right of collective bargaining and other rights; the pressure to replace social security systems by care measures; the tax policy measures that alleviate profits and penalise work, among other things, the extension of normal working hours and also the requirement of availability 24 hours a day and flexibility of time. In this respect, the old theses return to the « end of work » or « work without a future ». They present these as an inevitability, as a profound change in the mode of production or a'modernisation' of labour relations, embedded in concepts that are no more than precarious forms of work, which accentuate their exploitative nature. They have acquired the disappearance of 45 % to 60 % of jobs in the countries of southern Europe. We are not even going to ask what they would do, in this 'unemployed society', to the production resulting from this so-called technological revolution, or to ask who would consume it. Nor will we now discuss whether the accounts are true in that'should and there must be' between the lost job and much new job which will inevitably be created. The problem is whether we accept it, if it is true, and if we are condemned to this supposed inevitability. If workers, peoples and countries are doomed to accept their chaotic and inhuman development project and their consideration or disregard for social problems. It is obvious that the advancement of productive forces is, in itself, highly desirable and our country needs this advance and these opportunities to promote development. But technological progress must be accompanied by social and political progress that really does not occur, on the contrary, this technological progress is increasingly used as a pretext for new and more dangerous offensives and extortions. And this is a central problem — the appropriation of technological development gains by monopolistic and multinational capital. An appropriation that extends to the most diverse areas of our collective life, through patents and intellectual property, which translate into real blocks in the transfer and dissemination of knowledge and that represent, for example, delays and setbacks in the eradication of diseases and social tragedies. The causes of social scourges are not in the application of technology or technological development. The problem of technological development is knowing who is serving and who is serving. If technological development is appropriated by an increasingly restricted, richer and more powerful minority or is appropriate for the service of human beings and general development. If it serves to free mankind, in harmony with nature, or for a minority to exercise its dominion, control and subjugation. If he is at the service of some and not of workers and peoples. Innovation, science, technology are the opportunity to create wealth and distribute it. They are an essential component in the country's development programme that we advocate, in order to combat its weaknesses, its dependence, its structural deficits, the weaknesses of its productive sectors and the economy, high unemployment, our insufficient social responses. If less human work is needed to produce the same, when the hours are reduced, which increases wages, which guarantees social security for all, which means, in a framework of lower dependence on labour for production, diversifying sources of social security financing. Today, there are immense potentials in the country to create wealth. An alternative economic policy is possible for quality investment and for the defence of national production, which bets on the reindustrialisation of the country, on the development of science and technology and which has as its main objective job creation. The Portuguese can find in the patriotic and left-wing policy that we defend for the country this answer necessary to deal with the problems and contribute to the construction of a society without exclusions. That is the work and the fight that the CFP will not give up on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u76	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your very strict, milimetric compliance with the time you had. Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for bringing the debate to the very important issue of the link of the scientific and technological world to the business world. This is an important issue, yes, it is a pity that your government has done little, but even little, on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u79	The sensation that gives us is the kind of big gift, with a very large envelope, with a very beautiful pink lacquer, with a high quality role—to the socialist! — but in the background, when we open the gift, we remove another gift from the inside. Expectation has been created, beautiful! The role remains of great quality—it is true! — in a new envelope, with a new gap and we continue in wonder, full of expectations. We undressed and, inside, a new little box appears. We will unravel boxes and more boxes, with all the expectation that the gift will be a great initiative, with great patriotic and left-wing ideas for the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u80	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u81	... with great ideas and innovation. And what do we find? A little box. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u82	in that little box, so well, so well wrapped, with such a nice little drawer—... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u83	... and we with the expectation that something valuable there would be inside or, then, that something would serve the presentation, which will be very happy with that pen—what do we find in there? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u84	It's not Vasco Santana, it's Antonio Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u85	They forgot to show what should be important to the country. [[PSD applause.]] They didn't show us anything! And the proof of this is that competition notices for scientific and technological areas have not opened any;... [[In two and a half years!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u86	...the scientific and technological infrastructures have not opened one! You've been in government for two and a half years! The PCP and the Left Block have already been wrapped up! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is true, 'they have wrapped us up'! But it's true that there's nothing! I am going to give another concrete example of the demonstration of your little one and of your "envelopment": what was a very important project of the previous government, which provided the universities of the interior of centres of excellence, you boycotted everything, ended it. [[In two and a half years!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u87	Curiously, two and a half years later, the socialist government comes to announce or, better, to finish; they kept what was in Trás-os-Montes because it was already finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u88	Sir, your time is up. I would like to thank you for finishing your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u89	Mr President, give me the time of tolerance given to the Block and I will finish. It is only to tell you that they have ended such an important project and that it is now resumed in the same terms by the current government. Programs like the Seed Program, which you announced and even had quite interesting effectiveness...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u90	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u91	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the Seed Program, which you announced and even had quite interesting effectiveness, now, with the change in your government, with the new Secretary of State, it's all over. So, we live in an envelope,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u92	You guys better get wrapped up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u93	...in a cloud of nothing, which gives us your government, the Government of the Left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u94	I have the floor, for one last intervention in this debate, Mr João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u95	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, just one previous point, before returning to the topic of today's debate: it seems that the CDS and PSD have not yet realized that all countries that quote, as growing more than Portugal in 2017, and eventually in 2018, have already grown much more than Portugal in 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u96	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u97	The number you're interested in, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2015, Europe grew by 2, 2 % and Portugal grew by 1, 8 % ; Europe accelerated by 2, 2 % to 2, 3 % and Portugal accelerated by 1, 8 % to 2, 7%! This is the difference, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Romania, Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia, those countries that you refer to,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u98	They didn't fail!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u99	...have grown 6 %! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Do you know how much Ireland grew in 2015? Oh, my God! He grew 23%! Corrected by statistical effects, it grew 8 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u100	They grew up and didn't fail!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u101	Today, it grows 7%. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] And we speeded up! Spain, in 2015, grew by 3, 2 %, slowed to 3, 1 %. We accelerated 1, 8 %. [[PSD protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens to all these countries that you refer to is that,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...historically, they have always grown much more than Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u102	But they never failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u103	The difference between 2015 and 2017 is that we brutally shorten the distance from these countries. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand: the countries that have grown more than Portugal have always existed, the difference now, compared to 2015 is that we brutally shorten the difference between these countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u104	But they didn't fail!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u105	Can I finish talking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u106	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u107	On the policy of innovation, I will inform Mr Mota Soares that I will give him something new, I will do something exactly the same as he did yesterday, José Socrates: I will breathe and utter words. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Now, if you are so concerned that the innovation speech is equal to that of José Socrates, the best thing is to send an e-mail to the former Secretary of State of your Government, who is currently European Commissioner appointed by your Government to change his speech,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because this talk of innovation, productivity and investment in innovation is equal to José Socrates. And, therefore, the best thing is to ban everyone from talking about these issues, perhaps so the problems of Mr Pedro Mota Soares are solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u108	And the visiting school? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u109	Backing up... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] The honourable Member has been visiting school in social security and that was the problem of social security, Mr! [[PS laughter.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] On innovation, the Socialist Party radically disagrees with the PSD and the CDS, in a central area for this debate. The gentlemen. Members seem to think that it is releasing companies, which is leaving the state of the road, that great dynamics of innovation will be created in the field. Well, that's got a problem, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that this has not happened in any country and, curiously, even right-wing governments in Europe bet on technology transfer centres, with a fundamental role of the State. So, the gentlemen. Members have a conservative and passer-by speech, because not even the parties of your political family defend these positions on innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no dichotomy between the private sector, on the one hand, and the state, on the other,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u110	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u111	... what is understood is that there is no innovation without a partnership between the two and what is necessary is that each one should play his role. Now this is exactly what this government is doing, both in the technology interface centres (CIT) and in the Collaborative Laboratories. A study financed by the European Commission recently emerged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u112	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u113	... where the impact on the transformation into an economy was analysed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u114	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u115	... and carried out by the Fraunhofer Association, German, which, curiously, will open an agency in port — now, it is not with your government, it is with this government. This study concludes that these institutions, in which state investment is central, are the only ones capable of changing the dynamics of innovation, increasing the value produced and productivity in a country. Now it's exactly this that this...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u116	Mr. João Galamba, I again call on you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u117	I will now finish, Mr President. That is exactly what this government is doing, and it is regrettable that you are. Members of the PSD and the CDS... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... continue to believe that it is liberalizing and throwing money, without discretion, on top of companies, even those who do not innovate, nor will ever innovate, that they will change whatever is in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u118	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u119	It's not like that, nor has it. It is the way we are doing, the way this government is implementing the policies in innovation that multiply the system that you have destroyed and that we are now building. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-22.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on « modernising the economy through innovation and science» is concluded. Our next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, 23 March, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the urgent debate required by BE under Article 74 as a matter of order. the Rules of Procedure, on policies for the inclusion of persons with disabilities, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1319 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Discontamination of soils and aquifers from the Beach of Victory ( PSD ), 1270 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote total decontamination of the third island ( PS ), 1320 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and repair of environmental damage resulting from foreign military activity on the Third Island ( BE ), 1326 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decontamination and recovery of areas affected by the activity of the United States Air Force at the Lajes Base, on the Third Island ( The Greens ), 1336 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repair of environmental damage caused by U.S. military forces stationed at Lajes Base ( CDS-PP ) and 1417 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the effective identification and rehabilitation of sites contaminated on the third island by the military presence of the United States of America ( PAN ), and the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1222 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the capacity of public responses in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism ( PCP ), 1429 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specialized and effective public response for intervention in additive and addiction behaviour ( NAP ), 1430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of the conditions for the allocation of financial support by SICAD to entities promoting risk reduction and harm minimisation projects ( NAPs) and 1431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a model of intervention in the area of dependencies with more integrated and articulated responses, as well as a serious bet on reducing risks and minimizing damage ( BE ), and finally draft resolution No 63 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe against Human Trafficking, opened for signature in Santiago de Compostela, on 22 March 2015 without due time. at the end of the work, there will be the statutory votes. Nothing else to deal with for today, the session is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 16 hours and 45 minutes.]]
