ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. on our agenda are three points: discussion of the legal norms, voting of the legal norms and continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. However, I have the information that there are several parliamentary groups that wish to discuss the Bureau. in this sense, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u2	Mr President, it is in order to appeal to the plenary of a decision by the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization ( COFMA ), which yesterday made it impossible to vote on a proposal from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u3	Mr President, I ask you to explain quickly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u4	If Mr President will allow me, I shall now present the request within the two minutes provided for in the Rules of Procedure for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u5	Then, your explanation will be given at the time you make the submission of the application. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also wants to speak to the Bureau, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u6	Mr President, in a similar situation, I would also like to appeal to the plenary of a decision by the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on proposal 476 - C, tabled by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u7	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on her extensive work yesterday, because I saw that the work was still under way about 1 in the morning. From my own experience, I know that conducting such a meeting is not quite easy and, I think, the President has been replaced very few times. But the request of the PCP and the Left Block is regiment, and I therefore ask you to submit the requests quickly, which we shall then vote on. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the CFP was prevented from voting on its proposal so that the reduction of electricity VAT will cover more Portuguese. This has happened because the PSD does not want electricity VAT to be lowered and much less so that the PCP proposal is approved so that more Portuguese can benefit. Therefore, the President of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, to satisfy the interests of the PSD and to prevent the discussion of this proposal,... [[PSD protests.]] ... it was recalled yesterday to invent the rule that the Assembly of the Republic cannot extend the extension of legislative authorization. Now, on 6 April, in the discussion of the Bill No 111 / XIII / 3. the President of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation himself admitted amendments which were discussed, voted, passed and put into law, extending the extension of legislative authorisation. On 4 May, in the discussion of the Bill No 123 / XIII / 3. the President himself admitted proposals extending the extension of legislative authorisation. These proposals have been approved, published in the Journal of the Republic and are now valid as a law. What this proves, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that yesterday's attitude of the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization is discretionary, limits the initiative of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic and prevents discussion of a proposal such as the one presented by the CFP, so that the reduction of VAT on electricity not only covers the Portuguese with the lowest contracted power, as it is in the Government's proposal, but most domestic consumers in Portugal. The attitude of the President of the Committee on Budgets is unacceptable by giving cover to the PSD's intention to prevent the vote on our proposal, and it is unacceptable for the Assembly of the Republic and the Members to be conditioned by a discretionary attitude of these. This confirms the seriousness of the obvious conclusion: the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation does not have the conditions or capacity to perform the functions he performs. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u10	I conclude, Mr. President. But, worse than that, Portuguese cannot benefit from a further reduction in VAT because of the discretionary and unacceptable attitude of the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u11	Mr President, it is clear that I am keeping everything I said earlier about the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, as well as the recognition that we should all have for the perfectly comprehensive work you had during yesterday's meeting. I believe, moreover, that we should study a way of not having meetings that take 9 or 10 hours, as happened yesterday. The application you have submitted will, of course, be voted on, such as that of the Left Block, which will then be submitted. You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. We saw yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, a disauthorization of the plenary, made by an artist from the PSD, who wants to escape the vote on the reduction of electricity VAT, covering more families in our country. This PSD escape is not to give the face, because in practice you do not want to vote on the reduction of electricity VAT, so as to cover more families, and to flee to the vote, in the House of Democracy, uses administrative handicrafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u13	All right! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u14	We do not accept this and do not accept that the plenary is unauthorized! The story is very simple, Mr President: the Left Block proposal entered on November 15 and no one questioned its admissibility. Last Friday, pending, burning questions were put in the Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization Committee and the PSD said nothing, did not put any problem. More: this proposal was discussed yesterday in plenary and the PSD said nothing, continued to have no problem. Yesterday, at 23 hours and 30 minutes, the problem was raised and, curiously, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, which is also the PSD, gave reason to this craftsmanship of his party. This is unacceptable and we are not silent in the face of this attack by the Assembly of the Republic, Members and Members of Parliament and the Plenary. Mr President, on precedents, which is the argument that has been used, there is no precedent. Last year, what happened was that a new legislative authorisation was submitted and rejected. But I never repeat, the Assembly of the Republic has never prevented amendments to legislative authorizations in or out of the State budget. The example of Bill No 111 / XIII / 3. the is paradigmatic, but there are hundreds of examples throughout the various years of discussion of the State budget. Change the rules in the middle of the game in 25. the time, it's an artiman of the PSD with which we don't deal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u15	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u16	Mr President, the Greens also had a proposal that had not been voted on, precisely because the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation felt that the Assembly of the Republic could not extend the scope of legislative authorization. But, as has already been mentioned, there are precedents in this matter and, therefore, if there were any doubts, they would be clarified. We therefore do not follow the decision of the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, which is somehow preventing the vote on a proposal which, if approved, could be beneficial to thousands and thousands of Portuguese families. We cannot accept that this plenary is unauthorized and we cannot accept that, by administrative means, thousands of Portuguese families are finally penalized. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u17	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, was involved in this issue. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, weeks before the submission of the State budget proposal, left parties have come to announce to the country that they are going to reduce electricity VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u19	No, no one announced!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u20	The budget proposal has arrived and none of it was there, but the vote of these parties was in favour of the budget. We came to the discussion on the specialty and we thought that the left parties would present a proposal for this Parliament to approve the reduction of VAT on electricity, but they did nothing of it. Or because they were incompetent or because they were playing with the Portuguese, what did they do? They looked at the government's legislative authorization on the VAT of counters and, knowing that the Constitution does not allow the government to do something that the government has not asked for... [[False!]] [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u21	... and without the courage to present a proposal to move on to electricity VAT, they have arranged an artisan so they don't have to put Parliament to vote and decide something that they don't have the courage to do. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u22	I would ask you to keep quiet so that the speaker can conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u23	So caught up, the CDS, PSD and PS rejected the same thing that one of your parliamentary groups rejected here one year ago. I don't know which of the two, I must tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u24	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u25	...but one of the two, last year, refused a request for legislative authorization from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u26	It was the PSD that banned it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u27	What can I say, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you wanted to move in electricity VAT and you would have tabled a proposal for an amendment here. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u28	I ask you to let Mr António Leitão Amaro finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u29	Only the problem is this: you're playing with the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u30	Vote for proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u31	We in the PSD — and I believe that the CDS and the PS too — vote on what we believe in. You speak, speak, speak, and eventually vote in favour of the Budget, against what they say. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u32	Mr President, that is not what is at stake, what is at stake is a vote to be taken next in plenary. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u33	I shall conclude by addressing Mr. João Oliveira : who has heard him say, about ministers who have no conditions, involved in Tanks and with political responsibilities in Pedrogão, who did not rule on conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u34	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u35	...I have now heard you say here that a President of a Commission, who fights and dignifies Parliament, with hours and hours of work, with justice and dignity, has no means to continue... You, who shut up before political responsibility in Tanks and Pedrogão,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u36	Mr President, you have to finish your speech, you have already exceeded the time you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u37	...is it possible to come here to teach someone moral lessons? Oh, my God! Have shame! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u38	You don't want to vote on the proposals! They're government cape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at issue is an appeal for the plenary and, therefore, it is the plenary that has to take action. The appeal requests for the plenary relate to the non-acceptability of proposals already discussed by the Bureau of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation at the meeting last night. I believe that the vote on the requests submitted by the CFP and BE can be taken together...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u40	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u41	Please, Mr, but we will not make this matter go on for much longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u42	Mr President, we can vote on the demands together, but there is a question following the decision, in order to know whether there will be a rule, unconstitutional, which prevents the submission of amendments by parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u43	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see what the outcome of the vote on the requests is and then there will be no more comments on it, the comments will be made between the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u44	But, after all, is it constitutional or unconstitutional? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u45	Let us therefore vote on the requests submitted by the CFP and BE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u46	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u47	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u48	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u49	Mr President, it is to announce that, in dual capacity as a Member and Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u50	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will immediately enter the agenda, with the discussion of the legal standards, which are divided by seven groups: health, ISP (tax on oil and energy products), IRC, education, VAT, energy and other topics.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u51	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u52	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u53	Mr President, it is to make a point of order related to the conduct of the work. Today's script contains two lawyers related to Article 211. the, therefore, in the example of what happened yesterday about the Central Hospital of Madeira, it will be necessary to vote on all the proposals that fall on this article. in this sense, I request that the script of yesterday's votes related to Article 211 be distributed in the next few minutes. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u54	Mr, we are not yet in the voting stage, we are at the stage of discussion of legal standards and we are going to start with the health issue. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese can't understand what's going on in relation to the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João. I must say that, more than as a Member, as a doctor and as a father, it is revolting to know that those children, many of them with cancer, are still being treated in those containers and being transferred to the main building, often to rain and with negative temperatures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u56	That wasn't yesterday! You weren't in the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u57	What the State has done is fail, because of the failed and successive promises, of the socialist government. We always said that it was necessary to resolve the situation urgently, if necessary with the direct adjustment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u58	Sir, I'm sorry but there's a lot of noise in the room. I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members of the various stands who are in favour of sitting or leaving the Chamber, so that you can continue your intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that we in the PSD argued that it was possible to make a direct adjustment to speed up the work, but the PS and the government said in turn that this was not possible. Now, what we saw here yesterday and what we see in the PS proposal is that, after all, they defend the direct adjustment for the work to be done in 2019, which only reveals one thing: they have not done the work until now, because they did not want it! [[PSD applause.]] What's clear, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has put forward a proposal and will vote on all proposals, including those of the Socialist Party, ensuring that there is no longer any excuse, because they have to do the work of the pediatric wing, and it is not tomorrow, it is today! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u60	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this PSD intervention reveals its bad conscience regarding the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João. It's the PSD's bad conscience! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You have much to explain to the region of Porto and the country about this situation, because your Prime Minister, in the previous government, was twice to throw the first stone of a work that never started! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u63	And, moreover, Mr President, what is even more serious is that it was to throw the first stone, knowing that there was no funding for the work. That's tricking people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You had a golden opportunity, when you were challenged here in the plenary, by Mr. Prime Minister, to present a bill to exempt the previous visa of the Court of Auditors and move forward with the direct adjustment to the work, but instead of presenting a bill, you presented a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u64	The gentlemen plunged him here in October!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u65	You have agreed on this matter! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party's proposal is the only one that solves the situation: it shortens the deadlines and, with this, the work of the pediatric center of the Hospital of São João will start in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u66	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, there were many years of cuts in the budget of the National Health Service ( SNS ), mainly during 2010 and 2015, and this had an impact. There are hospitals whose construction has been considered a priority for many years, but they continue to operate in insufficient facilities. The PSD/CDS government has done nothing! There are fundamental works that have been dragged and not completed, in particular works where only the first stones were thrown, but nothing else did, because the PSD/CDS government has only advanced with the cut in expenses in the National Health Service. in this State Budget, the Left Block presents proposals for the budget to effectively respond to the needs of the population, namely: the start of the procedures for the construction of the new hospitals, namely Barcelos, the Povoa of Varzim and Algarve ; the expansion of the hospital of Beja ; the start of the construction of phase C of the new building of the hospital of Gaia ; and, yes, the construction of the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João. These proposals are adopted because these, in addition to rhetoric, are those that the SNS effectively needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u68	You now have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think that in the vote of the proposals on the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João we will finally realize what counts most for each parliamentary group in this House, if it is to unlock the subject and start the works of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, or if it is the acute partisan, which leads to that, in this matter, some go to chum the proposals of others, which results in the postponement of the work. on our part, in the CDS, we will do what we have always done: we will vote in favour of all the proposals that can make this work a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u70	We will enter the second theme of the oil product tax ( ISP ). Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the CDS calls on this plenary to propose an additional tax on petrol and gas oil, because we want it to be very obvious, we want it to be very, very clear who are responsible for creating this tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u73	... but also who are responsible for the maintenance, in this State budget, of this tax, which is deeply concerned about families and companies in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u75	It is essential that every Portuguese who goes to a gas pump knows that today he is paying more than 33 cents per litre of gas oil than he was paying at the beginning of 2016, when the government created this overtax, and that of these 33 cents, 14 cents respect taxes. In fact, the same thing happens in gasoline, i.e. gasoline costs more than 17 cents today, of which 8 cents are taxed. in this State budget it has been mentioned very much that the government has missed its word and that there have been many proposals — particularly in matters relating to teachers, police and magistrates — to force the government to honour the word it has given. This is also a matter of honoring the word!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u77	But at this moment it is not only the word given by the Government, it is the word given by the Block of Left, by Mrs Catarina Martins, who said here in this plenary that "it is time for the Government to fulfil the promise and to achieve the fiscal neutrality that has been promised", it is also the word of Mr João Oliveira, who, when the CDS brought this matter to plenary in June, denied it, saying that the matter should be discussed in the Budget of the State and that, if it did not resolve in June - and I quote Mr. PCP Mr João Oliveira - "the matter will be resolved in the State Budget for 2019". Here we are in the State Budget for 2019! The CDS did what it had to do, that is to say, it proposed the elimination of the overtax and the drop to now, for all Portuguese, of the price of gasoline and of the price of gas oil. Who missed his word was the Government and the Socialist Party and who also missed his word was the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens. in this sense, when the Portuguese go to the gas pump and find that gasoline and gas oil are very expensive, they know that this responsibility is of António Costa, but it is also of Catarina Martins and of Jerónimo de Sousa. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u78	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in February 2016, turning the austerity page, the Left Government decided to increase fuel tax and since then the Portuguese paid more than EUR 1000 million, I repeat, EUR 1000 million, in fuel taxes to be spent by the Left Government, which would turn the austerity page. The Government has already said that in 2019 the effect of this increase is about EUR 500 million. That is to say, more than 500 million euros that you have decided to put the Portuguese people to pay for fuel taxes, mainly on gas oil, because 80% of Portuguese people use gas oil, especially companies and many Portuguese people who don't have income to pay for IRS, but who pay for fuel taxes. What has the government done since the beginning? He promised that he would reverse this increase when the price of fuels increased. And the left parties, still this year, months ago, also said that, when the State Budget arrived, they would reverse the increase in fuel tax. Now they had one, two, three, four, five opportunities and they never did. They have never reversed this increase in taxes. They're missing the word! In fact, as we have seen recently, today is the day of the political farce of the majority of the left, the farce of those who promised to reduce the fuel tax and fail each vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u80	Be quiet! You've just done the government a favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u81	PS, Block and PCP are becoming more and more alike, only that PS minds faster, promises and then fails; PCP and PCP take a little longer! But the Portuguese don’t forget, and every time they get to the bomb, they’ll remember you! PS, PCP and Block are on the Portuguese fuel account, and that account is getting heavier and heavier. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now get into the third topic, that of IRC. Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, businesses and entrepreneurs who generate jobs and prosperity are ignored by this government. Worse : in the Government's initial proposal there were empty measures, but rates and tax rates were increased, including the ISP, which exacerbate the tax burden on businesses and entrepreneurs. The burden of corporate income taxes is increasing with this government and reaches the highest value since 2008. With this State budget, the situation is aggravated, and it is not just the PSD who says so, all business associations are unanimous in saying that this State budget does not serve businesses and entrepreneurs. Those who create jobs and prosperity are ignored, are the poor relatives of this government. In the field of expertise, despite the PSD's efforts to adopt a number of measures that would improve taxation for companies, nothing or little has changed. We therefore advocate today the proposal to lower the IRC of companies, because this increases business stimulus, but also increases and represents an important signal to foreign investment. Portugal has the second highest IRC rate in the whole OECD. This is not possible and we need to change! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u84	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I was not expecting the PCP and Left Block benches to be completely zero on the ISP theme, since they talked so much about this plenary on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u86	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u87	They put the words they said in the bag, they turned completely against everything they said, they failed their word, they came here and they preferred nothing to say. But, Mr President, we are currently discussing another topic, that of IRC, and, above all, we are discussing the great absence of this State budget: measures to stimulate the economy and encourage businesses themselves. It was precisely for this reason that the CDS presented a measure in this State budget to eliminate the increase of 50 % of the autonomous taxes that the Government had provided, taxes, these which are very important for the cars of the companies, in order to be able to continue to carry out its activities. I am glad that we were able to stop this and at least to ensure that this State budget is not so bad for companies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u88	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u89	Mr President, the Government began by presenting in this State budget an increase in taxes on the costs of the cars of companies — of them all, the large ones, the small ones, the ones that have profits, the ones that have no profits... — in the amount of 50 million. This increase in generalised and cross-border taxes on companies was rejected by all parties. What is not clear is how the same government, which has no problem with cross-border increases in corporate taxes, declined in the fairest way of taxation, which was to create a new stopover for businesses with profits above EUR 7, EUR 5 million, which would represent a revenue of EUR 20 million. This would be a fair way of taxing companies, which would have given the Government a chance to have a more progressive taxation, much better than the one it proposed to the Assembly of the Republic in the initial version of the State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u90	You have the floor by the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the two interventions we have just heard in the plenary show the need for the government to keep the one who is responsible. The best message we should give to companies is a message of fiscal stability, which enables them to create the appropriate context for investment. Therefore, the State Budget for 2019 is a budget that thinks about companies, and all companies. Last year, we worsened the state spill, this year it was not justified to move back to the state spill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u92	It was justifiably justified!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u93	For small and medium-sized enterprises, this State budget reinforces the deduction of retained and reinvested profits, that is to say, it stimulates that the profits generated by small and medium-sized enterprises can be reinvested into the service of more employment. This State budget is also a budget to be considered for micro and small businesses, because it is for them, in particular, that the exemption from the obligation of the CFP (special payment on behalf of the Committee) means a tax relief. This is the responsible path and this is the way that gives companies confidence to continue to invest and to continue the growth we have achieved throughout this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next issue, that of education. Mrs. German Rocha, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the measure of free school textbooks is important, but it must be fair and supportive and can only be fair if it respects the choice of students' educational project. The measure, as it is, does not promote equity, placing on the same plane family aggregates that benefit from school social action and very high income aggregates. This measure does not promote equal opportunities, because it is not accompanied by increased support for school social action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u96	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u97	Students need school textbooks, but they also need adequate school material, basic conditions in schools, teachers and motivated employees. The State cannot continue to fail, creating more injustices. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u98	Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the programme for the free of charge of school textbooks, what the Government proposes, and the PS Parliamentary Group supports, is to extend the free of school textbooks to all compulsory schooling, I stress, to all compulsory schooling, moving forward one more step towards the free of charge provided for by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. One misunderstanding, which is not only right here, is also from other commentators: the freeness of school textbooks is not only for public schools, it is also for private schools with association contract and for private professional schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u101	There have already been those who proposed that this should not be the case and that this measure should be limited to public schools, but the PS continues to ensure that it is also for schools with association contracts and for private professional schools. What the PSD wanted was that in the same class, in the same group of students, some received state manuals, assistance manuals, and others had their manuals. But no! Social division cannot go through the same group of students, social division cannot go through books, which are a tool for building civilization. That's right! Social rule of law is not a state of care! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u102	We are now moving on to the next issue of VAT. Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the importance of culture, training and education is essential for the Government and for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and a significant contribution is that of reducing the cost of access to supports, regardless of how they appear. Following the decision of the Ecofin Council, where a directive was adopted which allowed the VAT applicable to digital communication media to be equal to the VAT applied on other media, the PS was able to present here, in the budgetary discussion on the speciality, a proposal which specifically aims at this equivalence. Thus, with this proposal and the solution presented today, and which are now under discussion, the principle is assured that the cultural and educational value of publications does not depend on its support, contrary to what has happened so far. This amendment to the VAT Code therefore allows VAT tax for all publications, in this case at a reduced rate, regardless of their physical or digital support. This is a very important solution and contribution to access to education and to the dissemination of all means, also contributing, in this way, to the revolution we are making in Portuguese society, which is that of valuing digital media and all the mechanisms in which they manifest themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u104	The next item is Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,'soft stone water beats so hard until it digs' — so it must be in culture. It was not yet that the 1% target of public expenditure for culture was entered in the State budget, but we did not give up fighting for this goal, when more and more voices joined and raised so that this would be a reality. The CFP will be here and will come back with this proposal whenever necessary. in this State budget, in addition to this, there were several proposals of the PCP for the structuring of a real public service of culture. And it was possible to achieve new advances, with the PCP mark, at the level of safeguarding heritage, through the approval of the letter of risk and interventions to safeguard and enhance cultural heritage ; the reactivation of the programme of support to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ; new lines of support for literary creation, for translation and first works; the revitalization of Cinemateca and ANIM ( National Archive of Images in Movement ) ; the general reduction of VAT for shows, democratizing access to cultural profits. It is possible to go further with other proposals from the CFP that will still be voted on, such as those aimed at strengthening the funding of the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual and the increase, by about EUR 5,5 million, of the funds of the Directorate-General for Arts ( DGARTES) for public support for the arts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, while culture is seen as an invoice and not as a tool for individual development and collective progress, it loses the people and loses the country. The PCP will do everything to break up with that direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u108	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the beginning of the afternoon, we mentioned here that the budget proposal would take a small step in the replacement of justice by ending with the exemption of the VAT payment for drivers. But by night, the ultra-conservative identity policy has caused this rule to fall. This tax exemption is in itself a profound injustice. There is injustice, because the contribution of a doctor or nurse to society cannot be comparable to the action of a tour worker, a « batterer» recognized by the State. There is injustice, because tourists are exempt, but other professionals, such as veterinary doctors or lawyers, who contribute widely to the collective, either by reducing risks to public health, or by ensuring access to justice, a fundamental and elementary right in a state of democratic law, pay a rate of 23 %. This exemption is totally unjust, because it favours a group of people whose activity is based on the torture of a conscious being, who suffers and feels pain like any one of us. It is unfair, because this industry benefits, at the expense of all the taxpayers, whether they are supporters of the bullfighting industry or not. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you so often saying about freedom, when you talk about bull machia, why do you insist on forcing Portuguese people to spend an activity that they repudiate? Our freedom ends where the one begins and in the Tauromachy there is a freedom that is always violated: that of those who do not want to participate and be raped. And if it is true that the State cannot and should not interfere with artistic autonomy, it is also true that it should not be indifferent when the State presupposes torture or forms of cruelty. Invocation of culture, religion or tradition cannot, in any case, justify violations of all and any rights. By refusing to intervene, the State allows the freedom of the strongest to undermine the freedom of the weakest. The freedom of one cannot or should not mean the oppression of others, otherwise we are only faced with a mirage of freedom. The right to the enjoyment of persons cannot overlap with the right to life of an animal. The ill-treatment or death of an animal must never be a spectacle and even the fact that it is classified as "animal animal" in nothing removes its dignity or the right to at least have a life of welfare and a peaceful death. Our legislation has long established that cruel treatment and unnecessary suffering of animals are prohibited, including in respect of animals that are created and slaughtered for food. The bullfight, specifically exceptional in the law, for reasons of identity, remains as a manifest violation of these principles. If there is anything to be said about the tours, they benefit from discrimination that favours them, which allows their maintenance and their restraint, even if they contradict, at all, the spirit of the law. As long as Parliament recognises bullfighting as legal, the State must adopt a fiscal, financial and institutionally neutral position. And, in this particular, not only has the State not kept itself neutral as it has given answers precisely in order to perpetuate the Tauromachy, a practice which the ultra-conservative identity policy, with the aid of nationalist arguments, is called 'True Portugal'. It is not only tax benefits, financial sponsorships or public and open-source television broadcasts that testify to this critical lack of State neutrality. We recall that in recent years, in the name of this policy, the death rallies have been legalized and never prevented, against the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, that children attend the bulldozers. The same country that classifys films for older than 18 years is what allows entry into bull squares of children from 3 years old. For Parliament, none of this is obscene. In the face of all this, the truth is that Members of this House and Members of this House continue not to touch each other. contrary to the image they try to bring — the Tauromáquia industry and its political representatives in Parliament — there has been no attack on the Tauromachia, quite the contrary, we have gradually witnessed the continued strengthening of the State's fiscal, financial and institutional support for this activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal to end the exemption from the payment of taxes on the part of tourists is only intended to bring some decency to the role of the State. [[Congrats from PS MP Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u110	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the decline in VAT for cultural activities, I would like to say the following: the position of the Greens in principle is very clear and is not now. We are in favour of VAT decline for cultural activities, but we do not agree that VAT goes down for tourdas. In fact, it seems clear to us that, regardless of the position that each one of us may have, the tourdas is a violent spectacle. It is violent both from the point of view of aggression that is done on the animal, and from the point of view of those who witness this aggression. As is public, the Greens have long argued that public funding for the tourdas should end. Moreover, public funding must end, just as any public promotion to tourists must also end. And for this reason, we have already presented legislative initiatives in this House of the Republic for several times so that public television does not broadcast bulldozers. Therefore, in our view, there should be no public promotion or public funding. If the tours exist, they should be self-financed and the State should not encourage such shows with public funding. Now, lowering VAT in rounds is an indirect form of public funding with which we do not agree. Indeed, we do not agree with direct public funding, nor with other instruments, such as the reduction of VAT in rounds. In short, we agree that VAT goes down for cultural shows, but we do not agree that VAT goes down for tourdas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u112	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The VAT of cultural and artistic shows fell to 6 %. We negotiated this measure with the government and finally, in the specialty, we managed to extend it to all cultural shows, festivals in open enclosures and cinema, and from January onwards, because there was no reason for it to be only from June onwards. We regret that PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PCP have taken advantage of this desire to fulfill everyone's desire to access culture to promote and support a show involving enormous animal suffering, giving him the benefit of the reduced VAT rate. We disagree, at all, with this decision, at all, that we disagree in any form of the State to promote or support the Tauromachic spectacles. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u114	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the beginning of the debate on this budget, the CDS has presented as one of its priorities the reduction of VAT for culture. We have always done it in a neutral way in relation to what cultural activities are. We did not take this opportunity to say that some cultural activities are better and others are worse, that we like more dumas and that we like less than others. We never took advantage of a change to promote access to culture to promote a culture of taste, whether our own or any other. The discussion of this point was one of the most regrettable moments of the discussion of the State budget for the coming year, with absolutely unacceptable statements by the Minister of Culture. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Fortunately, common sense prevailed. We always said that the CDS proposal was fairer because it lowered VAT for all cultural activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u116	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u117	This proposal was adopted and thus a good measure was taken: VAT has been lowered for all cultures and nobody's taste has been discriminated against. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the debate on the sixth issue, on energy. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, in the area of energy, the Government has decided to go on a different path from the one advocated by the CFP, which is that of reducing energy VAT to 6 %, thus reversing a serious measure of the PSD/CDS-PP Government. The measures submitted by the Government do not give us any guarantee that they will result in a fall in energy price until there is an announcement of strong price increases on the wholesale market. We have many doubts about the results for the tariffs, about what the government has entered into in the budget. We therefore asked that we hear at this stage the ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) so that Parliament could know exactly what it is voting on, which was inexplicably rejected. The changes in the Department of Energy and DGEG ( Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ), which cannot be disconnected from the pressures of the economic groups in this sector, as had already happened in the PSD/CDS-PP government, have only come to our concerns. We have already announced that we will urgently call on the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to provide the necessary clarifications. The intervention of the CFP will be to ensure that there is an effective reduction in the energy tariff. We have tabled the proposal to extend the reduction of VAT to the contracted power of 6, 9 kVA, since the minimum power does not, at all, correspond to the needs of many families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u121	The PSD has prevented voting on this proposal, thus making it another freight to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u123	We have also put forward proposals to end the excessive benefits and income by directing overcompensation values to the tariff, in particular the 285 million CMECs (costs for maintaining the contractual balance) or the 300 million of the subsidy of the PRE (production under special arrangements) ; extend the time limit for consumers to continue or return to regulated or transitional tariffs. We have put forward proposals to obtain more revenue for the system and then to lower the rates by means of renegotiating contracts in which the State does not gain. We have also presented an addition that ensures that the review of the clawback mechanism is reflected in the reduction of tariffs and, moreover, a maximum price regime for fuel and gas, measures for the effective implementation of an energy efficiency programme, starting with an example by the State. These are proposals that would mean, yes, a reduction in energy costs for Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the discussion of the legal rules, we have moved on to the last group — other issues. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bloc approved yesterday, as a matter of debate in the specialty, an important measure with the PSD's favourable vote. It is a measure that exacerbates the taxation of real estate capital when they are delivered to offshore from 28 % to 35 %. It is also true that the remaining proposals presented by the Bloc on aggravating taxation of capital gains in situations of speculation have been rejected. We know the reasons for the PSD, the arguments were presented, less clear was the position of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party voted against these measures without having heard any justification for its position, and even contrary to the concerns it expressed in the past, either about the need to combat speculation, or about the need to approve, in this Budget, a measure that would meet that end. We did not hear any justification, we missed the change in the position of the Socialist Party, and we did not want to fail to point this out. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u126	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, with this intervention we want to highlight two proposals put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, which are aimed at strengthening the financing of the Portuguese firefighters. With the first proposal, 148 - C, the CFP proposes that firefighters be guaranteed access to the so-called 'green gas oil', i.e. gas oil used in civil protection operations is exempt from fuel tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u128	Gas oil? Oh, my God! Does the PCP still talk about gas oil? Oh, my God! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u129	It is not acceptable for the PCP that firefighters pay for the fuels they use in civil protection the same as any particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u130	Because of the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u131	This way, the CFP aims to improve the funding of firefighters. [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Nuno Magalhães and Pedro Mota Soares.]] The CDS will have the opportunity to vote in favour of the proposal. The second proposal we present determines that a percentage of insurance premiums is directed towards the municipal civil protection system, thus providing the municipalities with the funds necessary for the same civil protection. Finally, I would like to say that for the CFP, firefighters — whether volunteers, or professionals — are indeed the backbone of the civil protection system, and it is urgent to combat both under-financing and the secondaryization and devaluation of firefighters, which is aggravated by the recent legislation adopted by the Council of Ministers. in this and other dimensions, the CFP will continue its intervention to improve the living and working conditions of firefighters. Thus, by intervention of the CFP, the exemption of moderate rates, which had been cut, was restored in 2016, and we presented for the third time in the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u132	Mr President, you have outlived your time, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u133	Mr. President, I will conclude. As I was saying, we presented for the third time in the State budget the proposal to replace the possibility of accumulating wages with social benefits and we will pursue a plan to improve social benefits for these professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u134	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, José Artur Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yesterday a proposal was submitted by the Government for the provision of the prior visa to mobilise the means necessary for the acquisition of air resources, but also in particular for the purchase of personal fire protection equipment for firefighters in Portugal, in the next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u136	No, no! Being or not without a previous view is not the answer! You've never seen before!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u137	This year, we were well aware of the difficulties we had, at the beginning of the critical period of rural fires, because of the lack of a visa of the Court of Auditors in multiple contracts that were developed during the first quarter. Next year, under this State budget, new air media contracts will be developed by the Air Force and there may be some difficulty in obtaining the prior visas in time for us to have the effectiveness we want in this contract. But in particular, the National Civil Protection Authority will launch a competition, within this new budget, for the acquisition of personal protective equipment, so that no firefighter in Portugal ceases to have at least two individual protective equipment to combat rural fires. There will be no supplier in Portugal who has these equipment in stock and therefore the waiver of the previous visa is very important because this does not prevent the successive supervision and the visa of the Court of Auditors. I therefore call on this House to look at this proposal in order to simplify the work of the agents who need to hire these equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u138	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that this House approved yesterday the reactivation of the ProMuseus programme. It is a good step towards providing the country with a network of cultural intervention that strengthens decentralization and has consequences for civic intervention, promoting access to culture. Now, the Programme — which had been suspended by the right-wing government, is good to remember — can finally resume the functions for which it was created: renewing, modernising and valuing the Portuguese Network of Museums not dependent on the central administration, especially the municipal museums, so many of them condemned to a slow decline. It was worth insisting, and the Block will continue to insist that culture be entitled to its rightful place. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u140	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal which the Greens have advocated for discussion in plenary today is part of the set of proposals we have put forward for the railway and has as its main concern the need to pursue a sustainable transport policy, which goes through investment in public transport and, in particular, in rail. The proposal aims not only to contribute to an adequate response to the needs of citizens, but also to ensure that railways act as a real foundation for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for combating climate change — which must be addressed with responsibility — and also in what it can represent, with regard to the need to respond to the international climate change commitments which Portugal has made. We insist on the proposal, because our country even needs a railway sector that can respond to the needs of the people, to the environmental and energy challenges, which favors the development of the country and which can combat regional asymmetries. Now, while EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA) is the company that ensures the maintenance, revision and repair of rolling stock in Portugal, it will have to be looked at as a fundamental pillar of the operation of the public railway service, both at the level of safety and quality and availability of material. It has happened that this public enterprise, which is 100 % owned by the CP, has suffered in the last 10 years due to political de-investment options, a loss of more than one third of its employees and a great ageing of its staff. We know that, in August last year, the average age was around 55 years, a situation which leads to a brief expectation of new outputs, taking into account that many of these workers fall within the long careers of contributors. We well know that the current government has opened a contract for the hiring of more than 102 new workers for EMEF, but we also know that this number is absolutely insufficient, because it does not even restore the exits in recent years. Moreover, the accumulation of non-operational material, due to ageing in the yards, did not stop to flout—as in fact, the Greens were able to see during a working visit to the EMEF’s Official Pole in August last year—a situation which also resulted from the de-investment that led the CP not to buy rolling material for more than two decades. In addition, the new rolling stock, the purchase authorisation of which has now been issued, will not be available before 2020, and the current operational rolling stock will not be sufficient to respond to the service that CP should guarantee to populations, not even to cope with the increase of passengers that have been verified. In summary, with the number of current workers, EMEF cannot respond to the needs of CP, either in maintenance areas, either in the review or at the level of repair. For this reason, the Greens propose that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, the necessary procedures with a view to hiring more workers for EMEF. We now hope that the PS will reconsider its vote on this proposal, which is also an opportunity for the PS not to miss the train. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u142	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Assembly of the Republic approved yesterday, at the meeting of the Commission, 20 years later, the end of compulsory delivery of the special payment on account. This is great news for companies. But I would like to stress here in Parliament that there is a point in the Government's proposal that, having not been approved, it is important to share the relevance of its approval with the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The role of tax administration should be to simplify life for those who do what they do, to help those who, having difficulties in fulfilling, want to comply with, and to prevent behaviors that they may not possibly meet. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be aware that, of all the companies that pay the PEC, about two-thirds only pay the PEC. And we must also not forget that the PEC's genesis had to do with the fight against tax evasion. So, what we are requesting is that everyone who has the reporting obligations fulfilled, just click on the Finance Portal and ask for the waiver of their payment, because they have joined the simplified IRC,... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... that you no longer have minimum collection, or because you don't even need to do it. This is a measure that is included in risk prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u144	Mr. Secretary of State, he has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all I am calling on you to reconsider. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda, that of the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary. The voting on these standards is followed. First of all, let us check the quorum, for what I ask of the services that operate the electronic system. In the meantime, Secretary Pedro Alves will report the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Law Proposals No 164 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Tenth amendment to the legal regime applicable to electricity production, transport, distribution and marketing activities and second amendment to Decree-Law No 230 / 2008 of 27 November 2008 which falls to 6. the Commission, and 166 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy, which falls to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to draft Resolution Nos 1875 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to guarantee the right to a decent housing for refugees in Portugal, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1876 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — For the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Centre region, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1877 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government revise the criteria for admission to the Portuguese programme for all, which goes down to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u148	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 220 presences, to which 2 are added, of PSD Members Margarida Mano and Carlos Peixoto, making 222 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting on proposal 26 - C of the BE, adding Article 158. o -A — Reactivation of the ProMuseus Programme. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Under Article 159. o — Free of charge for school textbooks, we shall vote on proposal 810 - C of the PSD amending paragraph 1 of that Article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were rejected, votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We then vote on Article 159 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Under Article 166. o — Investment plan for hospitals, we shall vote on proposal 22 - C from BE, in the part where a paragraph 2 is added to that Article. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We also vote on proposal 22 - C from BE, in the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 166. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We continue to vote on proposal 22 - C from BE, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 166. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we could have taken this vote together! We shall vote on the proposal 845 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 166. o-D — Paediatric Center of Hospital Center of São João. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 528 - C of the Greens to add Article 175. o -A — Recruitment of workers for EMEF — Railway Equipment Maintenance Company S.A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 265 - C of the CFP to add Article 184. o-I — Discount on the costs of general economic interest of reimbursements to the National Electric System by the costs of maintaining the contractual balance declared as undue overcompensation. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 305 - C, the authorship of the CDS-PP, for the addition of Article 190. o -A— Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u149	It's a shame! Spoken word, dishonorable word!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u150	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 655 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 190. o -A — Reduction of ISP rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let us move forward to Article 196. o — Previous review of the Court of Auditors. We now vote on proposal 857 - C1, from the PS, in the part in which Article 196 (5) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on Article 196 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Let us turn to Article 197. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Let us begin by voting on proposal 851 - C from the CDS-PP, adding Article 12 ( 9 ). the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens and votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We are now voting on proposal 474 - C1, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part where paragraph 11 is added to Article 13. the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 478 - C1, from the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces Article 72 ( 1 ( e ). the IRS Code. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 787 - C of the BE, adding a point ( d) to Article 72 ( 12 ). the IRS Code. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, BE and PCP, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u152	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u153	Mr President, it is to inform that I will deliver a statement of vote on proposal 478 - C from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to Article 203. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. We now vote on proposal 450 - C2 from the PSD, in the part in which Article 87 ( 1 ) is amended. the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the same proposal 450 - C2 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 87 (2) is amended. the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP were rejected.]] We now vote on proposal 9 - C1, from BE, in the part where it amends the table in Article 87 ( 1 ). o -A of the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We are again voting on proposal 9 - C1 from BE, in the part in which it amends Article 87 ( 2 ) ( a ). o -A of the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We also vote on BE's proposal 9 - C1, in the part in which Article 87 ( 2 ( b ) is amended. o -A of the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall then vote on BE's proposal 9 - C2, in part by adding a point ( c) to Article 87 ( 2 ). o -A of the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on proposal 302 - C of the authorship of the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 88(3)(a ) is deleted. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The vote on Article 88 ( a) ( 3 ). the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. that of the bill, is thus damaged. We shall continue with the vote on proposal 302 - C submitted by the CDS-PP in the part in which Article 88(3)(c ) is deleted. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The vote on Article 88 (3) ( c ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. We turn to the vote on proposal 417 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 106 ( 11 ( e ) is amended. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 106 ( 11 ( ( e ) shall be adversely affected. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. We turn to the vote on proposal 417 - C, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 106 ( 15 ) is amended. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 106 ( 15 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 203. The proposal of the law. We moved on to Article 209. o — Amendment to the Value Added Tax Code. We proceed with the vote on the proposal 195 - C, tabled by the NAP, amending Article 9 ( 1 ). the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP were rejected, votes against the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall continue with the vote on Article 9 ( 15 ( b ). the VAT code referred to in Article 209. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u155	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u156	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u157	Mr President, these votes are relatively complex because what we are voting on is Rule 209. it has implications with which we will vote further in Article 211. This vote was adversely affected by amendments to Article 211. which were approved yesterday. It is obvious that the sequence of the articulation does not allow this to be perceived, but this vote is impaired, with the amendments made in Article 211. o
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u158	Then it should have been removed from the vote script. Does everyone accept this interpretation? [[Pause.]] There is no objection, this vote is not taken. We moved on to Article 210. o — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code. We shall vote on proposal 388 - C2 by the Greens in the part in which it amends item 2.1 of List I of the VAT code. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 747 - C2, submitted by the PS, in the part where paragraph 2 is added to Article 210. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Let's move on to Article 211. o — Addition to List I annexed to the VAT Code. We shall vote jointly on proposal 275 - C1, submitted by the CDS-PP, and proposal 759 - C2, submitted by the PSD, in the part where they delete item 2.32 of List I annexed to the VAT Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u160	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u161	Mr President, only to clarify this question: with regard to Article 211. we will vote only on the proposals that relate to the VAT of culture. This is all we are voting on, we are not voting on the other proposals. As for the others, the vote taken yesterday in the Commission is taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u162	So that is what I said, now confirmed by Mr João Oliveira. We shall then vote together on proposal 275 - C1, submitted by the CDS-PP, and proposal 759 - C2, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which they delete item 2.32 of List I annexed to the VAT Code in Article 211 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and votes against the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP were adopted.]] Thus, the vote on item 2.32 of List I of the VAT code in Article 211 ( 1 ). that of the bill, it's damaged. We turn to the vote on proposal 46 - C, tabled by BE, amending Rule 211 ( 1 ) of List I of the VAT Code. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote together on proposals 275 - C3, submitted by the CDS-PP, 548 - C1, submitted by the PCP, and 774 - C2, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which they amend items 2.33 of List I annexed to the VAT code set out in Article 211. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and votes against the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u163	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u164	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u165	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u166	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u167	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u168	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u169	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u170	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 494 - C, tabled by BE, amending Rule 211 ( 1 ) of List I, as annexed to the VAT code. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 673 - C, tabled by the NAP, amending Rule 211 ( 1 ) of List I as annexed to the VAT code. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP votes were rejected and the Greens and the NAP votes were voted against.]] We turn to vote 675 - C, tabled by the PS, amending Rule 211 ( 1 ) of List I, which is annexed to the VAT code. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to vote, it was rejected, subject to vote, subject to vote, and subject to vote, with vote against PSD, of BE, CDS-PP, of the PCP, of Os Verdes, of the PAN and of 41 PS (Alexandre Quinta, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendonça Mendes, Ana Passos, André Pino Baptistes Batista, Antonio Sales Sales, Ambassador of Vasconcelos, Antonio Sales of the PCPP, of the PCP, of the Greens, of the PAN, of the PDP, of the PSD, of BE, of the CDS-PP, of the PCPP, of the PCP, of the Peoples of The Greens, of the PAN and of the PS (Alexanderlessandre Quintae, of the PAN and of the PS (Alexanderlessond with vote vote, of the People People's of the PSDP, of the PDP, of the PDP, of the CDSDP, of the CDS-PP, of the PDP of the PDP, of the PPPPPPPP, of the PPPPPPPP, of the People of the O O O O O O O O O OS, of the PP, of the PP, of the PPPP, of the People of the PP People of the PP Greens of the PP Greens of the PP Greens of the PP, of the P People of the P People of the P People of the P vote and of the P vote in every vote and of the P vote in every vote, of the P vote, of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote and of the P vote in everyestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestestest vote I vote I vote of the PP vote of the PP vote of the PP vote I and of the PP away away away away away away away away away away away away of the PP away away away away away away away of the PPPPPP]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u171	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u172	To what effect, Mr Ascenso Simões?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u173	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u175	Mr President, it is to indicate that yesterday I made a statement of vote in the Commission. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u176	All right. Mr. Luís Soares...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u177	Mr President, I did not know and I think that none of the Members know — this information was given to me by the Services yesterday — that the same statement of vote on a proposal adopted in COFMA (Commission on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernisation) serves in plenary if the proposal is a lawyer. That is why I said I had already delivered the vote statement yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. We were elucidated. Mr. Luís Soares, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u179	Mr President, to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Helena Roseta, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u181	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this proposal and on the previous proposal which had a similar objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u182	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr André Pinotes Batista, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u183	Mr President, would you like to put a question to the Bureau: are there any explanations of vote on lawyers or statements of vote on the overall final vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u184	They are not lawyers, what we are doing is voting on articles from the State budget and, therefore, statements of vote can be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u185	Mr President, thank you very much for the clarification. in that case, I shall then present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Fernando Anastácio, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u187	Mr President, it is also to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr José de Matos Correia, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u189	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u190	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the vote on item 2.33 of List I annexed to the VAT code as set out in Article 211 ( 1 ). that of the bill, it's damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 211 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD and the PCP, the vote against the NAP and the abstentions from the CDS-PP, BE and the Greens.]] We shall then vote on proposal 55 - C, from the Left Block, to eliminate Article 211 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u191	Mr President, proposals 275 - C2, from the CDS-PP, and 548 - C2, from the CFP, in the part in which they delete Article 211 (2). it can be voted in conjunction with proposal 55 - C, of the Left Block, because they are the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u192	Let us then vote together on proposals 55 - C from BE, 275 - C2, from the CDS-PP, and 548 - C2, from the CFP, to eliminate Article 211 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the CDS-PP, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN voted against the PS.]] The vote on Article 211 ( 2 ). The bill is damaged. We turn to Article 221. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes We shall vote on proposal 148 - C of the CFP, which shall be added to Article 89 ( 1 ). the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, BE, CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We have reached the end of the second item of our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u193	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u194	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u195	Mr President, with regard to BE's proposal 26 - C, to add an article 158. o -A, the first proposal we voted on, I would like to confirm that our sense of vote was that of abstention. I am not sure what the vote the Bureau has taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u196	In the first vote, the PSD vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u197	Mr President, then we would like to change it to abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u198	All right, get registered. It does not alter the outcome of the vote. I would ask Vice-President Jorge Lacão to take the Chair at this third item on the agenda. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u199	Mrs. Members, we move on to the third item on the agenda, with the continuation of the discussion in the speciality of the Proposal for a Law No 156 / XIII ( 4. ( a ) ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. As the parliamentary committees are informed, we will continue the debate now under Chapter III — Local taxes — with Article 228. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u200	Mr President, the additional to IMI on luxury heritage is that measure that the PSD and CDS said it would affect the middle class—do you remember? It has reached less than 16 000 taxpayers with a wealth of more than EUR 1 million. It is as they said, that would lead to the escape of external investment. Just not. Instead, it proved to be a very fair measure which ensured the financing of social security. So what we propose is that half a percentage increase for real estate with tax value above 2 million euros. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u201	You now have the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose a new step from the additional to the IMI on the highest value heritage and propose the reduction of housing charges for families by reducing the IMI rate to 0, 4 %. The difficulties in access to housing in our country require a decisive State intervention and in this Budget we have brought proposals to strengthen investment in housing. We have proposed that the State assume its responsibility for resettlement, ensuring full funding to allocate a decent housing to families living in precarious housing. We have proposed strengthening the funds of the Porta 65 Youth programme so that young people who meet the criteria for allocation of support are not excluded because there are no money. We have proposed that the clearance compensation, already provided for in the law, should not be taxed under IRS. In housing policy, there is no need for tax incentives to large owners and real estate funds. Does anyone think that real estate and speculative funds would not pay a few million euros to receive only a few euros if the PSD and BE proposals were approved? Obviously not! Real estate speculation is not combated by tax incentives. What is needed in housing is a direct intervention by the State in promoting and making public housing available to respond to housing shortages. Housing performs a social function and, as such, it should be used as a priority to supply housing needs. Real estate speculation is combated through the adoption of a land policy, lease policy, public housing provision, where the State has a decisive and direct role in solving the problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u203	We turn to Article 229. o — Legislative authorisations in the field of the promotion of the rehabilitation and use of degraded or devolved buildings. Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u204	Mr President, the CDS presents a proposal for this article with a very simple objective. It has been understood that when someone decides, in his own permanent housing, that is to say, in his own home, to rent rooms, for example, students, for this reason, have a penalty: he loses the exemption of IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions). The CDS comes here to try to solve this problem and simply say the following: who has an exemption because he bought a house for his own home to live there and decides to rent rooms, for example, to students, should not therefore be penalized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u205	On this article, you have the floor to Ms. Secretary of State for Housing, Ana Pinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u206	The state is currently making the greatest effort it has made in recent decades in offering and promoting public housing supply for the most deprived families and affordable costs. The effort is being made not only by relaunching the social housing policy for the most deprived under the first right, such as by mobilising all your returned real estate park or available with the ability to adapt to the accessible housing under the National Building Rehabilitation Fund (FNRE), so that there is in fact more offer of renting at affordable costs for those families who today cannot bear market costs. Nevertheless, the State believes that this effort is not enough and that we need more. It is known that we are currently experiencing a housing crisis and that it is particularly serious in some areas. We are also aware that the lack of supply of buildings when they exist and without cause justifying it, being a practice which has as a consequence artificial price rise, competes, when it does not cause or aggravates, for the difficulty in access to housing. As housing is a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right, it is a duty, taken by this government, to take measures to ensure the exercise of that right — and here clearly lies the public interest of this measure. In view of the increase in real estate market prices, with particular impact in some areas of the country and with strong implications for reducing access to housing, a more active action by the State is justified in promoting more supply, in particular as regards degraded or returned buildings. The legislative authorization presented thus aims to increase the effectiveness of existing mechanisms for the criminalization of returnees in urban pressure areas, acting in the classification of the urban buildings and autonomous fractions returned, correcting the difficulties in their operationalization relative to the signs of unemployment. The legislative authorization also acts in the possibility of municipalities to make a significant increase in the penalisation of the IMI (municipal property tax) in returned buildings, with the progressive increase of this rate up to a maximum of 12 times its value. This penalty is restricted to areas of urban pressure, which will be defined in the legal diploma subject to authorisation by means of objective indicators related to housing market prices, family incomes or housing shortages. It is also proposed to improve the legal conditions for intervention to replace the owner in order to carry out coercive works, contributing to the provision on the market of existing buildings currently returned and/or degraded, ensuring minimum conditions of safety, comfort and health. To that end, it is crucial to improve the legal regime in force, acting in areas where there are more difficulties and which have been real obstacles to the rehabilitation of the building park, the security and the improvement of the living conditions of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u207	With all sympathy for those who are not familiar with the legislative and parliamentary procedures, as is the case with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you too. Members of the Government, when speaking, should initially address the Bureau and the Members of the Government present and, where appropriate, the members of the Government present. We turn to Chapter IV — Tax Benefits. To intervene on Article 233. the — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits — the words of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS are addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CDS once again presents in this State Budget a proposal from the Forest Management Account (CGF) which constitutes a tax benefit to those who invest in the forest. This year the government has a tax benefit, but only those who turn the forest in a grouped way. In our view, it is good that there is a joint management of the forest, but not just these forest producers to be benefited. in this sense, the CDS presents again the Forest Management Account which is a tax benefit, at the head of IRC, and also in the Tax Benefit Statute, to producers who use part of the money they receive from the sales of their forest in good forest management and forest re-investment. In fact, it would be very good if the government did not limit tax benefits and tax incentives only to those who manage the grouped forest, in particular to forest investment funds, but which would allow the medium and larger producers who also want to make such investment to enjoy them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering Chapter V — Procedure, taxation procedure and other provisions. Article 238. — Amendment to the Code of Procedure and to the Court of First Instance, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS presents three simplification proposals, which have been here for some time and is now presenting them again. The first relates to the current account, in the sense that individuals can make compensation for their claims with the debts that the Tax Authority or the State has on the individuals, in order to be able to compensate for one thing or another. Another proposal is to establish a mechanism that prevents simultaneous penhors from being made in the bank balances of individuals who are held with multiple accounts, without being able to move them, already being the exact amount guaranteed only by one penhor. This is therefore a proposal that also helps people. Finally, the CDS submits a proposal to prohibit citations and notifications from being made to the personal financial area of each individual. It does not make sense that people have to be notified and quoted and that lawyers can also be notified to their personal area in the field of finance. In the field of finance, your personal area is for that very reason, it is personal, and it cannot be used for work purposes, for professional purposes. That's why it has to be just that: people. That's all we're proposing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u211	We have moved to Chapter VI — Other provisions of a fiscal nature, in particular Article 244. o — Other provisions of a fiscal nature. Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u212	Mr President, tax amnesties known as RERT (Exceptional Regime of Tax Regularization ) were shameful regimes which allowed the legal whitening of tax fraud and other economic crimes. As if that were not enough, the Tax Authority does not have access to information that would allow it to investigate not these but adjacent operations. Portugal is not a cleptocracy, but has cleptocrats. A RRRT cannot be its guarantee of impunity and therefore the Left Block presents a measure guaranteeing the Tax Authority access to information — obviously not violating the law of the RRRT, which unfortunately it is not possible to reverse — which at least gives it the means to combat fraud and economic crime in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u213	On this article, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, by her voice, the Left Block brings an interesting proposal to plenary. I would like to point out that the issue is not as linear as the honourable Member puts it and is not as linear as it is often placed in the public square. When we are talking about these special tax regulation regimes, the three regimes that existed were not the same, there are great differences. The first two, in spite of everything, demanded the repatriation of the capitals and also had to know what was the underlying scheme. And it is also not entirely true what is often said in public opinion, as if it were an absolute truth, that there is an obligation to destroy documents. And it is not entirely true, because this obligation does not come under the law; what follows from the law is the obligation of documents to be in Banco de Portugal for 10 years. And then the gates do not say whether, at the end of 10 years, these documents have to be destroyed or if they have to return to the Tax Authority. But it is true that this issue raises a question about the principle of confidence in the State, which, in my view, must not be ignored either. from a practical point of view, I would like to add that we should be aware that the effectiveness of this proposal is also very limited. It is very limited, firstly, by the expiry of liquidations, because we are talking about long-term tax facts, but it is also very limited because looking at past schemes to see for the future does not bring us as much advantage as, for example, doing what other jurisdictions have done. Other jurisdictions have made identical regimes but have demanded what is now being proposed up, which has made money-gathering not so much because of these tax regulations but because of the definition of these schemes. Therefore, the Government's intervention on this point is in the sense that things are not black and white, things are complex, there are issues that are rightly posed by the principle of confidence in the State. Nor is the issue of the destruction of the elements absolute. What is needed is to act with the necessary precautions so that, by guaranteeing all the rights enshrined in the law, expectations are not too high on what can effectively be achieved with this initiative. But if it is approved, we will be here to work on the fight against fraud and tax evasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u215	We turn to Article 253. The proposal of the law. Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the imposition of tolls in the Algarve by the previous government and the continuation of them by this government was a mistake and it remains a very serious mistake for the Algarve and an unacceptable scandal and shame. In fact, road fatality has been triggered by more than 10,000 accidents per year, with many fatalities, many serious injuries, and always growing. Indeed, it is still an obscenity that the Government has to pay around EUR 40 million to the private dealer every year. It is the largest economic, social and financial crime in the Algarve. And the gentlemen. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS now have the opportunity to redeem themselves, approving the proposal presented here by the Bloc to remove the tolls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u217	Article 255 is hereby followed. The proposal of the law. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to energy, this budget is "a lot of raisins and a lot of grapes". They announced the reduction of VAT, but after all, the reduction is only 0, 80 €, and only for those with counters of 3, 45 kVA, to such power that, according to ERISE, it is not suitable for families with three or more members. In other words, « the mountain bet a mouse» or, better still, the Block « swallowed a toad ». [[BE's protests.]] In view of this flop, the Government in its usual election tone reported that the electricity bill would be reduced, not because of the reduction in VAT, but through the application of additional revenue resulting from the reduction in the exemption of the ISP ( tax on oil and energy products) to the electro-produce centres and the channelling of the EESC's revenue ( Extraordinary contribution on the Energy Sector ) for the reduction of the energy tariff of 2019. What the Government has not explained or told the Portuguese is that these reductions do not come from any structural reform, they originate in extraordinary revenues, they are volatile and uncertain. The application of such reductions to a single tariff exercise is only a light fire, a short-sighted electoralist measure that does not contribute to the sustainability of the reduction of the tariff deficit. The Government, as it announces an intention to invest in the decarbonisation of the economy, proposes the EESC's extension to renewable energy producers in an unsanitary contradiction. How is it possible to encourage decarbonisation if we penalise renewable energies? This is also an enlargement which represents a double taxation to a sector which has already paid EUR 30 million per year since 2014 for the reduction of tariff debt. But the Block goes further and proposes enlargement of the EESC to wind power producers, whose licenses have been awarded by international public tender, calling into question Portugal's international credibility in relation to foreign investment. The PSD is in favour of the decarbonization of the economy and the fulfilment of the environmental goals assumed by Portugal, objectives that are generally adversely affected by this Budget. Without prejudice, we propose that at least any additional funds originated, either in reducing the exemption of ISP to electro-producers or in the EESC's revenue, be fully applied to reducing the multiannual tariff deficit. Only in this way will it be possible to sustain the reduction of the debt of the energy sector. The government no longer does but use extraordinary revenues for current management, without reducing the tariff deficit, without tackling this problematic deficit arising from the 2006 political decisions. The sustainability of the electrical system will never be achieved and we will be delaying problems for the years to come. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u219	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u220	Mr President, the Government has included in the State budget the extension of the EESC to renewable energy producers and accounted for EUR 30 million in the expected revenue of this contribution. But the bill maintained the exemption of the power stations awarded by competition, and this is a hole where half of this revenue will escape. The Block alerted the government to this hole. The Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition has come here to Parliament to promise that he will correct this failure in the proposal. It was the intention of the Government to meet the 30 million euros of EESC revenue it had provided for, but the only proposal that continues on the table to correct this error and that the revenue could be EUR 30 million, as foreseen by the Government, is the proposal of the Left Block. Therefore, the Socialist Party needs to know whether it is fulfilling its commitment to approve a modest contribution from the renewable sector or whether it votes to maintain a hole that takes half of the planned revenue and shows that the Government never wanted to charge the EUR 30 million it entered in the Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u221	Still on Article 255. that of the bill, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Eídio Guerreiro, I have spent many hours here, over the last two days, with pleasure, but there is one part which, I confess, I do not like, is to be hearing systematically an idea and an adjective of lies, lies and lies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, let's go to the points. I challenge you, Mr President, — you are such a customer of the media agencies — to identify a statement by some government member to announce any reduction in the electricity tax rate! One, sir! The Government has never expressed this intention. What we say we do. In preparing this State budget, as regards energy taxation, we are very clear on what we are proposing. We propose a legislative authorisation so that we can reduce a component of electricity bill, which is the fixed component, thus reducing the total weight of taxes between 10 and 20 %. He spoke today about the EESC and the need for sustainability of the tariff deficit injections. Mr President, I do not like to do this, but unfortunately I have to tell you that during the other government, there was not an EESC euro that would be reverted to the energy system sustainability fund! One euro, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And Mr. Secretary of State John Leon, who you repeatedly accuse of being captivating here—the captivator does not die, because the captivator dies accuse Mr. Minister of Finance—it was even the only Secretary of State of the Budget who approved the transfer of access funds to the energy sector sustainability fund, Mr. this year, between the environmental fund and the EESC's funds, we will also transfer to what ERSE had done in its calculations EUR 190 million. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we are creating the conditions for the sustainability of this measure, so that the EESC will be paid every year, Mr. That is what we are doing, that is our commitment and we hope to fulfill that same commitment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely talking about lies and falsehood. Mr Jorge Costa, with all the appreciation I have for you, we have a long working process, which I will not mention publicly, which is very important. Mr President, in order to comply with the principle of equality, we have to deal with different things which are actually different and, in the matter of awarding licences by invitation to tender, there are differences in what concerns renewable energy licences. There are competitions in which, in the book of charges, a counterpart was required for the Innovation Support Fund ( FAI ), which in practice is also partly one of the EESC's objectives. Therefore, from the point of view of legal certainty, it was important that this solution had no risk of double taxation or double contribution. Mr President, I can only tell you this: you know that we have always been available to find a solution that, with legal certainty, would also allow you to look at what is a specific reality, the reality of renewable competitions. Mr President, yes, we will extend the special contribution of the energy sector to renewable energy and thereby reduce the electricity bill for Portuguese. That is the compromise of the majority, that is what we are going to fulfil. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u223	Still on Article 255. the proposal for a law, has the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u224	Mr President, even in the field of energy, the Greens wanted to highlight a proposal presented in the State budget, which relates to the incorporation of biofuels in transport. We believe that we have commitments with regard to the reduction of greenhouse gases and that this incorporation should not diminish, as is stated in the State Budget Bill. In our perspective, this incorporation should increase, until we have commitments made by 2020 regarding the incorporation of biofuels in transport by 10 %. We should not, therefore, return, but take steps to achieve this goal. That is the proposal the Greens put forward. We understand the argument that these biofuels should not result from dedicated production, compromising the area of food production, but rather from the exploitation of used oils, which is the result of paragraph 2 of the proposal that we present. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u225	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the truth, what happens is that — and I am addressing the Secretary of State — the Left Block, following supposed meetings of understanding with the Government around the Budget, has come to announce to the country that there would be a reduction in the VAT rate. These are the facts, which you have deliberately left behind in the media and in public opinion for weeks. Did they repent? Good, Mr. Secretary of State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u227	We now turn to Article 258. the, for which there are several inscriptions. Mrs. Susana Amador from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, investment in civil protection has been a priority of this government and the Socialist Party, and has been a constant one. in this State budget we have in this area an investment of 159, 6 million euros and in the previous budget was 148, 7 million euros, far away from the 128 million euros of the 2014 budget, the PSD and the CDS. Alongside this national investment, we need a more well-connected, modernized, trained municipal civil protection system that can meet the new paradigms of civil protection in terms of climate change, increasing risks and permanent adversity. in this perspective, a municipal contribution of civil protection aims to guarantee municipalities a more stable allocation to respond to the increasing and increased competences of municipalities in this area. It is essential to consolidate the protection in the municipal level. Therefore, the Socialist Party and the PS Parliamentary Group will present a proposal for an amendment which aims to extend the municipal civil protection contribution also to public service providers, including dealers who are generating multiple risks. With the amendment we propose to this article, we stress the burden of charges in groups that effectively generate more risk and reduce the weight of other passive subjects. So let us meet the concerns of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities which, in its opinion, considers this recipe to be urgent and pressing. If we want to change the paradigm, we need to consolidate municipal civil protection to, above all, have a stronger system in relief, protection and prevention. This is our proposal, this is our amendment, we expect them to follow us in the same way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u229	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese are subject to the greatest tax burden of all time, and when we thought it was no longer possible to invent any tax, no tax or tax, here the government surprises us again and invents another tax, the so-called civil protection fee. In fact, it's a tax-covered tax because, in fact, it's not the same. But after they invent the additional to the IMI supplement, they still invent this way of charging the owners, clearly showing them that this government does not like the owners or the property. In fact, it is another burden on the authorities and owners in relation to an essential function of the rule of law, which is the security of the people and the territory, but the others are paid, deresponsibility of their obligations. The PSD cannot align in this tax sack, in this de-responsibility, and will naturally vote against this request for authorisation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u231	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now presenting two proposals aimed at solving two of the main problems faced by forces and security services. The first, proposal 380 - C, addresses the lack of staff, the cross-sectional problem to all security forces and services, where the prison guard is included. With this proposal it is intended that the Government define a multiannual timetable for training and admission of professionals, not only to meet the operational needs of forces and services, but also to promote the renewal of the frameworks of these same security forces and services. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the second proposal, 565 - C, aims to include in this State budget a standard that points to the timely implementation of the investments provided for in the Programming Act. There is indeed a need to comply with the law, to move from role to concrete reality, and investments must be implemented as soon as possible. The proposals presented here correspond to these two problems, which are very well-identified, many meanings in forces and security services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u233	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block proposes the elimination of Article 258. that of the bill, which authorizes the government to create the so-called municipal civil protection fee, which, in fact, is an attempt to pass what has already been plunged by the Constitutional Court in three different municipalities. Being important and recognizing the needs of civil protection in our cities, we think this is not the method of doing. Therefore, in our perspective, civil protection matters should be seen as a need for the whole country, and there should be a principle of solidarity which implies that public investment is reflected in State budgets, so that they provide civil protection of the necessary means and resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u235	We now turn to Article 261. the proposed law— Amendment to the Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 2 January. Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims of domestic violence are — and well! — provided by law with moderate rates in the National Health Service. However, the same does not happen to particularly vulnerable victims. Indeed, it is not understood that victims particularly vulnerable by age, health status or disability and victims of violent or particularly violent crime are not also exempt by law from the payment of moderate rates. It is true that the Statute of the Victim has provided for this possibility, but it is also true that it would bear it where that right would be effective has never been published. To ensure equal treatment, the Left Block proposes the extension of the exemption of moderate rates to victims of sexual violence and especially vulnerable victims as defined in the Victim Statute. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u237	Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the protection of workers and the strengthening of their rights are an objective of the PS. It is the mark of this Budget and the objective of this amendment to the law. It is unacceptable, it is unfair that since the 2015 amendment of the previous government, emergency workers had been prevented from accessing the wage guarantee fund. Workers could not request payment of the wage guarantee fund of their claims simply because the former Government did not have a reasonable time limit for access to the application. This proposal by the Socialist Party extends the deadline to require the wage guarantee fund, restores justice, guarantees access, and therefore protects the Socialist Party, workers and strengthens its rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u239	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Vissgold is a privileged tool in the world of economic crime and corruption. In addition, in Portugal, the gold visas have been a privileged instrument to feed real estate speculation. Since its establishment by the right-wing government, only a small part of the gold visas assigned have been used to create jobs. The purchase of luxury real estate is the only direct target intended by the elites who buy Portuguese citizenship. Direct target because, indirectly, what these elites are looking for is a gateway to the European space and sometimes too often a safe-conduct that hides the criminal origins of their fortunes. On behalf of a country that takes itself seriously, on behalf of a country that does not treat rich immigrants with subservience and poor immigrants with cold rigor, on behalf of a country that is actually engaged in the fight against corruption and against real estate speculation, it is time to put an end to the golden visas in Portugal. That is the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u241	We turn to Article 269. the proposal of law— Amendment to Decree-Law No 195 / 95 of 28 July. Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers of the rocks are subject to a hard life, to a difficult life, to very demanding working conditions, unhealthy conditions, conditions that we can hardly imagine. They are the real stone workers, which extend throughout the country, particularly in my district, the Port district. For these workers, the Socialist Party has found a solution that combines dignity with its contribution career, applied to the specificity of the hardness of its work and, therefore, we present a proposal to ensure that they have a special regime of access not only to the reform but also to the disability pension. In this way, we guarantee justice, balance and also that these workers will not be forgotten with this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u243	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Budget we have managed to ensure that the workers of the quarry and the extraction already have a guarantee of justice for the penosity of their work, but it is also important — and on the proposal of the Left Block — the equalization of the workers of the mills to a regime that exists for workers of the ores and stones, which is a regime with a aggravated peosity in their work. We are therefore faced with a measure of great justice for several workers who have claimed it for many years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u245	Mr Jorge Machado, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to congratulate the CFP Parliamentary Group on the discussion and approval of proposals concerning workers of the lavarries and stone paving and stone processing, which will finally have access to an early retirement scheme. The PCP has been monitoring this matter for about 20 years, in the Porto district and in other districts of the country, and has been fighting for a regime in anticipation of reform that is entirely fair, because these workers die in advance due to occupational diseases. This achievement of the CFP Parliamentary Group is one aspect which we want to highlight here as being of extreme justice for these workers, and we would not fail to point out the satisfaction of the CFP Parliamentary Group on this proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u247	We turn to Article 278. the proposal of law—Additional to Decree-Law No 123 / 2010 of 12 November. Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the moderate rates are not moderate. They are, yes, an obstacle to users' access to health care. We do not deny the progress that has been made with the reduction of moderate rates and the extension of exemptions, but it is not enough. We therefore present a proposal that exempts chronic patients from moderate rates. We do so because we recognize that chronic patients are susceptible to the development of other diseases and that only by exempting them from this payment is that they avoid their burden on access to health care. With this proposal, we intend to improve access to health care for patients with chronic diseases and restore a right that has been removed from them by the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u249	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u250	Mr. President, residence permits for investment are today a reality in more than a dozen countries of the European Union. A reality that, since its creation, has allowed Portugal to attract more than EUR 4000 million by granting an estimated value of 6000 residence permits, value accumulated in six years compared to the annual value in Spain. Our proposals aim to strengthen the transparency and traceability of capital and individuals so that the proven advantages of this institute can no longer be perverted, thus contributing to a more transparent common space, effectively combating money laundering and the circumvention of capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing, in our specialty, the Maps contained in the bill. We start with Map II — Expenditure on integrated services, by organic classification, specified by chapters. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party would like to emphasise the follow-up to the proposal made by the Greens to ensure that the funds are strengthened to ensure the 25 million euros needed to meet the objectives and objectives set in support of the arts. It is a matter for which there has been an increase in the funds available. They are not, we recognize, the money we would like to have and the ideal money to ensure the strengthening of the sector, but they are clearly those which are currently possible to mobilize to ensure the new rules and the follow-up of this area. For this reason, with regard to proposal 1 - C, tabled by the CFP on the same subject, we cannot follow it, since it proposes a reinforcement which goes beyond the indispensable amount of EUR 25 million and which, at the moment, obviously does not disagree with the objective set, it is not possible to caution. Therefore, at this stage, the Greens' proposal is the one that will deserve our support to ensure this objective, in a consolidated way, to strengthen support in this particular area, i.e. support for cultural activities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u253	We move on to Map VII — Expenditure on autonomous services and funds, by organic classification, specifying the overall expenditure of each service and fund. Mr. Luís Graça, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this year, the PSD has returned — it is always at this time of the Budget — to the same stage of the custom over the Algarve, that there is no investment in the Algarve region. They say so in the Algarve, but curiously then they do not carry out proposals in Parliament. They say the budget of culture will be smaller, but it's false. It will grow 2, 8 % compared to 2018, to which it will add 1, 5 million euros from the 365 Algarve programme. They say that social institutions will not have Community support, but it is false. Even within days, a notice of the Algarve PO will be opened for the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ). But it is not only false, it is also hypocritical, because they hide that it was the President of the PSD / Algarve, then President of the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ), to define the priorities of the Algarve PO and to leave a very residual value for the social area. And they say that health will have less money in the Algarve, which is also fake. First, because with this amendment to Map VII, the PS Parliamentary Group ensures that the Algarve University Hospital Center will have more money this year than it had in 2018. And also because the Government's budget proposal already provided an additional EUR 8 million for ARS Algarve compared to the previous year. That is, we have some PSD Members saying one thing in Lisbon and another in Faro. We're already used to saying something and doing the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u255	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, every year the pharmaceutical industry removes medicines from the market that are essential to people. It removes them, not because they are not effective, but because they have ceased to have commercial interests. They are worth little, they yield little, they no longer give the profit margin that the pharmaceutical industry or therefore withdraw us from the market, cause stock rupture, harm people. The Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals in Portugal has the capacity to produce these medicines. However, it needs investment, and that is what the Left Block proposes in the amendment to this map: the reinforcement of EUR 16, EUR 75 million of the Military Laboratory in order to make the investment it needs, in order to produce the medicines that the population needs in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u257	Mr. José Carlos Barros, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members have spoken here about the investment for the Algarve and, in fact, what happens again in the State budget is not exclusively in the Algarve, is an investment problem in the public services we know and which is widespread but, specifically in the case of the Algarve, it is obvious above all this difference between the announcements of millions of investments that have been made in the region and reality. The railway service has virtually collapsed, with the seaweed to see the trains pass; health is in a dramatic situation, with less than EUR 20 million of investment to the University Hospital Centre of Algarve ; there is no investment in port areas. This is therefore the real picture of what this State budget provides for the Algarve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u259	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wanted to talk to you about Article 121. the State budget, which has provisions on the ceiling on debt issuance by the State. It is included in this article that there is an absolute ceiling of direct indebtedness of the State, which finances its needs. These requirements in the Budget presented to this House are EUR 4525 million in respect of the Central Administration deficit and about EUR 5000 million in relation to the net acquisition of assets. Therefore, the debt limit consistent with the proposed budget can never be less than EUR 9525 million. The proposals adopted in the specialty mean an increase in expenditure and a reduction in revenue, so they also change those which are the financing needs. The proposal submitted by the PSD proposes a debt limit of EUR 9100 million, limits that is less than EUR 9525 million, which are consistent with the State budget submitted. It is an inconsistent proposal, it is an incoherent proposal and it is a proposal that continues to convey the idea that debt may be reduced by reducing the debt limit, rather than consolidating itself, so that debt can be reduced. It is to insist on the mistakes of the past, it is to think that it is possible to get worse not by making a diet or taking care of the diet but rather by buying the fact two numbers below and then trying to get us into that fact. That is not the case, and that is an idea voted for failure. It is an idea to insist on blind cuts, which always end with huge increases in taxes and amending budgets. This was the case in 2012, 2013 and 2014. But if what the PSD wanted in this Budget was even further reducing the debt, then it had to propose more cuts in expenditure and it had to propose increases in revenue. He didn't. He came to propose more expenditure, came to propose less revenue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u261	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u262	...and at the same time, it proposes less deficit and less debt. I'd say it's arithmetically impossible. I'd say that's not a budget discussion, it's writing a letter to Santa Claus. The PSD presented proposals that would probably cost more than EUR 1000 million and came to propose a reduction in the indebtedness limit of EUR 900 million. It doesn't make sense and it's not coherent! The difference we have in the Budget between the debt limit and the net needs is EUR 500 million, which constitutes a reasonable margin that allows for transparent and efficient debt management and helps reduce interest expenditure. This Government's commitment to this 2019 Budget is the same as 2016, 2017 and 2018. We promise and we will fulfill, and also, in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u263	With regard to Article 1. the proposal for a law — Subject, Mr Duarte Pacheco, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing the process of assessing the proposal from the State budget and, at the end of these weeks, all of us. Members of the Government, allow me to tell you that we continue with a bad government budget. It is a bad budget, because it continues to slow down the growth of the economy; it brings more public debt— plus EUR 3200 million, according to government figures; it keeps the tax burden in record values — plus EUR 1500 million will be charged to the Portuguese next year; it does not promote savings; it does not have real support for companies; it has measures corresponding to frauds between what is announced and what is expressed in the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u266	Few improvements have resulted from this parliamentary process. It is true that we have more justice in applying VAT to cultural activities, that we have a new opportunity for dialogue between the State and the teachers, that we have achieved the failure to exacerbate the taxation of business service cars, that we avoid the emergence of new rates, either for civil protection or for forest producers. And this is against the will of the Socialist Party and against the will of the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u267	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u268	But, in the essential aspects, the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens were with the Socialist Party, not reforming the country, without vision of the future, giving the reels and pirouettes necessary for everything to remain in it, whether in IRC (tax on the income of the public), whether in the tax on fuels, whether in the limitation of captives — the passion of Dr. Centeno and also yours — whether in the bill of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u269	That's more of a waste now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u270	Therefore, this is not just the PS Budget, it is the PS Budget, the Block, the PCP and the Greens! But it is not ours, therefore, for PSD, Portugal and the Portuguese deserve much more and much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u271	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u272	Mr President, this is neither the PSD budget nor the CDS budget — not short pensions, not short wages, even guarantees extraordinary increase in pensions, social justice. [[PSD protests.]] It is certainly not a right-wing budget. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] It is not a Left Block Budget,... [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u273	...because it is still subject to a deficit that restricts public services. But it is a Budget that has the hand of the Left Block when it returns money to people, when it guarantees future to the country and when, above all, it is a Trust Budget, a pillar created in 2015, that trust that you have come to destroy since 2011. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u274	In view of the times available, I do not know whether any Member wishes to sign up. [[Pause.]] The Bureau would like to know whether the Government was in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u276	Mr Nuno Magalhães, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u277	Mr President, I understand from the words of Mr Exa, an interpretation of which I deeply disagree, because we are not in the middle of discussion of a draft law or a proposal for a law, in which, in fact, there is a gentleman's agreement established at the Conference of Leaders that the proposer will be closing the debate. If we are discussing Article 1. that of the proposed State Budget law in the specialty, must do the normal, i.e., follow the order of registration. Therefore, having understood what you were saying, I disagree in front of your interpretation, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u278	Would you like to sign up? Or anyone on your bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u279	Only after the government, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u280	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u281	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau. It is true what the parliamentary leader of the CDS-PP said here. The government does not have to close the debate, just as the CDS-PP does not have to close. If the CDS-PP makes an intervention, the government will also do so, but if the CDS-PP dispenses, we also dispense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u282	in this case, the Bureau will wait, for a few seconds, for someone to sign up. If not, it will declare the debate closed. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u283	We are still waiting here until the 2020 State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u284	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government for recognizing that the CDS is an alternative to this budget when it wants the CDS to speak at the moment and even admit that if the CDS does not speak, it does not need to speak anymore. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] [[CDS-PP applause.]] We therefore thank and acknowledge this to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u286	It's just a good mood!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u287	What we are not going to recognise is that, when this debate is over in the specialty, we actually have a much better budget than the one that came in here. At the beginning of this debate we said that the budget was bad and that could be a little less bad, but the missed opportunity we reported here has not been resolved because we continue to have no measures to allow economic growth that puts us in the front of economic growth in the European Union. Do we continue or do we still have a tax burden that is the highest ever? We will continue to have in 2019 with this Budget. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We will continue to have public services rendering worse service than they did four years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u288	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u289	Always saying bad about public services! The CDS doesn't change!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u290	Do we continue or do we continue to have the discretion of captivity? Let us see how many measures the PCP and the Left Block have said that they have approved and that they will never happen in practice in 2019, as happened with previous budgets, the result of the captivitys of Minister Centeno. But if the Government has this responsibility, also the PCP and the Left Block have not failed to give an air of their grace in the discussion of this Budget, which is the result of that which was the main feature of the Left Block and the PCP during the Legislature. This article, which was characteristic, is that of the ISP ( tax on oil and energy products ). The Left Block and the PCP have done, in this Budget, what they have done during the previous three years, and we have no doubt that they will do it from here forward, in this Legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u291	I thought I was going to talk about higher pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u292	The voters will know, when the elections are held, that voting on the PCP and the Left Block is to do the same as the PCP and the Left Block do in the Budgets: it is to be inconsequential, because they will always say one thing and they will always do another. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u293	Mrs. Members, the opinion of the Bureau, so that silence is not recorded as a precedent, is that, with time available, the author of the proposal under consideration always has the right to use the word at the end. But now the question is not even raised. The word, in any case, is from the Government if requested.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u294	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I thought it was clear that I had been registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u295	Then you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have concluded the debate in the speciality of the State budget and we continue to hear from the PSD and the CDS the idea that this government, that this State budget, despite feeding customers, has no measures for companies or economic competitiveness. This is a much more important debate than it seems. What PSD and CDS have us to systematically present to our companies is the reduction of IRC. They still don't realize that, no matter how much we lowered taxes, that we had the open credit tap, that we had the best machines, the best pavilions, if we don't have a people with the capacity to consume, companies don't sell, they don't bloom, and the economy doesn't. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] How can you talk about economic competitiveness when you think economic policy is to increase taxes and cut income? When taxes are increased and income is cut, what you do is to degrade economic activity, make it impossible for companies to sell, produce, grow. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] So when we rule with the Portuguese people, for the Portuguese people, for the Portuguese workers, for the Portuguese families, when we increase the pensions by €30, when we increase the family allowance for the Portuguese families, when we increase the national minimum wage from €505 to €600, when we eliminate the overtax, when we reject, and we continue to rest, the cuts of the salaries of the Public Administration what we are doing is not ruling for any clientele, is ruling for all Portuguese. And by now, our companies are also winning with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u297	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u298	This separation that they make is a false separation from those who do not understand what determines the production and investment decisions of our companies. However, it was important that they realize them once and for all, because they like to speak on behalf of entrepreneurs, but they don't know what makes them sell or what makes them invest. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Entrepreneurs and companies cannot be separated from the rest of the Portuguese people, because, through the Portuguese state, we have a way of collectively getting this people to live better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u299	That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u300	If we have a growing economy today...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u301	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u302	I will finish, Mr. President. If we have a growing economy, it is good that the reflection of economic growth is reflected in the concrete life of those who work, in the concrete life of those who have worked a whole life, in the concrete life of our children. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u303	You really have to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u304	That is why, in this State Budget, which will not have the favorable vote of the PSD and the CDS, we rule for all Portuguese, from the Minor to the Azores, passing through Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-28.u305	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the examination of Articles 228. o 281. o is 1. the proposed State Budget Act for 2019 and the proposed amendments. I should now like to announce tomorrow's agenda, Thursday, which will start at 10 a.m. First, we shall proceed to the discussion and vote on the rules avoked by the plenary. We shall then proceed to the debate on the closure of the Proposals for Law No 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019, after which the overall final vote will take place. Finally, the vote will take place. Nothing else to deal with for today, I wish you all a good day. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
