ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. We will begin our session with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 687 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and the seventh amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ), 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ), and 748 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works, re-establishing the value of additional work and compensatory rest ( PAN ). To present Bill No. 687 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) the CFP, and starting the debate, has the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Further changes to labour law have always been aimed at withdrawing rights, with obvious emphasis on the serious standards of the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions, modified to worse in 2012 by the PSD/CDS government, where the wager was deliberately in the brutal devalue of work and in the attack on fundamental rights of workers. The brand of PSD and CDS is, without a doubt, the brand of civilizational retrogression. In 2012 they imposed the precariousness as a rule, they embarrassed and facilitated lay-offs and imposed the forced and free work, with the elimination of holidays, three days of holidays and the reduction of days of compulsory rest; they increased the hours of work and generalized the banks of hours, adaptability and concentrated hours; they imposed the cut-off half on the payment of additional work on rest and holidays and on the payment of extraordinary hours; but, as if not enough, they still eliminated the right to compensatory rest. Until 2012, workers were entitled to full payment and compensatory rest for additional work on rest days and on holidays and for extraordinary hours. From 2012 onwards, in addition to the cut of 50 % in the payment of these hours, they still eliminated the compensatory rest. to public administration workers, since 2013, in addition to the 50 % cut, the PSD/CDS government applied a cut of 25 %. since today, with the entry into force of the State Budget for 2018, the public and private are levelled below, maintaining the cut of 50 % — the private, against the 2009 values, and the public, against the 2008 values. The 50% cut in payment of the additional work was applied to all workers by 2015. Since then, only the situations covered by the collective contract provide for payment without reduction. But even in the sectors and companies covered by collective bargaining, the employer has refused to pay the additional work in full. And workers who are not covered by collective bargaining are still being cut. See the example of the more than 150 000 workers of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and of the mercy: they work on Christmas and New Year's Day, days that are paid to them as normal working days, without taking into account family and personal damage, and they can only enjoy them when there are conditions for this! In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is taking a lot to the letter that Christmas can only be when a boss wants to. It is urgent and fair to guarantee the replacement of the value of the payment of the supplementary work to all workers. There is no development of the country without jobs with rights, and that is what we are discussing today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u3	To present Bill No. 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) Mr José Soeiro has the floor of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The profound devaluation of the work that took place in the time of the troika and the previous government occurred in many ways. It occurred through tax, tax changes, IRS steps and overtax. There have been changes in social protection, cuts in social support, freezing and cuts in pensions, changes in unemployment benefit rules. It happened by direct wage cuts. And it also occurred, and significantly, by changes to labour legislation. The changes to labour legislation made in 2012 and 2013 have severely degraded the condition of work in Portugal: they have dismantled the system of collective labour relations and collective bargaining; they have increased unpaid working time; and they have reduced the price paid for work. A blatant example is what we are discussing here today, with regard to additional work. The right, the PSD and the CDS eliminated the right to compensatory rest, i.e. the right that the worker had to rest according to the extra hours he provided, from the additional work he provided. In fact, 25% of the overtime was returned to the worker in the form of rest, and the PSD and CDS eliminated that rest. That is, in one year, a worker who had worked 160 extraordinary hours began working five more days a year without any compensation. But they also halved the amount paid for the extra work — and it was not a little bit, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have halved the remuneration of the additional work that is due to the workers! In Portugal, there are half a million workers who, according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), work on average 315 hours extra per year, i.e. an additional 134 000 hours per year. If we turned this extra work into jobs, we would be talking about anything like 64,665 jobs. Thus, the cut to half in the amount paid for the extra work was an assault on workers' rights and had a double effect: not only did it diminish the income of those who live in their work, but it also hampered job creation, by encouraging the use of extra hours per half of the price. What we are discussing today is the reversal of this attack on workers. What we are discussing today is the recovery of income, it is to maintain the logic of the recovery of income, which is the cement of this majority, is to reverse that cut, made by the PSD and the CDS, in the income of workers, and it is also, Mrs and Mrs. Members, a commitment to job creation. The cut in the value paid for additional work was a disincentive to job creation and is a policy contrary to job creation and must therefore also be reversed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u5	You have the word, to present Bill No. 748 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) the NAP, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 23 / 2012 of 25 June introduced amendments to the Labour Code which contributed to market degradation and working conditions, with direct impacts on workers' lives. This Law, marked by the increase in working time, with the elimination of four holidays and the increase in the duration of the holiday period in cases where the worker has not missed or has only justified errors, also removed the right to compensatory rest and reduced the values paid to the worker for the additional work to half. With the bill we bring today, we intend to return to the workers rights that they have lost in an unjustified way, restating the right to compensatory rest, as well as the values paid, at that date, for the additional work. We see as essential the payment of a fair wage to the worker, for the work done, especially when the provision of additional work is concerned, as a way of compensating the worker for the increased effort to work beyond the normal working period, and the existence of compensatory rest should still be ensured. The current situation, in which people are subjected to hallucinating work rhythms, with high hourly loads and with increasing professional requirements, is making their lifestyle completely adverse to health and personal well-being. It is a priority, accepted by all, that we need more time for the family and to live, not merely to survive. But this is a vision that has not yet found a way to harmonize with a model of society led by the markets, by the economic vision of work and by the mercantillization of time. We believe that this legislative initiative will contribute to achieving this objective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u7	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we are all well aware, labour legislation has been subject to profound changes over the years. And despite further attempts to hide the obvious, the truth is that these changes have been made in one path, in one direction and for one purpose only: the weakening of the worker's position in the labour relationship and the stress of imbalance in labour relations, with great damage to those who work. We have, therefore, seen for several years, but with a particular focus on the last government's period of time, an offensive against those who work, which is marked by the sharp degradation of living conditions of much of the Portuguese families. And even though they intend to escape to the essential, the fact is that the emphasis on the exploitation of those who work was more than predictable of options which, under the most varied pretexts, such as competitiveness or external taxation, eventually translated into the devaluation of work and even into an unprecedented attack on the fundamental rights of those who work. They were workers in the public sector, they were workers in the private sector, no one escaped these unbridled furries, but still options, which imposed low wages, cuts behind cuts in wage terms, and a sharp decrease in important social support, such as the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of insertion or even the family allowance. As if this were all little, the PSD and CDS government would still impose amendments to the Labour Code that were no more than real favours to employers. We refer not only to amendments relating to the concept of fair cause for dismissal or to the disappearance of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, but also to new rules for dismissal, which have resulted in a genuine invitation to employers to lay off, placing the compensation, in case of dismissal, cheaper and the most facilitated process. But the amendments to the Labour Code, carried out by the PSD Government and the CDS, were unfortunately not left here. in fact, on this long and deep walk against those who work, it is still necessary to remember the summation of holidays, the subtraction of days to holidays and the cutting of days of compulsory rest. However, these decisions of the previous government, which have continued to be options, have led to a strong and marked degradation of labour income and the scale of the devaluation of the work that the PSD and CDS have promoted, and accounting only for the increase in working time and the reduction in the value paid for the work done, is an unbelievable greatness. We are talking about billions of euros, which the PSD and CDS strategy has withdrawn from work income to add to capital income. In other words, these options have exacerbated the incomes of the Portuguese generality, to fatten the incomes of a few, in billions of euros. But the most serious thing is that these options, in addition to the dramatic situations that have caused from the social point of view for the generality of Portuguese families, have not only resolved none of our problems, as they have further aggravated them. The economy has continued to skate and unemployment has not ceased to grow, as, moreover, they show numbers and how, in fact, everyone recognizes. It is precisely these options, which the previous Government decided to take on, which now needs to be completely reversed. Among the many employment options now needed to be reviewed are the decisions that have led to the cut in the payment of additional work and the right to compensatory rest. It is that people cannot be seen only as an element necessary to gear the quick profit, to fatten only a few, few. People can not only live to work, they need not only rest, even for health reasons, but also opportunities to be able to reconcile their family life with their professional activity. And today, as we have in the face of the proposals under discussion, the possibility of restoring the right to compensatory rest for additional work and properly paying for extraordinary work, or, in other words, as we are once again able to remove from our legal order some, but painful, injustices, imposed by the policies of the previous Government, in the field of work, it is time to make a choice again. from the Greens, we maintain the position we have always taken on this matter. Our choice is for social justice. Our option is to work with rights. Our option is to value the work and to dignify the living conditions of the generality of Portuguese families. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u9	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing legislative amendments, proposed by the Left Block, the CFP and the NAP, to increase the amount paid for the additional work and to restore the right to compensatory rest for the provision of this same work. Furthermore, they want the proponents of these initiatives to apply these amendments to the public sector and the private sector. for the interventions I have just heard and for the careful reading I have made of the explanatory statements of the legislative initiatives, allow me, Mrs and Mrs. Members who clearly say that you reveal a true disregard for the efforts of the Portuguese during the past government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u12	All right, it's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u13	... by the effort of Portuguese in general, because VV. For example, they cannot recognize that the country had to recover from a pre-bankrota, from the financial disqualification with which we stayed, after successive governments of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u14	And stealing extraordinary hours is what it's like to solve that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u15	In view of this, the ladies and gentlemen. Members also reveal a great deal of disregard by the European institutions, which recognize and affirm the importance of the labour reforms carried out for the recovery of the country. [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] There have been very significant reforms to reduce unemployment, to increase employment, to increase exports, to reduce insolvency, to increase the competitiveness of businesses, but you are unable to recognize all these data and these positive reforms that have arrived in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u16	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u17	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now important to clarify why the PSD does not follow these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u18	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u19	So let us talk about the application of this measure to the private sector. This is no longer the first time that, through Parliament, without social dialogue, without social consultation,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u20	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u21	Calm down! A little shot!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u22	...you try to dialogue matters that have to be discussed in the social dialogue before. This is an unacceptable mistake that we have constantly highlighted in these debates, an unacceptable mistake that we have to mention and point out.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u24	You are still enemies of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u25	Totally!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u27	They are enemies of social consultation, they are forces of blockade to negotiation, they are intransigent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u29	You don't design an economy that needs businesses and workers, you don't realize that, for workers, there has to be companies and for companies there must be workers. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u30	Now, let's talk about the public sector. So why is the PSD not accompanying this matter to the public sector, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because, like Mrs Tavares, the draftsman of the opinion, Carla Tavares says, well, the proponents of the initiatives do not refer to the financial implications of this measure. I don't know if the honourable Member already has the accounts, but if she does, she can share them. The proponents of the initiatives do not have the accounts and are constantly presenting to the Portuguese this lack of rigour, this lack of seriousness. The Portuguese don't deserve it, we have to report... [[All right!]] [[Protests by members of BE Joana Mortagua and PCP Diana Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u31	...and we could be all day pointing out mistakes, pointing out failures, pointing out a lack of commitment to public servants. Because we're talking about civil servants, we're going to talk, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of their commitment to 35 hours for all civil servants. It happens that even today, we have public employees working at the same workplace, some 35 hours and others 40 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u33	The ladies and gentlemen. Members also made a commitment to thousands and thousands of precarious workers when they promised them integration. And what do we really have? We have endless chaos in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u35	They're just promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u36	With regard to the defrosting of careers, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you open the box and it looks like Paradise, but when you see it, the chaos is installed. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] We are at the beginning of 2018, when the process of defrosting careers should be in full operation, but we are still measuring criteria. But we can talk about more matters. For example, we have hundreds and hundreds of workers awaiting the final decision on the consolidation of inter-branch mobility and whose processes are stopped in the Ministry of Finance. For example, we have 127 employees from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ) who await the final decision on the consolidation of their mobility. We also have, of course, a government that announces the fight against precariousness, which has plans to combat precariousness — at least that is what it says — however, precariousness is increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u37	They're just promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u38	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I do not understand why there is so much good provision in the Left Block and the PCP benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u39	Because what you're saying is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u40	The promises are ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u41	Eat breakfast anecdotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u42	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u43	I will finish, Mr. President. I just wanted to say, Mr President, that these banks, which are part of this government solution, have no commitment to the workers. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Members Carla Cruz and Diana Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u44	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, although two parliamentary groups have not yet intervened on this point. I ask that there be less tactics and faster. The PS and the CDS have not yet used the word, but, if they do not sign up, we are closing the discussion of these initiatives. [[Pause.]] Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The austerity policies carried out by the former Government, of the majority PSD / CDS, led the country to an increase in unprecedented unemployment, with devastating social effects on the younger, the less skilled workers and families. Thousands of Portuguese people have lost their jobs. Mrs. Carla Barros, these are the accounts that the Socialist Party has made. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That period will forever be associated with the devaluation of the dignity of work and the rights of workers, but also with the devaluation and disrespect for social dialogue and collective bargaining. The Government of the Socialist Party and the parliamentary majority that supports it have always defined it as a priority — and this is indeed its essence — the recovery of income and rights deducted from workers during the Government of the former majority, PSD / CDS. The Socialist Party's Government has therefore defined, as priorities, the promotion of more and better employment, the fight against precariousness, the recovery of the dynamism of social dialogue both in the context of social dialogue, or by promoting and strengthening collective bargaining, by extending the publication of extension portals. Since the current government took possession, four mandatory holidays have been restored; the minimum wage has been increased for the current €580, maintaining the commitment to reach €600 in 2019 ; the extraordinary regularisation programme of precarious links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), granting dignity to thousands of workers who may have finally stabilized their work situation ; specific legislation to combat modern forms of forced labour has been approved; specific legislation has been approved to prevent the practice of harassment at work ; 35 hours of work have been restored in the public service. in the last two years, more than 288 000 jobs were created, 78 % of which are non-term contracts, and the unemployment rate was set at 7, 8 % in December 2017, the lowest since 2004. We well know that there is still much to be done and the majority that supports the current government will always have a fundamental role to play, because, as our Prime Minister said yesterday, it is with this majority that we want to continue to improve the quality of employment and the labour market. However, priorities have to be defined and the current government has never, on the contrary, stated that combating precariousness is the priority, as is the increase in national minimum wage, as is the dynamisation of collective bargaining, as is the fight against young unemployment, as is the transition from longer careers to part-time reform. Yesterday it was announced that we will soon have important advances in this area and I believe that this left-wing parliamentary majority will be united in this important and necessary fight against all forms of precariousness, promoting and supporting measures that promote more stable and lasting labour relations. We all recognize the need to make adjustments to labour legislation, which has been demonstrated today. However, these adjustments cannot be made in a narrow manner, but rather in a concerted context and as a result of a weighted and transparent negotiation within the framework of social consultation, so that it is possible to achieve the necessary solidity that Parliament's amendments cannot ensure, always thanks to any changes in their composition, depending on the legislative cycles. More than disagreeing with past legislative options, it is essential to ensure the stability of labour legislation for the future, based on consensus that covers as many workers as possible in the labour market, thus giving greater stability, security, robustness and predictability to labour laws. This is also a priority of this government, to which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies: to listen to everyone, to give a voice to all, to respect all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u46	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again we are discussing initiatives by the CFP and the Left Block to reverse the reform of labour legislation, which has allowed it to be modernised, economic growth and job creation. So, once again, we have an episode, another episode, of the reversal, and now comes the turn of the extra work. Yes, it is another episode, because we are now discussing the supplementary work, but we know that, even today, we are going to vote on a proposal for the transmission of companies and establishments, which the PS, the Bloc and the CFP will approve without going to social consultation. Initiatives relating to night and shift work and the consecration of Tuesday of Carnival as a national holiday are also being discussed as a specialist — and we know that the latter dropped to the committee without a vote —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u48	What about holidays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u49	... legislation on combating forced labour has already been adopted without going to social consultation and here will be discussed on the subject of completed work, as well as all other matters that the agenda on the left wants to be discussed. These episodes—in the background, this soap opera in which the changes to the Labour Code made by this majority, PS, Block and PCP, risk transforming themselves—are essentially based on unrealism, because they exacerbate the costs of companies, damage the creation of wealth and investment and, consequently, damage employment and workers. In fact, the proposals result from pure ideological prejudice of the left, which, as we know, once again want to impose the reversals without going to social consultation, disrespecting social dialogue and agreements reached in concert. The Labour Code which is in force results from agreements in social consultation, where workers, employers and the government are represented, and it is good to remember the Socialist Party of its 2008 agreement, the tripartite agreement, which allowed the revision of the Labour Code. But it was not only the Socialist Party that made agreements in social consultation to revise the Labour Code; the PSD/CDS government in 2012 did the same with the Growth Commitment, which was signed by the social partners and served as a basis for current labour legislation. What will happen to these successive proposals of the PCP and the Left Block? What will the Socialist Party do? First of all, it is good to clarify whether the initiatives will be brought down to committee without a vote or whether they are going to vote. If you vote and the Socialist Party vote against, as you just said, it is good for the PCP and the Left Block to tell us what they are going to do, what consequences are they going to withdraw. This is your government, this is your majority! Say there: will you withdraw any consequences? Will you accept that your majority disrespects your priority in the revision of labour law? We'd better be told what they want to do if the PS votes against. If the initiatives go down to the committee without a vote, it is the PS that has to clarify what he wants to do. It is one thing to say that you are in favour of social consultation and another thing is then to accept to give in to negotiations and end by, the tow of the Left Block and the PCP, to approve proposals without going to social consultation, as they will do today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u51	... and, in fact, disrespect agreements and social agreement only to maintain the power and support of the partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u53	That is why it is not enough for the Socialist Party to say what it has just said today, but it has to say how it will lead, in particular, to proposals which fall to the Commission without a vote, and which remain seagoing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u55	...until the left can have enough strength to force the PS to give in to these initiatives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u56	For a second speech, Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u57	Mr President, in these few seconds that I have, I just wanted to reply to Mr António Carlos Monteiro saying that we all know his usual narrative...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u59	... that all these measures carried out by the current Government, in particular as regards the replacement of holidays and the restitution of certain rights, are detrimental to companies and the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u60	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u61	Finally, Mr President, we are all familiar with this narrative. But I ask you a very simple and objective question: will you explain to us what is the relationship between the increase in minimum wage and the reduction in unemployment? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u62	For a second intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Carla Barros, you have hired the workers, eliminated four holidays, retired three days' holidays, ended the compensatory break, subtracted the workers half of the overtime pay, and, after the assault, thanked the victims of the assault for their efforts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u64	We still won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u65	Mrs Deputies, the workers express their thanks for what they have stolen from them, and that is what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u67	Talk to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u68	The basic problem is that for the PSD and CDS this idea remains that the growth of the economy is at the expense of low wages and the crushing of those who work. That's the difference, that's what separates us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u69	We've got the country out of bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u70	On the contrary, the economy does not grow at the expense of the impoverishment of those who work, because it is not only unfair, as is wrong, from the economic point of view. And the return of income has proved that it is just when we recover the value of the work that we create jobs, that we rest dignity and that we promote growth. Mr António Carlos Monteiro spoke here about conciliation, but it was precisely the PSD and the CDS that destroyed the conditions under which collective bargaining is taking place in Portugal. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] It was you who prevented consultation by allowing unilateral decisions by employers, for example, on geographical and functional mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u73	They talk about family, but they promote extraordinary work, they think that shiftwork should be generalized, they have ended with days of vacation and rest, which is the time for people to be with the family. They speak of balance, but they have facilitated dismissals, they have allowed the conditions under which work is provided to be conditions of humiliation and numbness of workers. That's why, sirs. Members, what we are talking about here is valuing work, respecting workers and having policies that, instead of encouraging extra hours paid at half the price, encourage job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u74	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u75	I will end by addressing the Socialist Party. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, today we will take a very important step in the transmission of establishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u76	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u77	I'm done now, Mr. President. It would be good if this day were also the day of the return to workers from what was taken from them...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u78	Thank you, sir. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u79	...and the Socialist Party has a majority in this Parliament to do so today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u80	And what are you going to do? The Socialist Party will vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u81	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for PSD and CDS, nothing new. Reversion means reintroduction of rights and therefore they will never follow that path. It's history, it's the life of the PSD and the CDS. We'd wonder if it was the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u84	Therefore, as for the position of the PSD and CDS, we are not surprised. As regards what the PS has said here, we must say, Mrs Carla Tavares, that referring these matters to social dialogue is to know that the employer will never follow these matters, because the honourable Member knows that in social consultation the employers' confederations are mostly. And more: you know that bosses do not allow a way of valuing work. The employers do not even want to pay what is stipulated in collective bargaining as much as guarantee the minimum for all workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u85	And what are the consequences? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u86	It is therefore very clear that social dialogue is not elected by the Portuguese people, the Assembly of the Republic is elected by the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u88	It is up to the Assembly of the Republic to decide measures to value work: or we are on the side of those who, in the context of economic growth, invoice EUR 450 million such as EDP, EUR 250 million such as Galp, EUR 173 million such as Jerónimo Martins, of those who think it is very important for the country that workers continue to earn the minimum wage very little less than what is necessary, who continue not to have the payment of additional work as it should be possible, or then we must take a step in this direction. What the PS here has told us today is that it is not available to take advantage of this opportunity to restore rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u89	Having said that, will you present a motion of censure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u90	Changing labour law is not the whole of the path that can be made with regard to the protection of workers' rights. The defence of workers' rights is beyond labour law, but labour law is very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u92	And today the discussion that we are making here cannot fail to have the clarification of the PS position. Today, we discuss the following: either workers continue to have the extra work paid as normal work or we value extraordinary work; or we guarantee respect for the right to articulate family life with personal life or we continue to say that employers can use and abuse workers' time. The clear proposal we bring here is to value the payment of additional work in all its conditions and ensure compensatory rest, because if, today, the PS opts to be next to the PSD and the CDS, the PCP knows where it is, where it has been and where it will be: next to the workers and their rights, because the path is that. There is no development of the country without workers with rights, no development of the country without employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u93	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u94	I will finish, Mr. President. The development of the country is neither compatible nor accounted for by the profits of Galp, it is accounted for by the rights of work and Portuguese democracy. That is what we will continue to do. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u95	We will move on to the second point of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 381 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They call for the abolition of the use of disposable plastics in Portugal (Belarmino Teixeira and others) together with, in general, the projects of lein.o 581 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ban on the marketing of disposable meal utensils in plastic ( The Greens ), 752 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-use of disposable plastic dishes in certain catering sectors ( PAN), 747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastics and provides for the transition to new materials and practices ( BE) and 754 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation to provide consumers with alternatives to the distribution of disposable meal utensils in plastics, in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments ( PCP ) and with draft resolution No 1286/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote studies on alternatives to the use of disposable plastic dishes, carry out awareness-raising campaigns to reduce their use and define a strategy for the gradual reduction of their use ( PSD ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u96	Mr President, before starting the speech, I wanted to use the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u97	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u98	Mr President, it is to make a correction, since there is a different understanding as to what Mr President has just read. The initiative of this discussion was of the Greens Ecological Party, which was followed by a set of projects, including the petition. I think it would be fair to say that it was the Greens who originated this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u99	Mrs. Deputy, you're absolutely right. I began the presentation of the debate by the petition only on the question of the organisation of basic information, but indeed the initiative is from The Greens, and that is why Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is the first to speak. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, the Greens have often brought proposals to the Assembly of the Republic to reduce plastics. If it is true that we need more responsible consumers, it is also true that economic agents cannot stay out of the equation and that the offers made on the market are absolutely decisive in pursuing our goal, which is precisely that of reducing plastics. in this sense, The Greens have already presented proposals for plastic bags, superfluous packagings and today, we have introduced on the parliamentary agenda the issue of disposable meal utensils in plastic, which Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that well. Now, indeed, we are faced with a problem: plastics are a plague in modern societies. They are produced through oil and are used massively, but so massively that they produce numerous wastes that completely invade the environment. For these plastic wastes, they are divided into even very small microparticles that quickly enter the food chain, in free space, and there have been several studies that detected the presence of microplastics, for example, in salt, honey, beer, fish. But we are faced here with another enormous problem: these plastics are invading, completely flooding our oceans, to the point of already predicting that from now on there may be more plastic in the oceans than fish itself. Look at the seriousness of the situation! [[At this moment, the speaker showed two dishes and a glass of plastic.]] So, with regard to this plastic dish — if we can call it — it is also important to say that one part is not recyclable and another part is not recycled for economic reasons. We must take a principle here: the prevalence must be that of the use of reusable material, i.e. material that can be used, washed, disinfected to be used again. This should be the high prevalence, but if it is to use disposable material, then less aggressive material is used for the environment, particularly biodegradable material. The Greens therefore present a proposal today to the Assembly of the Republic to eliminate the marketing and use of disposable food utensils in plastic. We have a work base and we are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, available to hear a lot of people and to work with all parliamentary groups to develop a sustainable proposal for societies and for the environment. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]] [[Pause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u101	Mrs. Eloísa Apollonia is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u102	Yes, Mr. President. I asked for the floor to, if I may, make an appeal to the Bureau very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u103	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u104	In the hope that it will not interfere with the conduct of the work, the fact is that, with regard to the preparation of this draft law of The Greens, various and various Mrs and Mrs. We were asked about the alternative material market, namely cutters. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a dish, a glass and a biodegradable fork.]] To prove that there is an alternative on the market, if Mr President will allow me, I will precisely distribute this material, so that you and the ladies and gentlemen may. Members can see what already exists as a market offer and which can be widespread.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u105	Madam Member, if you do not mind, bring this material to the Bureau, where it will be deposited for the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll see if you want. To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Plastic is one of the great challenges of today. If it is true that it presents various kinds of utilities, it is also true that there are serious problems associated with its elimination. These are problems which, in our view, supplant the possible benefits that can bring at the level of operationality, and are certain that there are several alternatives to their production and use. Let's go! It is therefore essential that the medium term definitely end the production and use of disposable plastics in Portugal. And for this reason, we welcome and follow the Left and Green Blocks for their initiatives. however, we believe that it is necessary and that measures can already be implemented in a first phase, which have short-term effect and, for this reason, we present today the proposal to abandon the use of disposable plastic dishes in certain sectors of restoration and beverages. This is the first step towards « deplastifying » Portugal. We propose as a rule the use of reusable dishes in all establishments or areas granted such as restaurants, bars, cafes, canteens, discos or festivals. Operators have a period of one year to adapt to the provisions of the law, admitting only as exceptions the situations designated as take away, which require more time to change their processes and promote re-use solutions. Also, and in matters of safety and operationality at this stage, we propose to exempt meals served by means of air or rail transport. The solution is not to replace plastic with other materials — even if they are biodegradable — and to maintain the same production and consumption habits of single use, but rather to change the paradigm and stimulate the use of durable and recyclable materials. Waste policy and legislation must respect the following priorities as regards waste prevention and management options: first, prevention and reduction; secondly, re-use preparation; then, and only later, recycling; following other types of recovery, e.g. energy recovery; and, finally, elimination. It is urgent to change consumption patterns in order to drastically reduce the production and consumption of plastics, always in view of the principle of intergenerational solidarity, as well as the strict use of natural resources. It is sensible and realistic to start this process with the limitation of the use of disposable plasticware in some services in the restoration sector, knowing and being aware that the universe of needs to intervene in the context of plastic overuse goes far beyond this proposal. But until then, this is the first step to « desplastify » Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u107	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know that the business model of plastics is based mainly on disposable, basically on single use, and on promoting similar consumption practices. This is an excellent and eternal model for those who produce and sell, because it guarantees a constant flow, but it is an unsustainable and ruinous model for the planet and society. This option, and now the few and moderate public policies that oppose it, only obliges an incessant extraction of elements and of two, one : or leads to its treatment, as a waste, or to the accumulation of waste throughout the ecosystem. We all know the agglomerations, mostly made up of plastics that are deposited in the oceans, and we all know the campaigns that seek to minimize this impact. And the environmental impacts of plastic are unanimously recognized and the size of the problem is disproportionate and constantly growing. As if not enough, plastic — made from non-renewable sources such as oil — contributes largely to greenhouse gas emissions and is difficult and slow to degrade. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it remains in the environment for centuries. It is thus understood that this is one more of the problems that the market will not solve, nor will it take the initiative to solve, and that it will tend to get worse. In addition, France seems to have already seen this need and has created a transition system that eliminates the production and marketing of disposable plastics by 2020, in line with European perspectives. The Left Block Parliamentary Group thus presents this bill, providing for the ban on the marketing of disposable plastic utensils used in meals, such as shovels, cutters, cups, dishes and others. It also proposes that the use of these materials be replaced by others, biodegradable, but also by the non-use or use of sustainable materials with low environmental impact, and also provides for a transition period of three years for this change. The Left Block thus understands that it is essential to present solutions to the problems that the origin and efemerity of plastic create in ecosystems and that it is not enough to carry out awareness campaigns or to introduce only other materials, without correcting the distortions that this business model implies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have any proposals back in response to this model and the urgency of measures against CO2 emissions and climate change. New solutions, other materials and other forms of production are needed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u109	To present the PCP bill, Mr. Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the massive use of plastic and its environmental costs have been said a lot. The preambles of the bills are very clear about this, and today it is from the general knowledge that the use of plastics both in the production process and in the process of accumulation — taking into account that it is a non-biodegradable material — is uncomplicated for a balanced relationship between human activities and nature and, I repeat, from the point of view of the production costs, or of the destinations that are given to plastics. in the case of the use of disposable tools, this is even more true, considering that the time of life, the time of use of these tools is even shorter and therefore its accumulation in nature becomes faster for simple use. The CFP welcomes the parliamentary groups for the proposals for debate, and fully believes that measures are needed to limit recourse to everything that is disposable, because, regardless of the material it is produced, environmental costs are always increased. Therefore, what should be privileged is the use of reusable and non-disposable tools, but when disposable, which are, of course, made up of less harmful materials or have less environmental costs. The proposals put forward have chosen almost all of them through the prohibition. The CFP presents a different proposal: it is essential to make the presentation, by the economic agent, of a reusable alternative or biodegradable, although it is disposable. This means that, in a commercial establishment or in a commercial event open to the public, disposable plastic can continue to exist, provided that an alternative is offered to the public, with a view, of course, to the gradual elimination of the use of disposable plastic, without creating an abrupt cleavage in its use and in the methods currently occurring in industry and distribution. We believe that there are today voluntary experiences that demonstrate the success of this alternative and that it would certainly be — if it became law and compulsory — a phase of transition to a much more reasonable use of disposable materials, containing as little plastic as possible, being recyclable, or, then, no longer being completely disposable and moving on to a reusable use. on our part, without having, of course, nothing against the draft resolution of the PSD, which does not seem to deserve great reparations, and since I have also referred to the bills, the question is simple: the House today has the opportunity to take into its hands a process which is also up to it, which is the legislative process, and therefore nothing prevents us from legislating, rather than leaving us for the future. Today we can clearly take a step to significantly reduce the use of disposable plastics and stop or at least reduce the costs that these uses have in the environment and in the economy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u111	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reduction of the environmental impact of human activities, the environmental concern and the achievement of the objectives for sustainable development and the strategy defined by the Paris Agreement are issues that mobilize the different political forces, society and citizens. It proves this are the different projects that we are discussing here today and the petition signed by more than 5000 citizens, which we congratulate. In order to ensure sustainable development, efficient climate action and a more carbon-free society, the world faces the enormous challenge of changing production and consumption habits, efficient use of resources and reduction of waste. in this context, it is imperative to reduce the dependence of plastic. At present, the mass production and consumption of disposable plastic packaging and utensils achieve values of this kind — already well noted in this debate — that their impact has become a threat of great proportions to the environmental balance of the planet, the oceans, ecosystems and the trophic chains. In line with the demands of the times and the challenges we live in, Portugal, then under PSD governance, affixed on sustainable development and growth, affirming its competitive advantages and positioning itself in the leadership of the new global trend of the green economy. It was with a strategic plan — the Green Growth Commitment — that we set ambitious and feasible goals. They will also always be associated with the best environmental performance of the Strategic Plan for Urban Residues and the green tax reform, the latter responsible for the drastic reduction in the use of light plastic bags in Portugal and for a huge and positive change in the lives of Portuguese, with notorious environmental gains for the country and the planet. However, this is an unfinished path. Recently, the European Commission has defined the European strategy for plastics, which determines that by 2030 all plastic packaging placed on the European Union market is recyclable, that consumption of disposable plastics is reduced and that the intentional use of microplastics is restricted. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the change is laborious, it always causes resistance and implies preparation. When we want to change course, it matters much more the direction we take than the speed we do. If, on the one hand, it is urgent to act to avoid the degradation of the planet's environmental conditions, on the other hand, it is important to act gradually, sustainably and efficiently, measuring well all the economic and social effects and impacts of our decisions. It is therefore important to ensure their studies and knowledge of the alternatives and impacts and to ensure the time to adapt the different economic sectors involved. But it is important, above all, to continue the path of changing habits, production and consumption, ensuring, in the first place, that the use of reusable, durable and with reduced environmental impact is prioritized; in the second place, the use of recyclable materials, which are effectively recycled; and in the third place, new biodegradable materials, gradually reducing and abandoning, but in a timely and effective manner, waste cleaners without potential to be reintroduced into the production chain. For all this, the PSD Parliamentary Group recommends that the Government study and present the alternatives available on the market, or to create, to replace the use of disposable plasticware in the restoration; to carry out awareness campaigns to reduce the use of disposable dishes and packaging in the restoration sector and with the general population; and to define a gradual but effective reduction strategy from the use of disposable plasticware until its disposal in the restoration sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate, I give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I just wanted to announce the expiry of the procedure concerning the assessment of Decree-Law No 67 / 2017 of 12 June amending the system for the creation of forest intervention zones [ Parliamentary assessment No 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume the debate. For an intervention, Mr. João Torres of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental awareness has led to the expansion of the fields of action in this area over the past few years and is now clear to all, and to the PS Parliamentary Group in particular the impact that a wide range of plastic products have had on pollution. In particular, the use of cups, cutlery or disposable dishes has been declared massively and spontaneously with consumers, neglecting the consequences of their production, the consequences of their treatment and the environmental damage that it stimulates. The Government of the Socialist Party has set an example by appointing, in January this year, a working group to reduce plastic consumption in Portugal, which will not forget the specific object of the initiatives under consideration today. The draft resolution presented by the PSD here today is therefore late in the face of the will already expressed by the Government and which the PS naturally accompanies. And the Government not only announced the creation of this team, but also announced that the conclusions of this working group will be known by the next month of May, which, not taking into account the initiatives under discussion, leads us to consider that the ideas resulting from this working group should be addressed in the legislative process. Alongside this argument, which is indeed revealing the Government's desire to be a step forward in the generality of the Member States of the European Union, there are issues in the initiatives of the Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block, which, in the understanding of the PS, are not properly safeguarded. These proposals prohibit the marketing and import of disposable feeding utensils in plastic, regardless of the percentage of biodegradable materials incorporated and not establishing any gradual transition period, either in time or in terms of material composition — and here is a very significant difference from the French model, which has been pointed out as an example in this matter. I could add to this set of questions of a kind of supervision, of the counter-ordering regime itself and even of European law. In turn, the draft own-initiative laws of the NAP and the CFP, being more reasonable about their immediate object and realisation, raise doubts about their formulation, but we do not oppose the opening of the respective discussion process in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 'adaptation' and'mitigation' are two of the key concepts of the Paris Agreement which can also be transposed into this discussion as regards what we want to see happen in society, which is a reduction in plastic consumption. The Socialist Party supports the development of the circular economy and has put forward measures to encourage the change of the economic paradigm, safeguarding ecosystems, but it is fundamental for us — and possible — to establish a virtuous relationship between environmental performance and socio-economic performance. in 2018, significant steps will have to be taken to reduce plastic consumption in Portugal — that is also the commitment of the PS Parliamentary Group — but, for the reasons I announced, the bills under discussion today are far from worthy, in their formulation, our immediate and thorough agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u117	by the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating and greeting the petitioners for having pushed this issue, and also by complimenting The Greens for having scheduled for debate, because it is a current and relevant issue in order to achieve such a circular economy necessary for a more sustainable environment. I would also like to greet the NAP, the Left Block, the PCP and the PSD for having associated with initiatives that also contribute to the objectives that are currently under discussion. These projects all take a step forward in the right direction. If Portugal has committed itself to the objectives of sustainable development, this commitment cannot only remain in the role and must move on to action. These projects also meet the European strategy for plastics, basically for commitments to reduce plastics in the environment by 2030. Therefore, the CDS will enable these projects, but cannot fail to signal some negative aspects that we consider that, in the field of specialty, they will have to be reviewed and then deserve our final agreement. I would like to leave three notes on the most negative issues. As regards counter-ordinations, it does not seem reasonable to us that they are considered very serious counter-ordinations, according to the plans of both the NAP and the Greens, because it seems excessive to us. with regard to adaptation deadlines, the NAP bill provides for one year, but seems to us too short a time frame for society and operators to adapt and find alternatives. On the other hand, we consider the need to predict exceptions, which only the NAP and PCP projects consider. We are available to discuss what these exceptions should be, but they will be less than those provided for in aviation and rail. It seems to us to make every sense that the ban on disposable utensils is not mandatory and we are available to discuss this subject in the field of expertise. The projects of the Left Block and the Greens are too restrictive in this respect and therefore we do not follow that component. however, all projects place much more emphasis on the prohibition of use and on the obligation to make alternatives available, either reusable or biodegradable, and we do not consider that this is the only way. in this respect, the recommendation of the PSD is positive, because it proposes a study of alternatives, awareness campaigns and the definition of a strategy of gradual reduction of plastics. Finally, Mr President, we in the CDS believe that changing practices in society should be promoted on the basis of incentives, which none of the projects foresee. Incentives can be negative or positive through rates or through positive support and incentives. This is an example of what happened with the rates of plastic bags in green taxation, which led to a substantial reduction in the use of plastics. There are also many good examples with good practices of sustainability. Here I give the example of a festival that takes place in my district, which is the Bons Sons Festival, which implemented last year the use of a reusable mug, which is subject to a bail and which at the end of the festival all those who participate return.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u119	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u120	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. This practice reduces not only plastics but all waste. We therefore believe that there is a set of incentives to be promoted. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u121	For a second intervention, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We note that there is a sort of agreement here on the need for reduction and prevention in the use of disposable materials, but we realize that each parliamentary group has different understandings of different speeds in this area. I want to remind you that we haven't always used so many disposable materials. In fact, it is not always that we use disposable materials and we were used to living with it. Only 30 % of plastic is recycled and it is urgent that we work to prevent the production of so much disposable material. in this sense, we also propose a transition period, but a transition period that is feasible for both companies and the planet and ecosystem. However, this three-year transition period seems to us perfectly plausible to be achieved so that we stop producing and marketing plastics and move on to use biodegradable materials, so that we do not have so much material production and we can ensure that the environment and the ecosystem survive our footprint. It does not seem to us that this option is entirely radical. In fact, there is much more to do in this direction, so it is enough to take this first step to finally begin to reduce our impact as human beings on the ecosystem that we have been intervening in. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u123	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all seem to agree that the first incentives have to be even for reusable materials, but something must be done and we do not wait for behaviour to change. In the face of the plague that is thrown into our society, which are plastics and its mass use, we have several hypotheses: either we do nothing and we wait for everything to change, or we walk very slowly, or we take effective measures. Therefore, this is also the difference of different projects. For example, NAP and PSD projects are restricted to the restoration sector. It's short, very short, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps, that's why the PS likes it. in my first speech, I was very clear: we have a work base, we are willing to extend the transition and adaptation period that we propose. We are aware that three years, for us, is enough, but we can extend that deadline. And he also said that we can extend the transition to material composition and we can extend this adaptation to the adaptation period itself. We are therefore very open to building a text that we consider to be more effective and also more consensual among the parliamentary groups, but we present our basis. I therefore ask the Socialist Party not to impede this project so that, in the field of expertise, we can extend this discussion, also to discuss on the basis, as Mr. João Torres said, in the conclusions that the working group will withdraw. It is not because of the fact that the Government has set up a working group — Mr President, of course — that the Assembly of the Republic cannot initiate a legislative process, but what I sincerely ask the Socialist Party is that it does not preclude this project in the sense that, in the specialty, we can actually hear numerous experts, many interested in this matter. I also want to tell you that we do not put economic agents out of the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u125	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u126	I'm done now, Mr. President. All must be involved: Government, Assembly of the Republic, economic agents, consumers, all! I therefore ask the Socialist Party to be reasonable, taking into account this openness that the Greens are manifesting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u127	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 345/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the creation of a recruitment group for the Portuguese Gestal Language (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) and draft resolution No 1283 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the accounting of all the time of service provided by Portuguese Gestive Language teachers for the purposes of integration into the teaching career ( BE ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by congratulating FENPROF and teachers and teachers of Portuguese Gestive Language (LGP). I also wanted to take the opportunity to greet AFOMOS (Association of Professionals in the Teaching of Gestive Language ) and to direct a greeting to the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) for the completion of the Plenary this afternoon, asking that they also transmit our greeting to their teachers. This petition was aimed at correcting a historical discrimination of teachers and teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language. The Portuguese Gestal Language is the third official language of the country. She is the mother tongue for many children who learn in our schools. There is no inclusive school without technicians and teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language—there is room for both inside the school, for technicians, who do their work, and for teachers—but the truth is that until now, teachers who teach Portuguese Gestual Language were and are hired as technicians and therefore have no access to recruitment or teaching career. They have programs to teach, which are approved, have a discipline that is recognized as such, they have to evaluate their students and students according to the program of this discipline, they have to hold meetings, they have to do everything a teacher and a teacher do during their normal activity. The only thing they didn't have was full recognition that they are teachers and that they are teachers. The Government announced a working group to set up this recruitment group for teachers in Portuguese Gestual Language and it was announced in January that they had agreed with the unions on the terms of setting up this recruitment group. There will therefore be a recruitment group for these teachers in a second phase, which is the stage of the right to career in their full, and that is what is currently being negotiated for all teachers, not only for those of the Portuguese Gestive Language. It is the recognition of time before professionalization, that is, every year without these teachers being in schools students and students who need the discipline of Portuguese Gestual Language would not have learned it. This time must be recognized for career purposes for all teachers who did not have professionalization but who were in schools. And, for most reasons, for these teachers, who have a particularity: it is that, since there was no recruitment group, victims of discrimination in relation to the deaf community, these teachers also did not have access to professionalization. The Left Block considers that not to account for the hours of service that these teachers have devoted to students and students like all others, but these in particular, who have been victims of this discrimination, is to prolong discrimination against the deaf community. [[Congratulations from BE, expressed in Portuguese Gesture Language.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party welcomes FenPROF, AFOMOS, its representatives, who are present in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic, and the more than 7000 subscribers for the dynamization of the petition we are discussing today. The creation of a recruitment group of Portuguese Gestual Language teachers has been a demand for many years and is a matter on which the CFP has also intervened over the years, asking questions and presenting initiatives. Therefore, it is a claim we have always followed. It is also a fundamental condition for the dignity and appreciation of this discipline and of these workers, who, year after year, have been contracted with precarious links when they respond to the permanent needs of schools. We note the overall agreement reached between the Government and the trade unions, in particular FENPROF, with regard to the establishment of the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group. however, we cannot fail to say that the service time prior to professionalization provided in teaching functions, as is easily proven, should be counted for career purposes. In fact, this issue covers not only teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language, but also all cases where the time of service relates to career purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u132	in the specific case of teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language, the injustice of the non-accounting of the time prior to professionalization comes to have quite loud contours, as is the example of a teacher with 33 years of service, who, in maintaining the unaccounting of this time prior to professionalization, will enter the career with zero years of service — zero, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — despite having served as teachers for 33 years, with evaluation and curriculum of the discipline approved by the Ministry of Education. In fact, this is a question of basic justice, because it is about the working time of these professionals and the recognition of the value of this discipline. In addition, this is a long-standing struggle that not only concerns cases related to the Portuguese Gesture Language, it also concerns the cases of teachers who are hired as technicians but who respond to teaching functions and to cases in which it is necessary to establish urgently the theatre recruitment and dramatic expression groups, as well as those of early intervention. The Portuguese Communist Party looks at the demand made by teachers, FENPROF and AFOMOS in the defense of the Portuguese Gesture Language and its appreciation, stressing that the time of service prior to professionalization needs to be taken into account. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the MEP of BE Joana Mortagua, who expressed them in Portuguese Gestal Language.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u133	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuela Tender has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to begin my speech with a very particular greeting on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to the 7331 petitioners who have subscribed to petition No 345 / XIII, who request the creation of a recruitment group for the Portuguese Gestual Language, petition submitted to this Chamber by FenPROF and AFOMOS, an organization representing the teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language. I also welcome, in particular, the representatives of the associations present in the galleries to attend the session and I thank the contributions and the civic participation initiative, the collective commitment to the inclusion of deaf students, the dignity, recognition, the valorization of the Portuguese Gestive Language teachers and the quality, demand and extension of the teaching of the Portuguese Gesture Language constitutionally consecrated as the third official language of the country and whose protection and valorization is the responsibility of the State. According to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is up to the State to « protect and value the Portuguese Gestive Language as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities». This citizen initiative, in the exercise of a right of political participation also enshrined in the Constitution, calls for the creation of a recruitment group of LGP teachers. In fact, as has already been said, there is discipline, which has a specific approved programme, there are classes, there is student evaluation, there is participation in meetings, etc. That is, there are activities common to teachers in other curricular areas, but they are not recognized as teachers, only as specialized technicians, without access to the teaching career and sometimes are placed late. The PSD Parliamentary Group has already expressed its agreement with the object of the petition, a position, indeed common to all benches, which also shows that this is a just cause that needs to be resolved. Parliament heard the petitioners, but the Special Education Working Group also heard citizens and entities who, individually or collectively, requested hearings on the subject. We welcome the consensus generated around this claim, which led to the unanimous approval of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 214 / 2017, which recommends to the Government the promotion, valorization and teaching of the LGP and, among other aspects, includes the creation of the recruitment group already mentioned. in our perspective, it is not only the labor rights of professionals, but also the requirement of an inclusive school that guarantees all equal opportunities for access and educational success and that it fully responds to the needs of each one, guaranteeing material and human resources and resources. This is therefore also a matter of human rights and full citizenship. We know that the Government considers the matter of the petition fair and that it has set up a working group with a view to its regulation. We also know that differences have arisen between the position of the Ministry of Education and that of the proposers with regard to the counting of service time prior to professionalization and that an opinion has been requested from the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which is expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u135	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u136	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The proposal of the Left Block, which is being discussed today by means of drag, seems to us to be timeless and inadequate, given the commitment of both parties involved in the negotiation process to follow the guidance of the opinion. In conclusion, Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group understands the urgency of the petitioners, because the profession must be properly regulated in order to be able to oppose the next competition, on the grounds that they have to wait for another four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u137	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u138	We believe that the government, having made this commitment, has to achieve this on the temporary horizon of the current legislation. Let us hope that the government will be up to its responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners who request the creation of a recruitment group for the Portuguese Gestual Language. We know that the appreciation of the Portuguese Gestal Language, as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities, is constitutionally enshrined. We also know that it is up to the State to comply with this fundamental right by promoting public education policies that create the best conditions for facilitating the learning of the gestual language. We also know that the Government Programme affirms the inclusion of all people in society as a priority. And the government is fulfilling and, yes, in keeping with its responsibilities, Mrs Maria Manuela Tender. The trade union negotiation was concluded for the creation of a recruitment group for the gestual language, thus recognizing the Portuguese Gestual Language trainers the integration into the teaching career. The claim contained in this petition is thus resolved, and the Government has unanimously complied with the resolution adopted in this House. We greet the Government for the recognition of the teaching condition to the Portuguese Gesture Language trainers. However, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not follow the initiative of the Left Block. We believe that the presentation of this draft resolution is extemporaneous. It was consensualized between the trade union structures and the Ministry of Education requesting the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic to provide a legal opinion on the counting of the time of service in the case under consideration. That is precisely the subject of the draft resolution of the Left Block. It makes no sense to be the Assembly of the Republic to propose to the Government actions which may lack legal basis. We should not take initiatives that make the technical and legal uncertainty worse. The Government is doing what needs to be done, with determination and rigour, giving due and fair public recognition to teachers of Portuguese Gestal Language. Furthermore, the appreciation of all teachers has been a desire assumed by this government, including in the construction of a public school of quality and inclusive, a sector where the Ministry of Education has been present and recognizes the enormous importance of the work performed by all its professionals. The government thus complies with the inclusive school and its entire community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u141	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS-PP, I welcome the rapporteurs. Petitioners who have applied for the creation of a recruitment group for the Portuguese Gestual Language. In this regard and with regard to teachers who minister the gesture language, the Left Block intended to present a draft resolution urging the Government to carry out the accounting of all the time of service provided during its possible integration into the teaching career. It should be noted that the total time of service that is provided, either before or after professionalization, has always been counted for seniority and retirement, but the same does not happen in progression or in the competition. Recalling recent news to the public and already mentioned here today, the Ministry of Education has requested an opinion on this matter to the Attorney-General of the Republic. Therefore, we are warned that the opinion in question is expected to be made final. Without prejudice and returning to the content of this petition, we reiterate the wording previously formulated by the CDS. Indeed, one of the instruments for the inclusion of deaf students in our teaching system—and perhaps the most significant—is the gestual language. It is through them that the deaf community communicates with each other and also with the other society. Although it is established that teaching is bilingual in reference schools, which serve indifferently deaf or hearing students, the truth is that the form of recruitment of teachers is not the same. These are hired as specialized technicians, being subject to variable settings in each school. However, essentially they perform the same functions as teachers in other languages, and this is undeniable. However, they may not be considered in the same way, particularly as regards terms of employment and status. Integrated into the already mentioned category of specialized technicians, teachers are often placed in school after the beginning of the school year. As a result, the Portuguese Gestual Language curriculum begins late, resulting in significant damage to deaf students. For the most part, the CDS-PP believes that the conditions for effective integration of the teaching body of schools must be guaranteed to enable them to carry out a full and articulated work with the other members of the class councils. The creation of a specific recruitment code for Portuguese Gestual Language teachers will allow them to stop being hired as technicians, thus developing a higher quality school for deaf students. Here, too, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic states that the State has an obligation to protect and value the Portuguese Gesture Language as a cultural expression and an instrument of access to education and equal rights of deaf people. in this follow-up, the CDS-PP has already presented a draft resolution, which was approved unanimously, in which, according to the request, recommended to the Government the creation of a recruitment group for these teachers to apply in the competition for the school year 2017 / 2018. of the various legislative initiatives resulted in the publication of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 214 / 2017, which included the above recommendation. Finally, Mr President, stressing that in the report accompanying the proposal for a State Budget for 2018, it has been said that « the completion of the process of establishing the group of teachers of Portuguese Gestual Language is already envisaged. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u143	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u144	As such, what has been petitioned is already in the hands of the government, so we understand that at least for the moment our margin of action is exhausted, but it is true that there remains a pending commitment that the government will honour or not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u145	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of The Greens in the discussion of this petition No 345 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) greets its subscribers and essentially direct a very particular greeting to its promoters, FenPROF and AFOMOS. from the Greens Ecological Party, we consider it very useful to present this petition to the Assembly of the Republic and its discussion. Despite what Parliament itself has already decided and also the agreement already established between trade union organisations and the Government, we believe that it is important time to discuss the content of this petition. in fact, the matter of valuing the gestual language is something that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic obliges us to do. by the Ecological Party « Les Verdes», we have, over the years, put forward proposals aimed at valuing the gestual language, not only in abstract valorisation, but in the creation of a concrete right to use and use, let us say, for example, of the Portuguese Gestual Language, either at the level of social media bodies — in this case in particular, televisions — or at the level of schools. The Greens therefore presented draft resolution No 569 / XIII ( 2 ) in time. a ), in order to promote the Portuguese Gestual Language in schools and the creation of a recruitment group for Portuguese Gestual Language teachers, considering that it is a right of deaf people but that it should also be extended the possibility of their learning to listeners so that this more inclusive society, this more inclusive school can, in fact, also go through better forms of communication. It is an important step that our society gives the fact that listeners can learn the Portuguese Gestive Language. Therefore, the appreciation of the Portuguese Gestal Language is also due to the appreciation of its professionals. We cannot fail to take into account the following: since everything that has already been achieved for the creation of this recruitment group is important, the ideal will even be that it can already be achieved in the coming school year. That would in fact be the ideal and an extremely positive point for this inclusiveness of our society. But the Greens cannot fail to mention the importance of counting the time of service prior to this professionalization in order to respect and value these professionals. I conclude by greeting once again the petitioners and the promoters of this petition who, in good time, arrived at the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u147	Mrs. Members, having completed the assessment of this point, we move to the following point, which is based on the assessment of petition No 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for the creation of better conditions of television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations ) in conjunction with draft resolutions 1275 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By better conditions of access of the deaf population to television ( PCP ), 1281 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with a view to the timing of measures aimed at the total accessibility of television content to the deaf community ( BE) and 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( PAN ). For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations ( FPAS ) and its representatives present here in plenary who have stimulated this petition, the more than 4100 signatories of this petition, which claim an improvement in the conditions of television accessibility for the deaf population in our country. A very fair claim, all the more so that the current reality effectively means discrimination, either by the shortage of hours of interpretation in Portuguese gestal language, either by the inadequacy of the current conditions of interpretation to the needs or by the absence of Portuguese legend. We are talking here about a reality that is very clear. According to the definitions of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), in addition to its multiannual plan, we speak of 20 hours a week in the RTP or 16 hours in private operators, information programmes, fictional programmes, documentaries or cultural magazines specifically intended for deaf people ; or 12 hours a week in the RTP and 6 hours in the private operators of informational, educational, cultural, recreational or religious programs with interpretation through Portuguese Gestive Language, including, on a weekly basis, the full interpretation of one of their news services during the night; or then, of 70 hours a year in the public service or 12 hours annually in the private operators of audio-description fiction programs or documentaries. These are the hours available and accessible to deaf people on television. This reality, in many cases, represents a real impediment to the accessibility of television broadcasts, questioning the right to inform themselves and to be informed, a constitutionally enshrined right. There are still communication barriers, difficulties for deaf people to access information and knowledge because there are still no solutions that ultimately eliminate these obstacles. The technological development that exists today allows us to find answers to these situations of discrimination, extending and improving the access of people with disabilities, of deaf people to television broadcasts. It is precisely in this sense that the CFP presents this draft resolution, considering it important to contribute to respond to the demands made in this petition and arguing that this path should be made with the involvement and active participation of the organizations representing people with disabilities, particularly the deaf community, and here we present a set of proposals to respond to the need for equal access to television broadcasts in Portugal. We propose that an analysis be carried out of the current conditions of interpretation of Portuguese Gestual Language in television broadcasts, identifying existing limitations and problems, as well as that adequate solutions should be built for them to be overcome, including the inclusion of legend in child programming as required, in fact, is also claimed by the petitioners and the increase in the number of hours of interpretation in Portuguese Gestual Language. The word 'inclusion' must correspond to the effectiveness in the life of every day of measures which implement rights and also guarantee equal opportunities. The CFP here leaves its contribution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u149	Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet the petitioners present in the galleries and, through the elements of the Portuguese Federation of Associations of the Deaf, also greet the whole deaf community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Imagine that most of the television programs they have access to were broadcast in a language that was foreign to you, which had only 12 hours a week of informational, educational, cultural, recreational or religious programs in Portuguese in the middle of a programming entirely in mandarim. They said they were discriminated against, and they would be right. Communication is the main obstacle to the inclusion of deaf people in society. The non-existence of accessibility conditions, either through the interpretation in gesture language or legend, preferably easy reading legend, means excluding deaf people from the exercise of full citizenship. It also means denying rights enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which, in Article 30. the, states that « the States parties recognise the right of all persons with disabilities to participate, on equal terms with others, in cultural life and take all appropriate measures to ensure that persons with disabilities have access to television programmes, films, theatre and other cultural activities in accessible formats ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u152	Furthermore, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has already expressed concern about the lack of access to information and communication in Portugal, and has recommended measures to strengthen legislation on access to information and communication in order to facilitate access to accessible formats for people with any type of disability. Currently, the Television and Audiovisual Services Act refers to the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication the establishment of multiannual plans defining the set of obligations relating to the accessibility of television programmes. however, if we project gradual compliance through these multi-year plans, which have already lasted for more than a decade, assuming that the small increase in accessibility defined in each plan remains, generations will pass until full accessibility is reached. This is unacceptable. We therefore follow the objectives of this petition and propose the setting up of a working group, with the aim of drawing up proposals, including legislative ones, which lead to the timing of measures aimed at the total accessibility of television content to the deaf community, and from now on the conviction that the scope of action of this working group should extend and cover the accessibility needs of all people with disabilities. It is time, in fact, to recognise the rights of people with disabilities. All rights are fulfilled in whole and not in weekly parcels. Respecting the deaf community means, for example, having these panels here in the Plenary every day. An inclusive television has to be completely sound. We're here to work for this with the deaf community, because nothing about us can be done without us. Let's do it! [[Congratulations from BE, expressed in Portuguese Gesture Language.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u153	To present draft resolution No 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As there are about 150 000 people with different degrees of hearing loss in Portugal and with enormous difficulties in access to information and entertainment, the situation that deserves our attention, we congratulate the petitioners on bringing this important issue to debate, which we accompany with an initiative. In short, our initiative aims to improve the public television service, ensuring the inclusion of subtitles in all children's programming, with the progressive extension of these programmes to programmes issued in different ways, as well as the current conditions for interpretation of Portuguese Gestual Language, in particular the reduced size of the « window ». On the other hand, it aims to set up a working group including the ERC, the various television operators and the representatives of the deaf and hearing impaired citizens, to analyse existing challenges and needs in order to improve the current situation and enhance legislative changes. The number of hours currently available on television using Portuguese gestual language legend or interpretation is too low and access to all the content issued must be ensured, which is essential for the construction of a more just and inclusive society.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u155	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, there are about 150 000 people who, with varying degrees of hearing impairment, including, obviously, total deafness, are away from the world with sound. It is a forced isolation, which sees them access to parts of life that the other privileged ones, who have access to this precious sense, take deceitfully for granted. The petition submitted by the Portuguese Federation of Associations of the Deaf, which we have discussed today, reminds the Members of the Assembly of the Republic that deaf people have the right to information, cultural use, leisure and entertainment; reminds us that television is one of the main means — and certainly the most transversal — of access to these rights; reminds us that this part of the population does not have access to many programmes spoken in Portuguese, or because they do not have translation into Portuguese Gesture Language, or because they do not have legend; it reminds us that the absence of legend essentially affects child and youth programming — practically all folded for Portuguese. This aspect is, in fact, a priority for petitioners, because it not only discriminates against deaf children but also prevents deaf parents of hearing children from accompanying and evaluating the programming to which their children attend. The petitioners tell us, about the lack of legend, some obvious things: that the development of the technological means to which we have witnessed in recent years could and should have solved the problem of legend in children's and young people's programmes, with absolutely negligible costs. They also tell us that technological solutions (from sound transfer to captions), once applied to this programming, can easily and progressively be applied successfully to the remaining programming, especially to programs issued in a different way. This can be done either via teletext, or via option from cable operators boxes. What about live programming? For live emissions we have the "window" with the translator or the translator to Portuguese Gestual Language. But how much time is it to be "spoken" in gesture? And is the size of the "window" fair and appropriate? And once again, the petition reminds us that the Constitution of the Republic officially consecrates the Portuguese Gesture Language, that for 150 000 citizens this is its first language, its mother tongue, and that access to programming in its language is much less than what they want and what they are entitled to. The petitioners also remind us that we are linked to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of the UN, to the General Bases of the Legal Regime of Prevention, Rehabilitation and Participation of Persons with Disabilities, which prohibits and imposes discrimination on the basis of disability, and also to the law regulating access to television activity. We also have a regulatory entity that must be vigilant, demanding and intervening. All these instruments, to which the Portuguese State and all of us are linked, oblige us to ensure access to information and the elimination of barriers due to disability. However, we do not ignore that the law already envisages this adaptation by 2020 and, of course, in the CDS, we will not fail to pay attention to its compliance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u157	Mr Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the more than 4000 petitioners, who, in the exercise of their citizenship, brought to the discussion « the creation of better conditions of television accessibility for the deaf Portuguese population », and to say that, by analyzing the object of petition No 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and the three draft resolutions, the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN, which entered the last week, we can conclude that the concern around the issue today under discussion is consensual. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has reaffirmed an important pillar of our society, equality and non-discrimination, stressing the importance of the obligation to raise society's awareness of disability. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to petitioners, there are in Portugal about 150 000 people with different degrees of deafness, to whom television access with legend is forbidden, which discriminates not only deaf children but also deaf parents of hearing children and violates the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. This means that these parents are prevented from evaluating or monitoring the television programming seen by their children. The navigation menus and the reduced dimension of the « window » are also a concern, which makes it difficult for the correct and concrete interpretation of the message conveyed in Portuguese Gestual Language. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that this matter must be seen with some concern. in the framework of the multiannual plans approved by the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, where the obligations relating to the accessibility of television programmes are laid down, it has also assumed that there are points to be improved with regard to the accessibility of television programming services for people with special needs. However, it should be noted that the obligations described in the plans only bind television operators subject to national jurisdiction, excluding international operators occupying cable channels. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is associated with the concerns of the petitioners, which we welcome because we believe they are current and relevant. It is important to look closely at the problem that we are discussing and, by its nature, an answer is required. I conclude, Mr President, not before thanking the services for the availability of audiovisual media, which allowed petitioners to follow this plenary session clearly. It is up to us, the Assembly of the Republic, to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of the subject under discussion and also to set an example, with the transmission of the largest number of hours in Portuguese Gesture in the television broadcasts of ARTTV. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u159	For an intervention, representing the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must first of all welcome on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations, as well as all the subscribers of the petition we have now discussed. The participation of citizens through the exercise of the right of petition in the Assembly of the Republic is an open instrument of democracy which deserves the recognition and appreciation of the Parliament of the Portuguese Republic. Today, we are discussing improving accessibility to television programme services and audiovisual services on demand by citizens with special needs. That is the purpose of petition No 382 / XIII ( 2. a ) aims to achieve, as well as the solutions enshrined in the draft resolutions of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Block of Left and the PAN. Today, this debate, fortunately, can be accompanied by citizens with special needs on the canal of Parliament on their various platforms. However, if we withdrew the interpretation "window" in Portuguese Gestual Language, the deaf community, in particular, would be unable to attend and access the information of our work and the debate on this issue, which affects them so much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without legend, and if we also removed the sound from our television, the effect would be exactly the same — a silence and an empty one. The Regulatory Report of the Competent Entity for the year 2016 points out that there is still a long way to go for television, public and private programme service operators to observe the accessibility obligations enshrined in the Multiannual Plan prepared by the ERC under the Television and Audiovisual Services to Request Act. The creation by the Government of a working group, involving the relevant government departments — Ministries of Culture and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security —, the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, the agents and representatives of the deaf community, including the Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations and the National Commission for Deaf Youth, as well as programme service operators, is a proposal that gathers our support and full agreement. Such a path, seeking solutions to overcome the constraints that affect the deaf community daily in access to television and audiovisual program services, is a first step towards further building a society that is more equal and promotes inclusion, valuing people and all their potential. If this problem affects one of our citizens, it affects Portugal as a whole. on this path, petitioners and the government can rely on the commitment of the Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u161	The last intervention on this point was by Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Greens would like to welcome petitioners No 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), and also its promoters, specifically the Portuguese Federation of Associations of the Deaf. We consider this petition to be very relevant. Moreover, in all sessions and initiatives promoted by the Portuguese Federation of Associations of the Deaf ( FPAS ) and by their own associates, the recurring issue that is transmitted to us is that of the clear inadequacy of the number of hours in which there is availability of interpretation of the language of gesture or legend on television, and therefore what the deaf clearly feel is that there is clear discrimination regarding their right to information, their right to knowledge and their right to communication. Therefore, we are faced with a clear form, or practice, so let us say discriminatory and I think that it is up to us, the Assembly of the Republic, to act in order to eradicate all forms of discrimination. This is something to which the Greens have given particular attention, also at parliamentary level, we shall vote in favour of all the initiatives put forward and we believe that we must take effective steps — and the Government cannot, of course, resign itself from this responsibility — in the sense of television programming being fully served, so let us say, by interpretation of Portuguese gestual language or by way of legend. Moreover, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is very clear in this regard, stressing the right of deaf people to receive information on an equal basis with the general public. This is precisely what is being denied to them! There is another point that these associations have also given us regular account, which is the fact that the "box" where the gestual-language interpreter is too small, and therefore often the message that is being passed is difficult to grasp. I think it is a matter for which we should also be sensitive, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that when the "box" was determined with the Gesture Language Interpreter, one of the main arguments against it, let us say, or doubt it was that the "box" ended up making it difficult for the general view of the image, as if the priority was that rather than ensuring equal communication to all Portuguese. But the truth is, today, listeners look at the images and, in fact, do not give by the existence of the « box ». So this is all a matter of habit, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is basically a question of the right to equality that we must all have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u163	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u164	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, one of the work we must also do is to expand, i.e. to increase that « box », so that in fact that right to equality and clear perception of communication is effective. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u165	With this speech by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we are closing the debate on petition No 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) together with draft resolutions Nos 1275, 1281 and 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We moved on to the fifth item on the agenda, which deals with the analysis of draft resolution No 1265 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a possible committee to monitor the process of defining « Portugal 2030 strategy » within the framework of the multiannual financial framework ( PS )-2020. Mrs. Members, before giving the floor, to present this draft resolution on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group to Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, I would ask the House to remain silent, because there is a huge background noise which does not allow Mr. Members are speaking, as is your right. You have the floor, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has already spent a little more than 30 years in the implementation of Community funds and these 30 years of implementation have largely contributed to the transformation of the country's face, a transformation in fields as diverse as the infrastructures or the qualification of Portuguese. These 30 years also show that sometimes not everything is positive on the impact of Community funds, in particular because the Community funds require a national counterpart, and the referral of national resources to this national counterpart necessarily conditioned the areas in which public investment was made in Portugal over the last 30 years. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this experience reminds us that it is necessary to make choices, that not everything can be a priority and that the essence of policy is choice and these choices must be present and discussed at the headquarters, par excellence, of the democratic political debate, which is this, the Assembly of the Republic. The European Commission has already started the public discussion on the post-2020 multiannual financial framework last January, and the Portuguese Government has also begun an extended debate around the Portugal 2030 national strategy. The Assembly of the Republic should not be alien to this debate... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u167	... and it is in this sense that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes the establishment of a possible committee, through the present draft resolution. A committee which does not intend to replace the other committees — the standing committees which, of course, will continue to do their work in their areas of expertise — but, as it is, in fact, planned on this initiative, must collect these contributions. A possible committee that can allow a structured reflection, enhancing all contributions and thus also contributing to a more solid definition of a better national strategy for a process that will necessarily condition the country's development model throughout the next decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u168	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascenção.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Obviously, the multiannual financial framework after-2020 is a fundamental instrument for the country's future and the priorities set there are that they will determine whether this instrument will improve competitiveness, whether it will improve the country's situation in terms of social inequalities and territorial cohesion. As Mr. Rocha Andrade very well said, the policy is to make choices and here we will choose which country we want: whether we want a competitiveness based on qualification and on activities of high value added or whether we want a competitiveness, as has been the choice followed in recent years, based on cheap labour, disqualification and precariousness. This is because this issue of competitiveness is not always reconciled with social and territorial cohesion, and this is a debate involved in great hypocrisy, because measures have been adopted in the name of competitiveness and the creation of wealth that have led to the increase of inequalities and the worsening of poverty. As it has been known in recent years, employment growth has not allowed poverty risk rates to be reduced in our country and, therefore, it is a choice to make: if we want to have as reference the most developed societies, where the level of inequalities is not so large, or if we want to have as reference other poorer countries, where there is a high level of inequalities. This speech is very interesting, that improving competitiveness, modernizing the country, reducing social inequalities and the demographic challenge are also a choice. The demographic challenge is, above all, about the stability of people's lives, the quality of employment, the level of remuneration, the precariousness and the choices we have seen by the previous government, which have aggravated the problem of demography. And despite the good intentions contained in the Programme of this Government, effective measures are slow to emerge. The honourable Member mentioned the past, which we have already had extensive experience, 30 years of application, and we have had good implementation rates for the Community funds. Quantity does not mean quality and, as he also pointed out, the choices were not always the best. There was a preference for speculative investments to the detriment of productive investments that led to imbalance in the occupation of the territory, to favor individual transport over the collective, and this had its environmental costs, to aggravation of energy turnover, to urban disorder, to an increase in travel times, to stress, and this had costs for public health and to reduce productivity. It is good that we make the right choices this time, and also that there is all the rigour in monitoring the implementation of the funds, because there has not always been transparency and clarity in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u171	Finally, to ensure that, in the name of territorial equality, there is also adequate treatment of the outermost regions, to compensate them for the isolation, the remoteness of the continent and the higher cost of living resulting from this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u172	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, the Socialist Party of 3 February is in favour of possible committees to deal with issues relevant to the future of Portuguese and Portugal, but as you know, as you know, it has not always been so, or it has rarely been so. I remind the honourable Member that this House has approved an eventual State Reform Commission and that the Socialist Party has committed the remarkable feat of not even indicating the Members to join this Commission. [[PS protests.]] More recently, the Social Democratic Party proposed to this House the creation of a possible committee to discuss the future of social security and the Socialist Party voted radically against, voted against and prevented the creation of a possible committee. But Mr President, the PSD will be in this committee to work and vote for its establishment, because it really believes that this issue must be discussed extensively with all Portuguese, with all its representatives, and that this Parliament cannot escape a fundamental discussion for the future of the country, for the implementation of a programming cycle that will be essential to the modernisation of its economy, not with this prospect of the Left Block, with certainty that not, but above all, for the country to gain more competitiveness, for the Portuguese and Portuguese companies to gain a challenge in the future. But there is now a warning, Mr President, that we will not be available to integrate a committee of account and what the Government has given in recent months about the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 is very bad signs about the future. If the Government and the Socialist Party understand that this committee is merely a simulation to pretend that we are discussing, that we are consensualizing, that we are dealing with what is important for the future of the country and will continue, on the back of Parliament and on the back of the Portuguese, to make important decisions about this future, let the Socialist Party disengage itself from the Government because the Democratic Social Party will not be available to participate in this simulation and pretend that we are discussing important things for the future of the country. If this committee is really a committee that wants to deal seriously and deeply with everything the country has to face as challenges, it will count on us. Otherwise, you will not have the PSD to pretend, once again, that seriously and deeply discuss the issues that matter to the Portuguese and Portugal, because of them it depends on their future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u174	You now have the floor, Mr Bruno Dias, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the CFP Parliamentary Group, we express our agreement and willingness to contribute to an extended debate, also in the Assembly of the Republic, on the strategic options at stake for the next multiannual financial framework, with some comments that we would like to leave now. We cannot have a short-term critical vision, we must have a vision that allows us to go to the deepest causes and not only to the symptoms of this objective reality which becomes increasingly evident: throughout the five Community frameworks, so far, regional asymmetries and social inequalities have been accentuated rather than diminished. That is to say, it is also essential to reflect on the path we have travelled so far and on the errors and negative options for our development and the current state in which our country and the Portuguese people are in relation to the development conditions in which the strategies and policy options in the implementation of these Community support frameworks have been translated. Mrs. Members, the Community funds cannot be a kind of currency of exchange, in fact, subject to increasing restrictions as the so-called 'cohesion policy' is falling to, supposedly, promote integration which has actually translated and translated into a policy of colonial subjugation, imposed on countries and peoples and, in particular, on Portugal and the Portuguese people. This reality cannot be hidden or ignored in the debate that we have before us, because the question that arises, so many and so many times, is up to the decisions that we then take on the management and implementation of the funds, it is in the partnership agreements, it is in the macroeconomic conditionalities, it is in the rules that want us to impose, which are authentic collections of forces, deep constraints on development and the sovereign options that a country must have and should be allowed to move forward, to grow and develop. What this means is that, at national level, the application and management of Community funds, either at the level of Portugal's position in this political debate, which we need to raise, as regards options, up to which these frameworks and these funds are determined, sometimes even it seems that there are certain choices that we cannot make, because someone has already made them for us, and this is unacceptable. We have the right to development, we have the right to sovereignty and we must defend those rights as a country. This is also what will be on the table in the debate ahead. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u176	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let us now begin a discussion, which is already delayed, on the next multiannual financial framework. Very likely, from April or May the European Commission will start this dialogue with the various countries, around lines that are important, also in the Assembly of the Republic, we have the ability to discuss. We know the importance of Community funds, as we normally call them for the development of the Portuguese economy, for the qualification of Portuguese workers, even from the point of view of the exploitation of our human resources. We know how important it has been since accession to use many of these funds to reduce inequalities, to promote the Portuguese economy, from the point of view of growth and competitiveness, and also to work on qualification, which is always very important. in this sense, it is always important to remind ourselves that these funds also serve to ensure greater cohesion within the European Union. The European Union is a political project, but it is a political project that has coupled a social dimension and an economic dimension. This cohesion value is a very important value, especially at a time when the possibility of changing the logic of cohesion money is discussed. Portugal cannot, nor should, accept something like that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u178	That is why, in a debate on this dimension, the CDS quickly said clearly and initially what were the most important, most fundamental issues in the next Community framework. And we said this by presenting, in this Parliament, a legislative initiative which clearly lists four fundamental objectives. The first objective is to meet the goals of sustainable development, as set by the United Nations, in matters such as climate change, such as structural issues about water and drought, such as the decarbonization of our economy and, linked to it, in matters such as soft mobility, with the replacement of individual transport by public transport. A second area, for us, very relevant is that of social and territorial cohesion. Unfortunately, the tragedy that Portugal lived in 2017, with the fires, reminded us once again of the fundamental importance of allocating Community funds to reduce this territorial inequality. A third area, also very relevant to us, is that of demography, an area which, we understand, must be worked on in a dual sense, in order to achieve a change in the low birth rate, which, unfortunately, we have — 2017 was the worst year of the century in this matter — and also in a dimension of active aging, which is very relevant. A fourth area, always fundamental, is that of investment and competitiveness. Of course, we will not be opposed to the establishment of a possible committee to allow Parliament to discuss these matters, but we believe that an external committee, headed by the Government, of course, should be set up, which brings together social partners, social partners, representatives of economic sectors, agriculture, representatives of consumer rights, many representatives of the so-called civil society... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u179	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u180	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we believe that an external committee, led by the Government, should be set up, which brings together various representatives of civil society, so that more structurally we can also discuss this matter. This committee must be set up outside the scope of the Assembly, but we will certainly not be against the creation of a committee that may be limited in time within the Assembly of the Republic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u181	There are no entries from any other parliamentary group, still available in time, to use the floor before the PS Parliamentary Group, to close the debate, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating myself on the support, or not on the opposition, as the case may be, for this initiative of the Socialist Party and, now, for replying to Mr Leite Ramos, who directly questioned me, making some objections, in addition to the obvious, that today is not 3 February but, yes, 2 February. The Socialist Party agrees with your statement that we should not go into accounting committees. In view of the role played by the Government of the former Parliament in terms of state reform, I do not know any better example for an account debate than this one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as this committee is concerned, Mr President, the Socialist Party is currently limited to proposing it and affirming its commitment to this debate. The outcome of the debate in committee will be that of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have joined her want and know how to present it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u183	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on draft resolution No 1265 / XIII ( 3 ) is concluded. ( a ), of PS. The following point in our order of business relates to Bill No. 758 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the mandate of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of fires occurring between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ), which does not have time allocated. We shall therefore proceed to the statutory voting period, to which we shall carry out the verification of the quorum of deliberation using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 214 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Mr André Silva, of the PAN, and Pedro Pinto, of the PSD and myself, thanking 217 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, we begin by voting No 470/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Edmundo Pedro, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u184	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic testifies to the death of the anti-fascist fighter and former Member Edmundo Pedro. Born in Lisbon, on November 8, 1918, he worked early on the causes of freedom. At the age of 15, he was arrested for preparing a strike at the Arsenal of the Alfeite. His civic and political courage, during the lead years of the dictatorship, was worth the passage through Caxias, Peniche and Aljube, as well as the terrible field of Tarrafal, Cape Verde. Already in democracy, he joined the Socialist Party, having been elected Member of the Assembly of the Republic in I, II, III and V legislatures, always by the circle of Lisbon. Between 1977 and 1978 he presided over RTP. This leaves us, just before the age of 100, a moral reference to democratic citizenship, whose life was confused with the struggles for democracy and freedom during the 20th century. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express to the Socialist Party, to Edmundo Pedro's family and friends the greatest sense of regret over his disappearance and the greatest tribute to his civic example."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u185	Mrs. Members, I inform you that they are present at the family galleries and friends of Edmundo Pedro, including the President of the Association 25 April, Vasco Lourenço. We shall vote for vote No 470/ XIII, which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u187	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u188	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that the CFP will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote No 471/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — In spite of the International Day in Memory of Victims of the Holocaust, presented by the CDS-PP and PS and subscribed by PSD Members, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u190	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « After more than 70 years of the liberation of one of the most notorious camps of Nazi concentration, Auschwitz-Birkenau, the Assembly of the Republic again solemnly associates itself with the evocation that pays tribute to the victims of the Nazi persecutions during the Second World War, giving content, for its part, to the Resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, which consecrated on 27 January as the International Day in Memory of the Holocaust Victims, and to one of its main objectives, promoting the education of young people over one of the most tragic periods of humanity, preserving their historical memory. It is important not to forget that history happens, to a large extent, by means of human action. The Nazi genocide tragically demonstrated how a modern nation was able to use its technological experience and bureaucratic infrastructure to realize a brutal plan of annihilation against the Jewish people and so many others. Because of this dramatic past, it is disturbing to observe, today, the deeply disturbing signs of escalating anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred and prejudice, often amplified by social networks and other platforms. Its aggravation justifies a thoughtful but urgent reflection on the need to adapt the response of states of democratic law to these phenomena. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to all the victims of the Nazi genocide, renewing the imperative to keep their memory alive and promoting two allusive exhibitions to the Holocaust: To remember — the fate of Jewish children of Bavaria at the time of national socialism, the authorship of students of the Friedrich-Rückert High School in Ebern, Germany — and Counting the Holocaust, in the context of a school contest promoted by Memoshoá, Association Memory and Teaching of the Holocaust ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u191	Mrs. Members, first of all, I should like to inform you that there are numerous ambassadors and members of the diplomatic corps in the galleries and also the President of the Israeli Community of Lisbon and the President of the Memoshoá. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 471/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u192	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u193	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u194	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that we shall deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u195	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following these two votes, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now have to vote on vote No 472 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning detention of Palestinian children in Israel, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Deputies. I ask the Secretary, Mr Moisés Ferreira, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 15, 2017, Mohammed Tamimi, a 14-year-old Palestinian youth, was shot in the head with a rubber bullet by Israeli occupation forces. While fighting for his life, Mohammed underwent intensive surgery where part of his skull was removed. An hour later, the same forces that shot Mohammed Tamimi entered his cousin's house, Ahed Tamimi. This 16-year-old girl, failing to see her demand to withdraw these highly armed military forces from her property and evidently angry after her cousin was shot, blew one of the soldiers. Consequently, Ahed Tamimi was arrested, just like his mother and his cousin. Ahed was brought before a military court and charged with 12 crimes, so he may incur a prison sentence of up to 10 years — a clearly disproportionate punishment. It is noted that these military courts are only used to judge Palestinians and have a conviction rate of 99, 74 %, so Ahed's freedom is strongly threatened. Unfortunately, this situation is not unique to Ahed Tamimi, as hundreds of Palestinian children are taken annually to military court and arrested, some only 13 years old. In addition, in 2013 Unicef published a report entitled Children in Israeli military detention: observations and recommendations, which concluded that ‘ the ill-treatment to which children are subjected in contact with the military prison system is a widespread, systemic and institutionalized practice throughout the process, from the moment of detention to the indictment and condemnation of the child. ’ These conducts constitute a clear violation of children's rights, human rights and international law. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the detention of Palestinian children in Israeli prisons, including that of Ahed Tamimi, calls for its end and expresses its solidarity with the victims and their families of the practice of detention of Palestinian children in Israel ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u197	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 472 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, the votes against the PSD and the members of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro and the abstention of the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u198	They're kids! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u199	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u200	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u201	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u202	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u203	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u205	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CDS board will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to vote No 473 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemnation of testing in humans and monkeys in the German automotive industry, submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS and PSD Members. I ask the Secretary, Mr Moisés Ferreira, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was public knowledge in January this year that the Volkswagen Groups, Daimler ( e.g. Mercedes) and BMW will have resorted to human beings and symposia to test emissions of pollutant gases associated with their motor vehicles, through the European Association of Health and Environment Studies in Transport ( EUGT ), an institute financed by the three manufacturers. Experiences, which occurred between 2012 and 2015, involved exposure for several hours to different concentrations of toxic and proven carcinogenic fumes, in particular nitrogen dioxide (NO2). These tests are abominable and contradict European ethical principles. It is unacceptable that European and scientific companies in the 21st century should base the development of diesel engine technology or any other technology in the use of human guinea pigs or sims. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the use of human beings and symposia as guinea pigs in the automotive industry in tests of exposure to pollutants."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u208	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 473 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 474/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Congratulations to the Portuguese mountaineer and skier Ángelo Felgueiras, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members. I ask Mr Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote shall be as follows: « Angelo Felgueiras, born in 1964, became the first Portuguese to reach the South Pole on foot, one of the most inaccessible and distant places on the planet, on 14 January 2018, after an expedition of more than 1000 km, travelled on skis in 57 days of intense effort. The country watched excitedly, through the stories and images that were coming, at its glorious journey. As the subway moved forward, the confidence in Portuguese and the prestige of our country were strengthened. Experienced and respected pilot, married and father of three children, has been adventured around the world for more than 20 years. They are, in fact, facets that are not always distinguished, because this philosophy of life is not exhausted in its adventurism and is always present. Invulgently capable and determined man, Angel Felgueiras lives as a scale and ski: with intensity, dedication and discipline. Not being a mountaineer, nor a professional skier, he successfully completed, in two decades, the designated project of ‘Seven Summits’, overcoming the highest mountain of each continent and in the space of six days carried out an expedition to the North Pole in April 2013. What is most impressive in Angelo Felgueiras is that these challenges have always been overcome for the benefit of social causes, supporting jointly different projects and associations, such as the Youth Mill Association, the Galician ATL or the Accreditation. Recently, and following the example of previous campaigns, for each meter travelled, it was added €1 to the Accreditation Association. Moved by the spirit of Portuguese discoveries, Angel Felgueiras awakens the noblest of the aspirations of our society, solidarity, uniting us and inspiring us with the simple gift of itself. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the Portuguese Angel Felgueiras, recognizing the greater dimension of its facts and its greatness of character».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to inform you that the skier Ángelo Felgueiras is present in the galleries. We shall vote on vote No 474 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] We turn to vote No 475/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings to the Centre for Medical Genetics Dr. Jacinto Magalhães, submitted by The Greens and subscribed by PS Deputies. I ask Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In 1971 it was created the consultation of medical genetics at the Maria Pia Children's Hospital, in Porto. On 31 January 1980 this consultation takes place at the Institute of Research in Medical Genetics. In its formative aspect of specialized human resources, research and organization of the Genetic Conferences joined the creation of the Fonseca and Castro Prize in 1984. Born in Porto, the Institute contributed, for its national and international prestige, to the development of medical genetics in Portugal, to the creation of a speciality, the laboratory specialization of various valences, the articulation of prenatal diagnosis with a medical service for the interruption of pregnancy (after the approval of the exclusion of the illegality of the interruption of pregnancy due to genetic causes in 1984 ) and the creation of the Portuguese Society of Human Genetics. The Ministry of Health recognized the value of the Institute of Medical Genetics as an example of a modeling institution, especially in contributing to the improvement of Portuguese health conditions in the prevention of disability, highlighting its national and international projection, which is recognition of its technical quality. Associated with the Center for Medical Genetics, it is the name of Dr. Jacinto de Magalhães, creator of the consultation of medical genetics and the center, doctor and singular poet recognized for their scientific and human qualities, unconformed fighter against genetic cause diseases, having had since had the clear perception of the impact that genetics would have on the medicine of the years to come. Appointed in 1986 as Director-General of Hospitals, he died early in 1987. at a time when 79 is signed. the anniversary of the birth of the founder of this institution — January 31, 2018 —, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the Center of Medical Genetics Doctor Jacinto de Magalhães for the important contribution that has been made in preventing disability and for advances made at the level of medical genetics».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u212	Mrs. Members, let us vote 475 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u213	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u214	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u215	Mr President, it is to inform you that, with regard to this vote, the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1245 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the date of the travel of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 523 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a single national register and a specific economic activity code ( EAC ) for the fun traveling economic activity referred to as « entertainment roaming activity » ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Bill No. 523 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u217	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u218	Mr Nuno Sá, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u219	Mr President, it is only to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on Bill No 753 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates economic activity codes for leisurely travelling economic activities ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1282/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the measures for the viability of the field of fun roaming undertakings provided for in Resolution No 80/2013 ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1079 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion and valuation of the Gonçalo basket ( Guarda ) ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, if there are no objections, we shall jointly vote on draft resolutions Nos 1276 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance and promote the basket of Gonçalo ( PCP ) and 1278 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Gonçalo basket in the district and county of Guarda ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall continue, with the general vote on Bill No 683/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality admitted to State institutions or comparable ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 687 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and the seventh amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Labour Act in Public Functions ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the Greens CFP and the NAP.]] We will vote for Bill No. 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP of The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] We proceeded to the vote on Bill No 748 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amended Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, and Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works, restating the value of additional work and compensatory rest ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the Greens CFP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u221	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u222	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u223	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote on these last three draft laws I will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u224	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote together four requests, submitted by the Greens, the NAP, the BE and the CFP respectively, asking for the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting and for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein. 581 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ban on the marketing of disposable meal utensils in plastic ( The Greens ), 752 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-use of disposable plastic dishes in certain catering sectors ( PAN), 747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastics and provides for the transition to new materials and practices ( BE) and 754 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation to provide consumers with an alternative to the distribution of disposable meal utensils in plastics, in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments ( CFP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1286 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote studies on alternatives to the use of disposable plastic dishes, carry out awareness-raising campaigns to reduce their use and define a strategy for the gradual reduction of their use ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the BE and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1283 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the accounting of all the time of service provided by Portuguese Gestive Language teachers for the purposes of integration into the teaching career ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1275 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By better conditions of access of the deaf population to television ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1281 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with a view to the timing of measures aimed at the total accessibility of television content to the deaf community ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1265 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a possible committee to monitor the process of defining « Portugal 2030 strategy » within the framework of the multiannual financial framework ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, of Bill No 758 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the mandate of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of fires occurring between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1107 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and therefore rescue and rescue teams (NAPs) are created. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE and the NAP and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment ( BE ), 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarify and strengthen the rights of workers in the event of transmission of a company or establishment ( PCP ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by modifying the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( NAP ), and 606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u226	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u227	Mr President, it is to require the Bureau to register Mr José Moura Soeiro for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u228	Surely, Mr President, I will give you the floor at the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u230	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u231	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to indicate that Mrs Rita Rato will make the oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u233	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u234	Is it for the same purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u235	Yes, Mr President, and the oral vote will be made by Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u237	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u238	Do you also ask for the floor to do the same, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u239	Yes, Mr President, and to indicate that the oral vote will be made by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Does the PS not want to register anyone, since all parliamentary groups register to produce oral explanations of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u241	Mr President, I shall produce an oral vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group at the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u242	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, there are three reports and opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask the Secretary, Mr. Pedro Alves, to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Commercial Arbitration Centre of the Portuguese Chamber of Commerce and Industry — Case No 7 / 2017 / AHC / ASB —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Secretary, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of Judge 3 of the Local Criminal Court of Leiria of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Leiria — Case No 121 / 13.OPFLRA —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize the Member of the Assumption Cristas ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony as a witness in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u246	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of Judge 15 of the Central Criminal Court of Lisbon of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Case No 3902 / 13.OJFLSB —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u249	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u251	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau. I believe that Mr President did not announce it, but the PSD also voted against the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u252	It was announced that the PSD voted against, yes, Mr. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the oral explanations of vote. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and other parties supporting the Government, in a comprehensive final vote, have adopted amendments to the Labour Code relating to the transmission of undertakings and establishments. First of all, I mean they're a bad solution to a real and serious problem. In fact, whenever one tries to legislate based on a particular case, the end result is to make mistakes and these mistakes affect all companies and the economy. in this legislative process, the PS gave in to virtually everything that the Left Block and the PCP wanted and the CDS considers that it is not possible to accept that, on the pretext of PT / Altice, the State will interfere in all businesses in which companies or establishments are bought or sold. We believe that these amendments call into question the right of companies to self-organise themselves and economic freedom itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u254	Poor Altice!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u255	...open the way to control by the state of the economy, something the radical left always wanted and what the PS ended up yielding. This is unacceptable in a country of the European Union and will ultimately harm the economy, investors and employment. [[BE's protests.]] In fact, it is done without even attempting any social agreement. The PS, the Left Block and the PCP replaced the dialogue with the imposition. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u256	They changed the Labour Code, which was the result of a social agreement and put off that agreement, leaving only the business between the parties of the left majority. More: instead of making a coherent revision of the Labour Code, they do so in benefits, in successive negotiations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u257	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u258	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is obvious that it deserves our most complete censorship. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u259	For an oral vote, Mrs Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u260	Mr President, I begin by informing the House that is present in the Gallery I, the representative structures of the workers of PT, whose members the Socialist Party greets, especially because of the solidarity, perseverance and maturity they have been able to show in this process. Yes, I say maturity, because they immediately understood and accepted that the Socialist Party did not legislate for a company, the Socialist Party legislated for a principle. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u261	It is not acceptable that, at the palate of an abusive and fraudulent interpretation of the law, distorting and distorting the objective of the directive that had given it its origin, speculating and violating rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u262	We would also like to stress that for us it was very rewarding to go along this path with the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party and that, despite the very identity of each party and its different perspectives, the result to which we have come shows that it is possible to build together something positive and truly useful to the society where we live, because it contributes to the common good of workers and companies. In fact, we have succeeded, the three parties, not interfering with the internal organisation of companies and preserving their independence, densifying concepts, clarifying and strengthening the rights of workers, clarifying the situation. Finally, I would like to add the following: at the last meeting of the working group, we were accused on the right to be promoting labour conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u263	You've outlived your time. I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u264	I conclude now, Mr President. Now, you can only say one thing about those who don't have the slightest idea about what's going on in business. Work Conflict...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u265	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u266	...is the one that exists now. There is only work conflict when workers are mistreated, when their rights are mirrored and violated. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u267	For an oral vote, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, there is an important legislative process which is proof that it has been and that it is worth fighting, it is always worth fighting. [[PCP applause.]] in this legislative process, in which the CFP is proud to have participated, the right of opposition was enshrined and also an important matter, which is the safeguard of rights within collective bargaining with respect to workers who are transmitted. This process gives more strength to the struggle of workers, which continues, which will have to continue. From now on, it will be more difficult for other companies to do what Altice has done and to use the company and establishment transmission mechanism to promote redundancies and to reduce workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u269	To the disgust of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u270	in this process, we would obviously like to address a greeting word to workers and their representative structures. It was exactly from his intervention, his struggle days and his persistence that it was possible to reach this point. [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, if anyone deserves a word of greeting are the representative structures of workers and workers of PT. [[PCP applause.]] It was also important to say here, concerning the 100 workers who have already been transmitted — and that it was because the Altice resorted unlawfully and abusively to a rule in the Labour Code — that the Government cannot exempt itself from responding to these workers and that it is important to guarantee all measures that are within its reach to safeguard their rights, particularly in the context of collective bargaining. This is the commitment of the CFP: to work in all scenarios so that it is possible to safeguard the rights of workers in this process. PT / Altice was the example that justified this legislative process, but not just. So on the side of the CFP we welcome this process and we note that we are on the side of strengthening workers'rights. Exactly because we are discussing matters of strengthening workers' rights, we know that we cannot count on the PSD and the CDS, but that is also life. The fight outside will continue. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u271	For an oral vote, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u272	Mr President, my first word is to greet the workers of the PT who are in the galleries. The approval of this project, as has already been said, is a victory not of the Left Block, not of the PCP, not of the PS, not of the PAN, but, first of all, of your struggle and your mobilization. My second word is for the workers who have already been transmitted fraudulently: we do not forget you and do not give up fighting for your reintegration. My third word is for Altice. A few days after a company's manoeuvre to condition Parliament, and knowing of the non-compliance not only of labour but of the most basic public service obligations, in particular to fire victims, Altice today has the reply of the Republic : no company is above the law. If they wanted a sign from Parliament, here they have a sign from Parliament, with this law. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] This law is a message to Altice, and to all beekeepers, that Portugal is not a « Republic of bananas » and it is proof that the Labour Code can and should be changed. And it's on the left that the reforms the country needs. in consecrating the right of opposition, we are saying that the worker is not a commodity, without rights or will. by clarifying the concept of economic unity, we are fighting the manipulation of the law. by extending the duty of information, we are creating mechanisms to combat fraud, we are giving guarantees to workers and to the Act (Working Conditions Authority) to act. This law will certainly not be perfect, but its approval, not solving all the problems, is unequivocal proof to the workers that it is worth fighting, that it is possible to have a victory and that there is here, in this Parliament, who stands up for them. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u273	Finally, you have the floor for a statement of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall focus my speech on what has been approved here in this House, i.e. amendments to the legal regime for the transmission of undertakings or establishments, which bring a set of uncertainties, legal errors, and which do not adequately safeguard workers' rights. If not, let us look at some of the examples of this legal uncertainty. It says the final text that the worker may object to the transmission of the establishment if he has "serious damage". It is for the worker to prove the ‘serious injury’. What if the employer doesn't accept, what happens to the employment contract? What is the situation of the worker? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] In the final instance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the assessment of this undetermined concept of "serious injury" will have to be resolved by the courts, but, meanwhile, the worker is waiting for the court's decision, he is unemployed and without compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u275	But does this concern the PSD? Oh, my God! What happens to the workers worries the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u276	More: What if the court finds that there is no fair cause? In other words, if the court finds that the worker had no reason to settle the contract of employment?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u277	And, now, how are you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u278	You know what might happen, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? What can happen is that the worker, in addition to losing his job, loses the right to compensation and the right to unemployment benefit and may still have to compensate the employer for the damage caused. That's what the ladies are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen have approved! [[PCP protests.]] This is what this left-wing majority has approved here today in plenary, totally against the workers, which you say you want to caution. It was in such a hurry that they wanted to legislate, on a particular case, and expressly enshrined the right of opposition which did not precaution the causes, nor even the consequences, of that right of opposition. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] On the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you the following: has this parliamentary group called attention to these uncertainties, has asked for clarifications before the vote at Commission level, and you know what the Socialist Party's response was? If there is any conflict with this law, then you will soon see how it is resolved. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this should make you feel ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u279	You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u281	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u282	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that of course we cannot support this vote, because this is actually something that should have gone to social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u283	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting is held on Wednesday, 7 February, with political statements on the agenda at the first point and, secondly, the assessment of petition No 376 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the rectification of the internal mobility lists and initial hiring of 2017 - 2018, published by the Ministry of Education ( Leigia Reis Oliveira Violas et al.). I wish everyone a good weekend and a good parliamentary journey to the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-02.u285	The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 12 minutes.]]
