ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Bill Nos 1003 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Assigns to the victims of the fires that occurred in the municipalities of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, in August 2018, measures of support identical to those attributed to the victims of forest fires verified in the country between 17 and 24 June and between 15 and 16 October 2017 ( 2 ). the amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the Freguesia de Castelões and the Union of Freguesias de Ruivães and Novais, of the Municipality of Vila Nova de Famalicão, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1006 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres, which falls to 11. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1831 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( The Greens) — Increase of the national minimum wage for the 650 €, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1832 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government that highway access knots be illuminated, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1833 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing the tolls on the Via do Infante, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1834 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1835 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41 / A42 and A29, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1836 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A24, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1837 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A23, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1838 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan to control the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and an action plan for the surveillance and control of the exotic invasive invaders, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1839 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take steps to remove existing barriers to access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1840 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Working time declared to the social security of teachers recruited to perform part-time functions, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1841 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — For the guarantee of air mobility on the island of Faial, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1842 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Egypt. Mr President, it is also important to vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the suspension of the mandate of Mr Luís Soares ( PS ), Braga electoral circle, and its replacement by Lucinda Fonseca, on 4 October 2018, limiting the said suspension and replacement to the period of this day and ending at the end of the day. The opinion is to suspend the mandate of the Member concerned and its replacement is to be admitted, since they comply with the legal requirements. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I am grateful to Mr Duarte Pacheco for this reading and information effort and will then start the period of political declarations. The first political declaration is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, and for this purpose Mr Porfirio Silva has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We had the opportunity, a few days ago, to discuss in this Parliament the beginning of the 2018 / 2019 school year, which once again, when opening in perfect normality, highlighted the good results of the enormous and valuable dedication that many people throughout the country continually devote to public school. However, we would like to stress today that, in addition to being competent at each stage, we must look ahead to the future, responding to strategic challenges. This is what the government does, for example, with the approach to the sustained curriculum in greater autonomy and flexibility. And that is what the government does with the new inclusive education regime, assuming that the school is, and it really has to be, really for everyone and that it is our job to carry out the inclusive school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This anticipation, as a responsible approach to strategic challenges, is also the concern of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. We therefore proposed that the National Education Council should request a study on the main options for a system for the selection and recruitment of pre-school and basic and secondary education staff that could best serve the missions defined by the Basics of the Education System Act. This study will serve a future dialogue between all relevant partners in the design of solutions that contribute most to the appreciation of the teaching career, within the framework of the thorough pursuit of public school missions. Although no other parliamentary group has accompanied us on this initiative, it has been here approved and will enable us, all of us, to the work that we are responsible for. Another crucial issue for us to prepare the response to the strategic challenges of the educational system is the necessary rejuvenation of the teaching body. Therefore, we have already announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will soon hold a hearing on the aging of the teaching body, not only to provide a more complete appropriation of the data, but also to identify ways of responding that, at the same time, value the qualifications of the teachers we have — and are many — and allow the rejuvenation of the class. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will all agree that this is an inescapable debate and we want to contribute to it. In the field of higher education and science, we also want to highlight some bets and advances that indicate paths for the future in key areas. The determination of the Government, the Socialist Party and the parliamentary majority in promoting scientific employment with rights, in valuing careers and intensifying knowledge as a factor in the development of territories is a known determination. But it is important here to highlight some recent steps in consolidating and strengthening the strategic aspects of this bet. The new legal regime of degrees and diplomas, as enshrined in Decree-Law No 65 / 2018 of 16 August, evolves the evaluation and accreditation of curricula of higher education to a new level of requirement, new quality challenges, in terms of strengthening the capacity of R & D in all higher education institutions, strengthening scientific employment and developing academic and scientific careers. This is a path that takes many ways: clarifying that knowledge creation environments are diverse, including companies and centres of technological interface; continuing to strengthen the role of political higher education; pointing to the expansion of professional higher education, also to expand lifelong learning opportunities, especially for adults with recognized professional experience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The new legal regime of degrees and diplomas, by reforming the requirements for accreditation of studies cycles, is also a strategic commitment in the development of scientific employment and academic and research careers. Thus, a higher education institution may confer the degree of a degree in a particular specialty only if, among other requirements, a qualified teaching body is available in order to consist of a minimum of 50 % of doctors, and a minimum of 60 % of teachers are integrated into their respective careers. Of course, these requirements increase in the case of teachers and doctors, covering teaching and research careers, without forgetting the requirement that all those responsible for the study cycles be of the relevant career. Thus, it is strategically committed to scientific employment and to the enhancement of academic and research careers, which are absolutely essential factors in strengthening the institutions themselves, insofar as precariousness is not good neither for workers nor for the robustness and strategic capacity of the institutions themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the strategic betting plan, we cannot fail to mention the Collaborative Laboratories ( COLAB ). 20 Collaborative Laboratories are already recognised, which consolidate structured cooperation between science, technology and higher education institutions and the economic and social fabric, the hospital and health system, cultural institutions and social organizations and which come to create qualified employment and scientific employment throughout the territory, in a territorial cohesion perspective, applying research and innovation agendas oriented towards creating economic and social value in each region, thus responding to a challenge of territorial equity, insofar as they should democratise knowledge-based activities throughout the national territory. This way, democratizing knowledge is to bet on territorial cohesion and equity. The country knows, we know, we all know, that it's not all done. To continue to consolidate rights, to increase income, to develop territories...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u5	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, to continue to consolidate rights, to increase income, to develop territories, to modernize the economy and to make the state more able to respond to people's needs, there is still much to do and the contribution of education, higher education and science to this design is decisive. Therefore, today and here, we wanted to reaffirm our commitment to this path, with our feet well based on the present and what has already been done and with our eyes pointed to the future and what is yet to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u7	Four Mrs have signed up. Members, in order to make requests for clarification, and the Bureau has indicated that Mr Porfirio Silva will answer all together. So you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u8	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, you come here, in fact, as we have already been used to, make a series of announcements behind advertisements and draw up a colour-of-rosa scenario with regard to the beginning of the school year, but in fact we see reality and that is not what we are dealing with, reality shows us something contrary. Mr President, I can give you a number of examples: there is still an emphasis on precarious scientific employment and higher education; there are still closed schools, such as in the municipalities of Almeirim, Braga, Évora, Porto, Póvoa de Varzim and Viana do Alentejo, many of which due to the shortage of employees. On the other hand, there are still numerous teacher strikes — still today one in the Aveiro district, my district —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u9	In PSD time, there wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u10	...and, despite being in a period of post-austerity, we saw a drastic reduction in investment in education. They call it captivating, which is the fact that we have the lowest public investment in memory. The school year has already begun and schools continue to lack guidance, no means and no technicians to answer the issues of inclusive education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u11	On the other hand, Mr Deputies also state vocational education as a priority and, however, it is the directors who have to bear the costs of vocational courses at the moment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u12	So here we are presenting realities. VV. For example, I repeat, they present us with a very pink scenario, but when we deal with reality, that is not what happens. So the question that I am asking is: in the face of these specific problems, what are the answers you have to give us? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u13	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, you also have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Ángela Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u14	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I begin by welcoming the teachers' strike and reaffirming the solidarity of the CFP with this fight in defence of the rights of teachers, public school and the quality of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u16	Article 19. that of the State Budget Act for 2018 is to comply. The PS Parliamentary Group, which voted in favour of it, continues to ignore this commitment. The public school presents serious structural problems, which remain, as a result of decades of right-wing policies, to which the PS is not yet able to respond. Mr Porfirio Silva, in his political statement, listed a number of positive aspects carried out by his Government in education, but there is still much to be done. We agree with the concern regarding the ageing of teachers, but the proposal of the CFP for people with long careers who can retire without penalty has not been accompanied. There is still much to do, for example, in the career of educational assistants. Mr President, we have already found that the solution does not go through part-time or end-time, the solution goes through career integration with effective linkage. The review of the portfolio of ratios is necessary. I wonder, therefore, whether the PS will positively monitor the discussion of the draft resolution submitted by the CFP on this matter. Without concrete answers are also the specialized education technicians, who are in precarious condition over dozens of years, with permanent work but with precarious links. The CFP monitors the concerns of these workers. Is that a PS? Will you continue to "shut the sun with the sieve" and claim that there have been advances? Oh, my God! Do you not think that ensuring employment stability for these technicians was to ensure greater quality of public school? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u18	Let's talk about school textbooks. On September 25, at the Luís School of Sttau Monteiro, in Loures, students still had no school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u19	Ah! It can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u20	You want to finish, Mrs. Angela Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u21	A start of normal school year may only be possible if schools are equipped with the appropriate means to ensure the quality of the teaching process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u22	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u23	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, no one disputes, certainly not in this bench, the improvements that have taken place in higher education and education in Portugal. Often, in partnership with the Government, we have taken measures that have been important, and I can mention, for example, the decrease in the number of students per class, the free distribution of school textbooks, the end of the PACC (test of knowledge and skills assessment ), the rationalization of association contracts, the linkage of more 7000 teachers by direct negotiation with the Left Block, such as the change of the rules of the norm-train criteria, the end of this shame that were the CIS(employment-inclusion contracts) in the exercise of the work of operational assistants and educational action assistants in schools, the end of the ECB (school contract), etc. In the case of higher education, there have been some improvements that have been achieved, not in partnership with the government but in spite of the government. This is the case with the various attempts to integrate teachers, fellows or even the application of PREVPAP(Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration) into higher education, which has always faced the resistance of the rectors, alongside whom the Government has placed itself to prevent, through PREVPAP, a real fight against precariousness in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u25	The question now is not whether we are better than we were, because where we were with the public school in the bone, on the brink of the dismantling of the public school. That is how the right and the troika left public education in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u26	I was already missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u27	The question that arises is whether, three years later, we are satisfied with what has been achieved, if we are satisfied with the existence of employers who earn little more than 3 € / hour in schools, to guarantee work that is necessary and that should have rights, if we are satisfied with the continuation of thousands of teachers hired to ensure that permanent needs are met by precarious, if we are satisfied with schools, as is the case of Portela and Fernão Mendes Pinto, who continue to wait for the works that have been frozen and denied by the right government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u28	Ah! I can't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u29	What I would like to ask Mr Porfirio Silva is whether the Socialist Party is willing to demand at least what was assumed here in the Assembly of the Republic with the votes of the parliamentary benches and without opposition from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u30	You want to finish, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u31	I will finish, Mr. President. I also ask whether the Socialist Party is prepared to require the Government to fulfil the position of the Assembly of the Republic on the full recovery of the hours of service of teachers, whether it is willing to require the Government to comply with the change of the gate of ratios, as it has been approved very recently, and the creation of a scholarship to replace employees in schools, whether it is willing to require the Government to recover careers of operational assistants, as it had been in the past, and whether it is willing to require the Government to increase the budget of public education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u32	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u33	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, began his speech by saying that the theme of the opening of the school year had already been brought to this Parliament last week, reiterated the normality with which the school year began and brought two subjects to consideration: teachers and inclusive education. I had the idea that this week, just this week, a strike was taking place in schools, with an accession rate of 80 %. Finally, this will certainly be normal for the Socialist Party, but for students and their families it is not very normal to get to the classroom and have no teachers. Finally, it will be a different indicator which, for you, will have its relevance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u35	With regard to inclusive education, I also think that if there is an area that has given trouble and trouble this school year is exactly that of inclusive education, because schools meet a theoretically well achieved degree but without the means to execute it and families, in many cases without enrolment in public schools, have children with special educational needs at home because they do not have vacancies. That is why, Mr President, I am delighted with the description you have made, that it is all wonderful and it is all normal. But do you know the big problem of doing this reading? It's just that everything that's wrong will never be corrected. Therefore, with you having this concept of normality, we already know that we will have more and more of the same, more than is wrong. With regard to higher education and science, I would like to know whether it is normal for a government diploma, approved in August 2016, for contracts under scientific employment, over the past two years, at the end of the deadline, to show 1910 open competition processes, taking into account that these, as we have also checked this morning at the hearing of the Education Commission, do not yet know how many will result in de facto contracts but never before 2019, almost almost, see only that coincidence in the closure of the Legislation. Do you consider this normal? Is there also nothing to correct here or, for Mr Porfirio Silva, do we even live in the « Wonderland »? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u36	You have the floor to answer, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u37	Mr President, I thank the honourable Members — yes, all Members — Susana Lamas, Ángela Moreira, Joana Mortágua and Ana Rita Bessa — the questions that have raised me. Mrs. Susana Lamas, I don't think you'll have heard what I said, because if there was anything I did it was reflect on the subjects we still have to move on. I didn't make any announcements! The honourable Member will tell me, in all my political statement, where I made an announcement. I didn't make any announcements! I spoke only of materials that are on the ground and are being applied, which are being implemented. Perhaps Mrs Susana Lamas has gone to another territory other than education and higher education, and suddenly she has landed here, thinking they're ads. They're not! They are materials that are realized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of strikes, and several Members mentioned it, we always say exactly the same thing about it: the strike is a right we respect and will always respect. There are other rights, including the right to education, but what we always need is to be able to reconcile. No one's gonna get us to say we have to stop the strikes,
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u38	You have to find solutions to the problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u39	...because strikes make boys have no teachers in the rooms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u40	Nobody talked about it, it's your idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u41	We want the boys to have teachers in the rooms, but we can't do that, under any circumstances, prohibiting the strikes. I don't know if that's your solution, but it's not ours. It is not worth saying again that there are several subjects in which we think there is a lot to do and a lot of way to walk. I just wanted to play in two points. First of all, I mean inclusive education. Anyone who thinks that the publication of the diploma of inclusive education, even though it has already been discussed and worked, including with schools for a long time, puts this system automatically in force in all its aspects, is mistaken. The Government has always said, and we have found it very well, that this new regime is necessary, it is ambitious, it is demanding and, of course, it is not fully in force today, as none of the earlier regimes was immediately in force. The previous regime took at least two years to be fully implemented, and we respected that. But we also want to — and therefore we agree with the proposal presented by the CFP today to the Commission — that the Minister should explain better what is being done and what is the way forward. We are completely realistic in this matter. We don't think it's enough to smash your fingers to make things happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u42	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u43	Finally, Mr President, giving a very clear reply to Mrs Angela Moreira on the subject of the reconstruction of teaching careers. The Government is not only complying with Article 19. but all the government budget articles. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is fulfilling all the articles and all the aspects of each article, because we do not read only the first or second part of this or that article, depending on the conveniences, we read the articles from the first word to the last point. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to tell you something else, Mrs Deputies, and I would like to ask Mr President for some kind of tolerance: the Socialist Party voted in favour of the recommendation on the recovery of time of service. Exactly! We voted and explained at the time why. It is that we also have all the ambitions of the world. But at that time we said that they would never interpret our vote as an attempt to circumvent negotiations between the unions and the government. We have always said that this had to be resolved in negotiations between the government and the unions. The government has been negotiating and has taken steps; we are waiting for all trade unions to take steps to get closer to positions and for the solution to be found. This is to respect the resolution and this is how we respect our own word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u44	For a political declaration, Mr Luís Monteiro of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Another school year has started in higher education and one of the first tasks for thousands of students, a little across the country, is to find accommodation. Without a place to sleep, it becomes impossible to stay studying. If it is true that the theme of student accommodation is not a new problem—and the Left Block has long defended the construction of more university residences—it is also true that, in recent years, real estate speculation has made the search for rooms an authentic hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u46	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u47	The reports that arrive to us every day of students who do not find room in the city where they study are scary and prove this drama. Just a brief search on any lease site to realize that the real estate bubble attacks the right to housing and, as a result, the right to education. Just as an example, we look at some news headlines that have been published in recent times: The saga of finding a room in Lisbon at « normal» prices, subtitle A bathroom in the middle of the room, sleeping on pallets and landlords with unclear offers; Price of student accommodation fires: renting a room already costs more than 500 €; We went looking for room to study, subtitle We consulted portals on the Internet, asked in cafes and asked for help to doors, the average goes up to 300 €; Rooms for university students cost more than 500 €; University accommodation: show us the worst examples. Bruna Tome, for example, a student looking for a room, tells us: « I looked for a room in an apartment in Arroios. The amount was € 350 and I expected the expenses to be included. The expenses were not included and the room was the room that had once existed in that house». Average prices fired. In Porto, there is no longer a room less than 275 €, in Lisbon less than 450 €, in Coimbra and in Aveiro less than 250 € and in Braga less than 200 €. Moreover, today the number of beds in university residences does not respond, at least 20 % of the number of displaced students seeking accommodation. In some cases, the offer does not reach the pockets, leaving all the non-pockets without any solution other than paying hundreds of euros per month to be able to sleep. We cannot help but criticize some institutions that, after knowing and living daily with the problem, have decided to invest in university housing with market prices — instead of fighting the crisis, take advantage of it! They are residences for students and researchers, with rooms at 300 € or more, while most are at the door of social action services waiting for a positive response. The crisis of housing joins the chronic crisis of the tip. The story is old, but it's always good to remember it. The tip was introduced as a rate that improved the quality of teaching provided. In 1992, its cost, converted into euro, stood at €6, €5 ; today, can be €1063. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's €1063! It represents more than one third of the funding of higher education institutions and is one of the highest values practiced in the European Union and in the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ). In addition, we are also one of the OECD countries where the gap between the value of the tip and the investment in social action is higher. We already know the position of the government: the tip is to maintain. It was even hard for them to accept their freezing. Maintenance of the tip places many young people to see education for a cando and is more an economic barrier to creating difficulties for students who want to study.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u49	But what becomes even more unsustainable, from a political point of view, is that Minister Manuel Heitor does not comply with the State Budget Act, which provides for the creation of a national table of fees and emoluments. You are mandated to do this, you have the support of this parliamentary majority, you only have to comply. These economic barriers must be removed from higher education. That is why we have to act, for the young people who have the right to access higher education without counting the coughs. The Left Block started a national campaign on university accommodation. with us, we take the necessary attention to hear everyone. We do not forget the proposals that have already come to this Plenary and that have not yet known the light of day. We also presented new standards for assessing social action services as regards investment in student accommodation. The proposal at the time was plunged by PS, PSD and CDS. It's time to act. The State budget is coming to discussion, the school year has already begun and it is necessary to ensure an effective response to all and all those who want to study in higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u50	Mr Luís Monteiro, you have signed up to request clarifications of three Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this intervention by the Left Block in plenary on the subject of higher education costs is appropriate. They are talking about costs for students, costs also for teachers and, above all, the costs of institutions — political and university — with government delays in fulfilling the legislative contract. All higher education institutions have to have government money, which does not pay what they have committed to pay, in order to give better conditions to students. But, Mr. Luís Monteiro, the truth is that this government promises a lot in higher education and, after all, does nothing. We all remember, for example, the freeze of 5% of the vacancies in Lisbon and Porto to increase the number of vacancies in the interior. What was the result? Not only did nothing increase in the interior, as the only thing that increased were registrations at private universities in Lisbon and Porto. He was the expected one! The government then announced that it would equate pre-Bolonha's graduates with masters, but it withdrew again and "did not give a cavaco" to Parliament, nor to the Portuguese. He announced and retreated! Let us now also talk about the costs of housing. The left always makes a great strength to freeze the tip annually, it manages to freeze it - 10 €, as if 10 € made a big difference to families, compared to the one that is the cost of housing. Today, we have students sleeping, for example, at the Port train station, in cars, at the university door. And it's not from now on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u52	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u53	The PSD, two years ago, one year ago, three years ago warned that the increase in real estate pressure in Lisbon and Porto would cause this problem. We all know that residences are not built in six months, not even in one or two years, but the Government, Parliament, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block have dropped all the proposals that the PSD here has made to contract places in residences with the private sector, with the social sector, in order to give an urgent response to the students. Mr. Luís Monteiro, the Left Block has a good speech on higher education. When are you going to move from speech to acts?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u55	When will the government, in the State budget, demand what is required before the Portuguese? When are we going to go from conversation to act?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u56	Would you like to end up, please, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u57	When will the Left Block assume its responsibility with the government? Let us see if in this State budget, Mr President, we have a higher education policy or we continue to have only "filled talk" in relation to higher education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u58	The second request for clarification lies with Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u59	Mr President, Mr Luís Monteiro, I am actually going to have to reformulate some of the questions I would like to ask you, in fact, until I ask you whether you know something that Mr Duarte Marques clearly does not know. Mr Luís Monteiro has certainly not yet regretted, as we have not yet regretted, having voted against that proposal from the PSD to hand over the issue of university residences to private individuals. It is that the data that Mr Duarte pointed out would certainly not be corrected if we were to do so, because the places where you found these values are those which Mr Duarte Marques wanted to expand to continue to aggravate the problem. I would also like to point out to you something else: Mr Luís Monteiro, contrary to what Mr Duarte Marques does, certainly does not confuse this year's numbers with last year's numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u60	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u61	It is that Mr Duarte Marques cites numbers of entries in private higher education as a consequence of measures this year, when they are numbers of the previous year. I would like to ask Mr Luís Monteiro if he had noticed that Mr Duarte Marques once again came here without reading the numbers and confusing things with each other. Mr. Luís Monteiro, I apologize for...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u62	They're this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u63	Sir, let me talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u64	But he's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u65	You're lying! Be respectful and not ill-educated. You're lying! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u66	You're talking about bad education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Open... Please continue, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u68	Mr. President, I continue, but, to tell you the truth, I'm tired of the behavior...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u69	Tired? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u70	... of certain Members, who have no respect for anyone. They lie and say that the others are lying, which is what Mr Duarte Marques is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Luís Monteiro, so as not to fail to respect and not to stop talking about the matters on which he spoke, all of them important matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u71	This is the Member of maleducation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u72	... I wanted to ask you the following question: the tips, the social action at school and the financing of higher education are, for us, very important issues, because we probably, at least immediately, have to choose between ending the tips — which would have a certain cost and would be directed to a certain sector of seeking higher education — or increasing the effort of the social action at school, which is a more progressive effort and which could solve other problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u73	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. On this subject, as you have put it, there is so important a debate to be held. Would it not be better to make progress in school social action, covering more students and preventing them from leaving because of lack of financial conditions? Would that not be preferable, rather than moving forward and putting an end to the propines, which, perhaps, would cause other imbalances? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u75	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Monteiro, I welcome this on the subject of the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in fact, it brings questions which are very relevant and which have motivated an initiative of the CFP to call the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education to the Education Commission, for a meeting that is already scheduled for the next week, so that we can confront the Government with the need to take action to resolve the problems that are identified. It began with a problem that had to do with the insufficient funding of higher education institutions, science and technology institutions, which has created major constraints in the development of their work and actions and also in the linkage of workers who perform permanent functions. Even today, the workers of the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ( IPMA) are struggling to defend that each permanent effective job corresponds to an effective work contract. It can only be seen that, in an IPMA boat that leaves the 13, 10 team are pockets. This is a fundamental aspect: ensuring the means for these workers to see their rights recognised, both in relation to science institutions and higher education institutions. With regard to access to higher education and the costs of higher education, we could say much. But here we can mention that the PSD and the CDS were also responsible not only for not solving these problems but also for worsening them, which led thousands and thousands of students to leave higher education institutions, because they do not have the conditions to continue attending their courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u77	Where are those data? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u78	We have brought here several times proposals to strengthen school social action, to strengthen the funding of higher education institutions and to put an end to the tips, which are indeed a barrier and an obstacle to access to higher education institutions. With regard to student accommodation, it is essential, Mr Luís Monteiro, to take measures that resolve the situation we are currently facing. That is what we are going to demand from the Government, because this Assembly of the Republic, at the initiative of the CFP, has approved a bill which is indeed a law of the Republic today and it is important to know what the situation of its implementation is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u79	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. It is important to know what investment plan it is planning to develop so that it effectively expands and extends the network of residences and that students can be able to attend higher education. And this was the point that Mr. Luís Monteiro left you: does he not consider it essential that the law which was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic be implemented as soon as possible? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u81	You have the floor to answer these three requests for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u82	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Duarte Marques, Porfirio Silva and Paula Santos. I appreciate the contributions, and I will begin exactly by the end. On the issue of the investment plan, with regard to university accommodation, we had the opportunity for several times to appreciate in this House draft resolutions, as well as bills, about the problem of the lack of offer of beds in university residences. We have followed the situation and, in my speech, I have touched on this: the government needs to implement this investment plan. It has already been approved in the Assembly of the Republic that a lifting of the number of beds that are necessary, today, in each of the higher education institutions, the Government has this survey, which was an imperative work for us to have a general and extended view of what is happening in higher education. There is now a lack of compliance with the rest and a response to today's insufficiency. This obviously leads us to another of Mrs Paula Santos' issues of the CFP, which she puts here, which is that of the underfinancing of higher education. It tells us, in a report, at the request of the Government itself, that the Portuguese State has to reach 3 % of GDP (gross domestic product) of investment in higher education and science. Now, here will be the Left Block to ensure that these goals too are not just a nice document, with which the Government presents itself, are indeed a commitment from the Government, already in this State budget, so that we can achieve them in the year in which it is stipulated. Mr Porfirio Silva has put here two questions which I think are essential. The first of these questions is also a complaint, which needs to be made. The existence of a scarce supply of beds in university residences does not necessarily have to be answered with a negotiation in private; public investment in university residences is necessary. That is why the Left Block has led to the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, which, in fact, takes advantage of the housing crisis to create another negotiation in this same area. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] That is why we are against this proposal. On the issue of propines and social action, even though it seems to be a discussion that puts two distinct aspects on the table, it seems to us to be a « tailfish in the mouth», allowing me to express it. what we need is to reduce the cost of propines and not to stop betting on social action, until social action grants and other social action mechanisms existed before there were propines. Students should be entitled to these scholarships, regardless of whether there is a policy of propina. In fact, today we have a scourge in social action services—not from an administrative point of view, but in their response—because a large percentage of the scholarships that are given to students serve only to pay the tips, and that is one of the subjects that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u83	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u84	I'm done now, Mr. President. PSD Member Duarte Marques here accuses the Left Block of being saving the Government in matters that are essential, particularly in the State budget. I recall Mr Duarte Marques — and I had the opportunity to highlight this in my speech — that, when we presented here the proposal to create...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u85	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u86	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, I would remind the honourable Member that, when we presented here the proposal to create new evaluation criteria for higher education institutions, who saved the Socialist Party and the Government was the right, who voted with the Socialist Party and lead the Block proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u87	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u88	What does that have to do with costs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u89	So, who is the one who saves those who in higher education, we're talking about. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u90	We have moved on to the political declaration of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, to which Mr João Almeida speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We find ourselves in a pre-budgetary period and it is natural that in this pre-budgetary period different views are faced from those who represent different voters and politicians here. It is normal that there is a view of the left, which are responsible for the approval of all the budgets so far and which will also be responsible for the adoption of the budget that we are going to discuss this year, and for a different budgetary view on the part of the oppositions. In the understanding of some analysts, it would be even normal that, if this government solution could reach this Budget, it would mean that the alternatives would be completely crushed. It would be so important and so strong the government solution and would have achieved so much that it would be very difficult to exercise the oppositions, so that they could show something different. But what we find is that, even before the oppositions show what is possible to do differently—and we will already do so—the fact that each of the parties that make up the left-wing majority have their speech on budgetary policy very well shows the fragility of this majority and the inability it has to benefit from the best possible situation over three years, to achieve robustness in its budgetary solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u92	Again? Oh, my God! Slaughtered fish again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u93	The PS is responsible for everything that's good and doesn't want to talk about anything that runs less well. The CFP says that "this is bad" and that it is only not so bad because it has managed to approve a few crumbs, but still this government — that the CFP here supports, every day — must be removed quickly and forcefully to be replaced by a patriotic and left-wing government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u94	I've never spoken so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u95	The Left Block has a day when it traces the red line and has the next day, when it deletes the red line that it has drawn on the previous day; on the third day it rests, because everyone would notice if the red line was traced right next day. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] on our part, we have sought to make an alternative policy here, and it is indisputable to recognize it, with a sense of mission and positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u96	The CDS now presents a positive policy! Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u97	We clearly say what this budget should have and does not have. Where will the vision of the future be in the State Budget for 2019? Is this time that these left-wings will show us why it is that a Socialist Budget, supported by communists and bloggers, can make Portugal a country with a greater capacity to resist adverse cycles, with a greater capacity to promote social cohesion, with a greater capacity to attract external investment, at the bottom, with a greater ability to be in front of the European project and not just to keep in the shade of water, when water comes down, and suffer when things run worse internationally? Oh, my God! Where is the effective reduction in the tax burden that would allow us to be competitive? Oh, my God! Where is the recovery of public services? There is no Portuguese who understands that works worse now than they did in the time of the troika! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Where are the strategic options in some sectors, which often even are caressed on the left, in words, that do not act on us? Oh, my God! Where, for example, is the vision of being able to look at culture and realize that lowering the VAT of culture was, at the moment, a correct measure and that sector deserved that consideration? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Where is the view about people's lives, business life and the search for the best on each side? The smart working, for example, by allowing people new forms of work, that people want, that companies accept, but that the State insists on preventing and limiting? Oh, my God! Where is the family quotient that has been operating for so many years in a country of left-wing tradition, as in France, could at this time be operating here in the same terms as it is in France, but has been forgotten and abandoned by this government? Oh, my God! Where is the tax status for the interior, which effectively distinguishes a depressed region from the country and allows it to recover from this situation of less prosperity? Oh, my God! But besides not having much that is necessary, this Budget has a black side. The black side of this Budget is all that the left have been promising, for three years, and that they will not be able to solve. The tax on oil and energy products ( ISP ) will continue to make it more expensive in Portugal to travel every kilometer than in any other country in Europe. This is bad for people and it's bad for businesses, because it costs our economy. Where is the reduction in VAT in electricity and gas, which has been in opposition for years and years, to say that it limited the competitiveness of our industry? Oh, my God! They have continued to limit it, while they have ruled for three years, and will continue to limit it in the last year of your governance. Where is the definitive removal of the captives, which make the Budget, which we have discussed here and voted for, a lie, when, still recently, they have prevented the end of the captives for the regulators? Oh, my God! Where is the recovery of the railway, where they try to search for the only kilometer where there is work and hide all public transport users, in particular, from the railway, who are waiting for trains that never appear or appear late? Oh, my God! Where is the fulfillment of the promises that have been made to health professionals—here they have not even been made to the patients—who have agreed to remain working under very difficult conditions because they are promised to have certain conditions to serve the citizens, but who resign themselves successively because these commitments have not been honored? Oh, my God! Where is a decent implementation of decentralization, so that we can call this a reform process? Oh, my God! Where is the shame to say five times that a institute is moving to the Port when the institute is held in Lisbon? Oh, my God! Where is it ashamed to say that a company such as the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal) has to be public, so that certain problems do not repeat themselves, and then have the discharge to say "no, we said this but even better than that was its opposite and, therefore, we promote the opposite'? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u98	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u99	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : It was three years of a left-wing government adjusting accounts with the past. And in this regard, we have to express a word of understanding: it is natural that the Socialist Party, despite the past of the past years, because of the responsibility they had, but it was time to look forward. They keep adjusting accounts with the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u100	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u101	...but whoever adjusts accounts with the past, for three years, doesn't deserve credibility to make a difference in the fourth year. And who is four years old adjusting accounts with the past, will understand that when confronted with anyone who wants to work for the future, he will check the difference, and voters will certainly explain it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u102	Mr President, five Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u103	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u104	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Almeida, I thought the CDS was here to correct the things you've been saying in the last three years. The first is about the European economy having accelerated, while the Portuguese economy had slowed down in 2016. The INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) released numbers two weeks ago showing that, in a scenario of slowing down of the European economy in 2016, the Portuguese economy, in countercycle, accelerated. On this point, the CDS, who has been walking for two or three years to say that the Portuguese economy had slowed down — I would like to see the CDS recognize the error here and to review its position — nothing said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u106	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u107	The second point has to do with the tax burden. The CDS has been hysterically screaming for three years now, saying that taxes keep rising and the tax burden has risen. Well, INE also lowered the tax burden and now we know that the biggest tax burden ever in Portugal was reached in 2015 and dropped in 2016. The years 2016 and 2017 have a lower tax burden than the year 2015. I would also like to see the CDS rectifying here its multiple and successive statements on this subject, but strangely nothing said about it. I would like to see the CDS refer to the family quotient they have been talking about for several years. After their proposal — your great reform of support for families with children — the Tax and Customs Authority has released the tax expenditure data in June this year and what these data have shown is that the large reform supported by the CDS, the change in the method of calculating income for the purposes of IRS, increased the deductions by about 200 million, i.e. from 300 million to 500 million. It happens that in 2016 — therefore, in the IRS settled in 2017 but reported in 2016 — deductions for families with children increased slightly more than with your major reform of the IRS. Your reform increased the tax expenditure on families by 200 million; the change we promoted in 2016 did not change the deductions by 200 million or 400 million, when compared to 2014 before the reform, and 2016 by 300 million. So, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u108	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u109	... there was an increase of 600 million, 400 of which in relation to the reform of the CDS, that the CDS wants it to be recovered. I would like to see the CDS speak at least of these three themes, which were central themes in the opposition made by the CDS and were the three unauthorized by reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u110	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u111	It is strange that when the CDS here speaks of a review of the matter, it does not review its own position, assumed for three years, and that it has been unauthorised by reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u112	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Galamba, taking the « hysterically», raised relevant questions and they deserve to be clarified in fact. We are going to the family quotient: Mr Deputy looks at the best time of the reform that this government has done in the IRS and compares it with a step-by-step process of application of the family quotient, proposed by the PSD/CDS-PP government, which, in fact, consisted of the electoral programme of the PàF (Portugal to Front) and which, over several years, provided... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... an increase in consideration for each of the children, which would obviously result in an increase, also gradual, of the tax compensation that these families would be going to. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] If we want to be technically rigorous, let's not compare films with photographs. Or we compare two photographs of the same time, to see what results in one and another case, or compare the evolution of one case and the evolution of the other to understand the effects of one and the effects of another. And I say to you, honourable Member, you cannot compare what is done by your government with our reform, because it has been interrupted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u114	It produced all the effects in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u115	... compare with what was done in France, which was the model we wanted to compare, and compare what French families benefit each child with what benefit families benefit in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u117	With regard to growth, he makes a trick: he turns the loss of competitiveness into slowdown. The CDS has been saying for a long time that we have lost the train of competitiveness and that our economy has grown less. We haven't said you have...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u118	Europe has slowed down, Portugal has accelerated. Portugal didn't grow? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u119	Mr President, we have known each other a few years ago, and so I did not use it before because I knew I would use it now — where you can see where Portugal is. The honourable Member is pleased that Portugal is 19. the place? Oh, my God! Is that good for you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u120	No. 19. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u121	in a Europe where Portugal has gone through what happened, in which we are recovering what we can, in which our partners recover at much higher levels than ours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u122	Thanks to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u123	...we could use it to do the same, but we're happy to stay in 19. the place, knowing that Finland, Croatia, Holland, Spain, Austria, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Hungary, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Latvia, Poland, Estonia, Slovenia, Malta, Romania and Ireland, all grew more than us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u124	That's how it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u125	You want to finish, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u126	You think it's good that all these countries have grown up more than we do? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Should we thank you, Mr? Oh, my God! Should we thank you for having all these countries grow more than we do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u127	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u128	Mr President, just to finish, I wanted to say that we do not rule to make propaganda, we rule to achieve results and, looking at yours, they are very bad. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u129	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u130	Mr President, we note Mr Almeida's concerns with the budgetary negotiations. They are very important and must be the target of concern, because it is the negotiations that decide how and how much will come down the account of light, how and when they will increase pensions, how and how much will it be possible to increase the salaries of public servants, where and how much will families be able to save with social passes. There are differences, it is true, in « how», in « when», in « how much». There are differences, but they're public. That is the political dispute. This is the political struggle of those who want results, of those who want to respond to people's needs. It is quite different from that political dispute, from that political conflict, from the stagnation of those who want more power, from those who want a better place in government. And we, unfortunately, have examples of these times in our political history. On 2 July 2013 Minister Gaspar resigned after the failure of the brutal increase in taxes. Steps wanted to name Maria Luís Albuquerque to Minister of Finance and the CDS did not like the idea. At the time, Paulo Portas resigned with profound political differences with budgetary policy and with the policy of the new Minister of Finance. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] See that it was in such a way that he said the resignation was irrevocable and, at the time, the Ministers John Almeida and Assumption Christians did not take possession of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u131	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u132	In spite of all this very profound political divergence, four days have passed, as we all know, after all, the irrevocable had been reproducible. The then Minister of Defence took the position of Deputy Prime Minister and, at the time, the Minister of Finance was kept and the VAT (tax on added value) of energy was maintained, the cuts in wages were maintained, the cuts in pensions were kept and the REN was privatized, the financing of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) was reduced to TAP, Metro, the health and higher education budget was reduced. The harmony was such, and it continues to be so, that the CDS still agrees with the proposal, of the height, of Maria Luís Albuquerque, that it was privileged...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u133	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. He said that Maria Luís Albuquerque's proposal was to favour the reduction of IRC (the income tax of legal persons) in relation to the reduction of IRS ( the income tax of natural persons ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are negotiating the future and the future is respecting the Constitution, the future is to apply more fair tax rules, the future is to combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u135	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u136	In the past, there is the PSD government / CDS, in which the honourable Member has joined as Minister. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In fact, as Secretary of State, forgive me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u137	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the final part of your speech, which refers to negotiating the future, is the most important. He had a moment Fernando Rosas, paying tribute to this bench, but in history, sometimes these things fail: is that I was not a minister, I was a secretary of state. Sometimes these historical details fail, but it is corrected and I must say that I was very proud. Mrs. Member, I thought I was going to talk about ISP, spoke about Gaspar ; that I was going to talk about teachers ; that I was going to talk about captivating ; that I was going to talk about Maria Luís Albuquerque ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u140	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u141	...who was going to talk about electricity tax, talked about Rabbit Steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u142	I talked about the light account!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u143	That says a lot about the moment the Left Block is in this negotiation! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u144	I talked about the light account!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u145	This says a lot about the moment the Left Block is in this negotiation! You know what I'm telling you about all these things? It is that if your negotiation of the Budget for the ISP, for the teachers, for the seizures and for the VAT of electricity ran as well as all these people were running the following elections was great.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u146	What about pensions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u147	It was a sign that you could get something in the Budget, because all these people who quoted here were voting and, with the votes of the Portuguese, see there, they won elections! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u148	You stopped your watch three years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u149	And we are still waiting for the Budget in which you, by saying all these things, can be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u150	Three years ago, he stopped the CDS watch!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u151	This is because, about captivating, you say you can end them, but in the following year there are captivating;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u152	Three years ago the CDS watch stopped!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u153	... they say that the ISP is about to finish, but it continues; on the VAT of electricity, they say never again, but the Portuguese pay every day! Madam Member, it is true that we are negotiating the future. It is respectable and it is important — I understand this and I sincerely say it — that, when there are multiple governmental solutions, various parties have even negotiating tendencies and that this can be public and transparent. However, what is expected of voters is that they have better results than you have achieved! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u154	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Almeida, in anticipation of the discussion of the State budget, the honourable Member asked, of the rostrum, where the State budget is reducing the tax burden. As you know, the level of tax burden in a country is at the level of State-provided functions, in particular social functions. Therefore, when he defends the reduction in the tax burden, he is in fact defending the reduction in the capacity of the State to ensure its functions, in particular its social functions in health, education, social protection, culture and housing. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] As you know, when compared with other OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) or the European Union, the tax burden in Portugal is not excessive. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The problem with the tax burden in Portugal is that it is poorly distributed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u157	It's not excessive! It is even below the European Union average. The problem is that it is very poorly distributed, with the scandalous favour of large capital and an excessive weight on the income and consumption of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u158	Exactly! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u159	That's the problem: bad tax burden distribution! And the CDS has great responsibilities in this, because whenever it was in the government it helped to make it worse. I ask you now, Mr João Almeida, whether the CDS will finally be available to contribute to the resolution of this problem by approving and supporting proposals from the CFP that aim to ensure a better distribution of the tax burden. For example: is the CDS available to support the proposal of the CFP, an increase in state tax for companies with profits over EUR 20 million? We are talking about around 100 companies that have billions of euros of profits per year. Is the CDS available to support this proposal? Is the CDS available to approve and support a proposal from the CFP, which is the most appropriate taxation of real estate assets in AIMI (additional to municipal property tax) with the creation of a new step above one and a half million euros? We are talking about a few hundred families that certainly have a higher real estate worth of EUR 1000 million. Is the CDS available to support the CFP's proposal to make the inclusion of income and capital of taxpayers with global incomes greater than €100,000? These are measures proposed by the CFP that contribute to solving the problem of the poor distribution of tax burden in Portugal. We believe that the CDS is not available to support these proposals, because your options have always been, and continue to be, in favour of large profits, large incomes and large estates at the expense of the tax strangulation of workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u160	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Sá, we are not all, but I am of the time of the « number» of legos that you have done in this Parliament. The 'number' which, with all legitimacy, you did once in a committee was to add lego blocks, but there was no train there, there was no hospital there, there was no school there! [[PCP protests.]] When I wanted to explain that the tax burden was rising, it was limited to adding to the taxes that were already being charged to others who would be charged there! So one thing you cannot do is have a criterion for yourself when you do your 'numbers' and you think you can demand the other criteria that do not apply to yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u162	Exactly! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u163	And speaking of things that do not apply to itself, we go to taxes and the allocation of higher incomes. I am returning the question: are the honourable Member and the CFP available to the large owners in Portugal, all of whom pay IMI? Look, for example, at the political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u164	For example!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u165	With regard to the political parties that have great heritage, will we make them pay IMI? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Is that what we're going to do, sir? Oh, my God! Is it available for that? Oh, my God! I do not hide—and it is not worth doing here a set of mirrors—that we have different ideological views of society, but there are things that are not ideological. There are parties that have great wealth and that don't pay taxes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u166	Pagam, pagam!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u167	...is oligarchy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u168	He's wrong! That the CDS is running away is one thing, since the others are running away...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u169	... has nothing to do with ideology! The parties are protecting themselves, Mr, and that is what people do not understand. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What people don't understand either is that you don't give priority to the attack on the most restrictive taxes. Where is the PCP struggle for the reduction of ISP?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u170	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u171	Do you not know that when any small merchant, any small farmer, any family of low incomes that have to take children to school by car because they often live far away they have to pay gasoline and gasoline at higher prices in Europe, that has to do with the fact that we have a tax, the ISP, whose political choice this government is to keep high, which is a regression tax and which harms the poorest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u172	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u173	So are you or are you not able, even in ideological matters, to take consequences for yourself before asking for consequences for others? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u174	We paid €29,000 of IMI! I'd like to know how much the CDS paid the Catholic Church!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u175	For the last request for clarification, Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u176	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, I begin by thanking you for your speech. Mr President, I would like to ask you if it does not seem to you that, than we are hearing from the State budget, we will have more of the same, but with an electoral additive. We continue with a government that is a drifting boat. The only wind that pulls the country is the wind that comes from outside, from the international environment and from the reforms that preceded this government, and the only route that this government has is drawn by the electoral calculation. These left party gentlemen have shown all their contentment here. They are happy with the Budget, with the accounts and with the results they are achieving, but still in 2017, made the tax burden increase again for very high values. On the subject of redistribution, I wonder if this is to make the Portuguese pay more taxes on fuels, which cost much more to pay to those who neither IRS pay, is good redistribution, is socially fair.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u178	We have a good tax burden because, as the CFP said now, we have a state that is serving the Portuguese. A state where trains stop, consultations are delayed, schools have problems, civil protection fails, weapons are stolen, is this state that is working better for the Portuguese? Oh, my God! It is that the State does not serve those who, however honorable they are, serve in it, but those who are served by it. And that's what you don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u180	It's not by any chance that this happens. You go in the third year with a worse public investment than in 2015. They do not take advantage of normality, of course, to invest in services to people. But they also do not take advantage of normality, which, with much effort on our part and from the Portuguese, we have recovered — at that time, you were disenchanting from our way to now having your Prime Minister and Minister of Finance praising the Greeks for having done less and later, but they have never praised our country and its government for doing better — but, as I was saying, they do not take advantage of normality to invest only more, but to make reforms, which do not exist in your lexicon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u181	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u182	We should take advantage of a budget that would be more for companies, for investment, for exports; that would further reduce public debt, which, in fact, increased in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u183	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u184	Mr. President, I will finish. Mr. João Almeida, our path is different too. During the discussion, in the specialty, of the Budget, which is about to begin, as we have done in recent years, in 2017 and 2018,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u185	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u186	... we will present several proposals to improve the Budget and to show a different path and a country that is not only drifting, but also that builds its present and its future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u187	It's passive nostalgia!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u188	To respond to this last request for clarification, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Leitão Amaro, people do not listen to the parts made here in Parliament, but this one I will repeat, because I think it is really worth it. Mr António Filipe recently said that he is « nostalgia passive». The question is that the left has not yet realized — and that is what distinguishes us — that we are not the ones who talk about the past. Who is constantly talking about the past and ruling for the past is the PS, the PCP and the Left Block,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... that they have not yet forgotten the troika, which they have brought, and the sacrifices to which they have forced the Portuguese and have not yet freed themselves from the weight they have in their conscience of having been others to rid the country of the situation in which they have left it. They still haven't rid themselves of this weight in consciousness and they spend their lives talking about it! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u190	Three years with the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u191	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the third year of a legislature, the last budget and one year of legislative elections, would be bad if we were all discussing the past. If that is the choice of the Socialist Party, which presents the Budget, it is its option. from the CDS, since the 2016 State Budget we have presented alternative proposals. Some of us have maintained — which is a bad sign, means that they have not been considered — and others know that they have made their way. For example, it is interesting to hear about the family social pass today. That proposal of the CDS has come to an end! It may be that one day one is talking about being able to discuss one's social pass throughout the country, because today, much of the country can't do it because it simply doesn't have transport! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u192	On the day you have transport, you will also be able to discuss and look at what is happening in the large metropolitan areas — and we must be aware of it — with the concern of the country being investing there and also need to make a more coherent investment. Mr President, to finish — before I tell you, I will have to do this justice, I say that I will finish — I mean something relevant and also related to CDS proposals: birth. Last week, we presented a very large set of proposals and other parties also presented them. What no one understands is that there are parties that reject 10 or 20 proposals from other parties only because they are not theirs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u194	This kind of policy will be highly penalized because people realize that we have differences, they realize that we cannot do everything at the same time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u195	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u196	... but do not realize that we reject each other only because we are « one» and because we are « another». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u197	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the political declaration of the CFP Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group has held its parliamentary days in the Santarém district at the time when the affirmation of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy is assumed as the central and decisive issue to address the serious and persistent national problems, to ensure the development of the country and to raise the living and working conditions of the Portuguese. With the struggle of the workers and the people and the decisive initiative of the CFP, it was possible to stop the violent antisocial offensive and the sharp impoverishment that was in progress in 2015, overthrow the government that was leading it and, in an altered framework of relations of forces, recover rights and income and improve the living conditions of the people. It was a step we knew necessary to create conditions for, with the development of the struggle, opening other horizons to the solution of the country's problems, solutions which have, however, been limited by the PS Government's options to maintain, in key areas of governance, the policy guidelines that led to the decline and the serious dependency situation in the country. An alternative policy for the development of the country cannot underestimate the meaning and consequences of a backward national production sector. A country that does not produce has no future! The drainage of resources and resources to which the country has been subjected due to the unbearable burden of public debt, coupled with the taxation of the euro and the budget treaty, is not dissociated from the drastic reduction of public investment, with the serious implications of the lack of response in public services, equipment, infrastructure and the sacrifice of the national production apparatus. The Government continues to insist that it is possible to solve the problems of the country and to ensure its development by maintaining submission to the European Union and the euro and the bond of unsustainable debt. But the fact is that the small positive variations in our economy do not illustrate the long trajectory of stagnation since the entry of the euro and the fact that public investment has been at the level of 21 years. Portugal needs a policy and a government that has decidedly promoted productive investment and national production, having as its central objectives full employment, import substitution, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the reindustrialisation of the country, the strengthening of innovation and research and the participation of the State in strategic sectors. The recovery of public control of the strategic sectors of the economy is a condition for the country to develop and ensure its sovereignty. Portugal needs an enterprise sector of the strong and dynamic state, at the service of democracy and development, an essential factor in responding to the problems of the country, keeping in national hands decisive economic levers, promoting a policy of employment and raising living conditions. EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ), which the PCP Parliamentary Group has visited on these days, plays a strategic role in the railway sector as the last by which it is possible to rebuild the national productive capacity of railway rolling stock. As maintenance is one of the main problems of the national railway route, the CFP will re-present its draft resolution for the integration of EMEF into the CP, proposing the reunification of railway maintenance, the financial consolidation of CP ( Portugal Trains ), the development of urgent and necessary measures for the hiring of workers, the eradication of precariousness and the reduction of the external acquisition of services. With regard to PPPs ( public-private partnerships ), it will have particular meaning for the government to take the option of granting Fertagus the railway crossing over the Roof. in this specific case, in which the concession ends in 2019, what is required is the end of this PPP and the recovery of this service to the public sphere without the subterfuge of the harmful compensations of the state and with benefits to the state and to the users. The CFP draft resolution with this objective is already scheduled for the next day 18. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment in infrastructure is essential for national development and for each of the regions of the country. In the district of Santarém, the crossing of the Tejo calls for urgent decisions in the connections of Constance on the south bank and from Golegã to Chamusca. These crossings are fundamental for the populations and businesses of the Middle Tejo region, as well as for the access to the military infrastructures of Tancos and Santa Margarida and the Ecological Park of the Revão. in the same way, it appears urgent to re-qualify the national road No 118, between Samora Correia and Abrantes, in order to reduce the respective fallacy and the construction of variants that remove the car traffic from the center of the numerous places that this route crosses. Transparency in the definition of public investments essential to the development of the country is a democratic requirement. With the abolition of PIDDAC, the State budget has ceased to explicitly include the budgeting and multiannual programming of planned or implemented investment projects. Investment programmes became in the discretion of governments, without decisive action by the Assembly of the Republic and without public scrutiny of the priorities or the degree of implementation of projects, leaving public investment in the hands of the political convenience of the governments in office. In order to change this situation, the CFP will propose the amendment of the Budget Framework Act, in order to oblige the inclusion in the State budget, on its own maps and with sectoral and regional distribution, with annual allocation and multiannual programming, of the State investment projects to be implemented, with reference to their respective sources of funding. The balanced development of our country requires much more than delegating tasks or deconcentrating services in the authorities. Obviously, the CFP upholds the principle of decentralization as enshrined in the Constitution. However, what is really at stake is the conditions and means for the exercise of competence, so that, in fact, there is an improvement in the quality and efficiency of the provision of public service and not only a transfer to the authorities of charges and problems that the government has long been irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u199	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u200	I conclude by saying that Portugal needs a policy and a government to overcome the serious social problems accumulated in a country marked by deep injustices and inequalities, from the outset, in the distribution of national income between capital and labour. Portugal needs a policy of valuing work and workers and therefore the CFP announced that the legislative agenda that it marked for the next 12 October will be dedicated to the discussion of the draft resolution that proposes the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € in January 2019. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u201	Mr President, four Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. You will do well to tell the Bureau how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u202	After every request for clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u203	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to address the CFP Parliamentary Group. It is always good to see a parliamentary group on parliamentary days in the Santarém district, especially with the agenda you have been concerned about following up some of the issues that have long feared not to be resolved. Mr.António Filipe, I wanted to say that we had in fact four years between 2011 and 2015 without a single euro invested in the Santarém district. There is no memory of a work, one, in the district of Santarém that can be announced. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It is true that in these four years the closure of courts, social security balconies and health extensions continued. It was four years black for the district of Santarém. You went to visit EMEF. Surely he saw the company restructured, working, he saw that he hired 36 more workers for his paintings and that he had, as a plan for 2019, hired so many others, because, in fact, the circulating material that exists in Portugal deserves to be recovered there, in that company. You know very well that we installed a TAC equipment ( computerized axial tomography) at the Tomar hospital, very important for the Tejo Medium. You know that at the moment we have the national road competition No. 361, between Alcanena and Alcanede, and it is to be launched, this week or in the next days, for the construction of a road between Alcanede and Santarém, also an extremely important road, economically very important for the district of Santarém. But Mr Constance has EUR 5 million in PETI 3, in the Horizon programme for its requalification and it is expected that the Government and the infrastructure of Portugal will be able to quickly launch a competition whose studies are being carried out for this bridge to be recovered. That is very important and you did very well to underline it here. But the Almeirim-Entronicamento connection, to replace the national road No 118, is very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u205	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u206	So I would like to ask you a question: does the honourable Member recognise that, unlike the previous four years, there is now a government that decides, there is a government that is committed and there is a government that does? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u207	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u208	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr António Gameiro not only for the questions, but also for his congratulations on the fact that we have made the parliamentary journey in a district where he is elected. Obviously, we know that Santarém district is not an island in the country as a whole, and the difficulties and problems affecting this district are common, although they have their particularities. Having spent our days in this district, we wanted to bring, as examples, realities that we already knew, but for which we had a direct contact that these parliamentary days have provided. Mr President, what we have seen is that in the Santarém district, as well as in the country as a whole, one of the problems is in fact the lack of public investment for many years, and that according to the analysis we have made and that it seems to us to be a given objective, it is in fact the constraints that have been created by obedience to the convergence criteria that have been imposed on us by the European Union, which are obviously based on the single currency of the euro, which have led the country to have an investment level identical to that of 21 years ago. Now, this has consequences and the concrete consequences are those that we have seen here and that it is necessary to overcome, such as embarrassments such as those that exist in the Tejo crossings, with hundred-year bridges; or even large companies, including large exporting companies, such as Mitsubishi, in Tramagal, who, on their way to the Port of Sines, has to go along the national road No 118, a road with immense difficulties, which passes through cities that, daily, are crossed by huge heavy vehicles, with great problems of loving and environmental of all kinds. Obviously it is necessary to make public investment. But we also say that in addition to public investment, there is a need for transparency in public investment. You did well to talk about EMEF, because we have a lot of concerns about this company. EMEF is at present a single company with regard to the possibility of a national company responding to the problems of railway maintenance, a problem that everyone today recognises.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u209	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u210	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. He said that we have a lot of concern, given the average ageing of EMEF workers, and we felt that there is a need to rejuvenate that company, hire more workers and put in a position to respond better to what is required by the development of the country and the maintenance of the national railway. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u211	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Serra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, two good initial notes: the first, because it places the district of Santarém at the heart of the debate, which is important to strengthen the need for territorial cohesion; the second, because the CFP has once again been voiced, has now been demanding a year of elections, as it happened three years ago. It is therefore good for democracy and important for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u214	Mr António Filipe said that the lack of the works and investments he spoke about — and many of them are not in that range he spoke about here, as did some of those mentioned by the PS Member — showed that for four years there was no investment because the country was in a bad state where there was no money, but Mr Deputies also showed, by listing the promises he made here, that for three years it was "ball", today in a climate of openness and money for everyone. So, honourable Member, what was important was to hear where the 62 million euros are at Santarém District Hospital, to work with dignity. More: where is the completion of the works of the operating block? Where is the national road No. 362, whose project has been launched for three years? Where is the second phase of the national road No 361, the first phase of which was executed between 2011 and 2015? True, between 2011 and 2015, the first phase of the national road No. 361 has been re-qualified, but we have been waiting for the second phase for three years. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Where is the conclusion of the IC3, as important as the honourable Member has already mentioned, for the Eco Parque do Relvão? Where is IC9 connected to A1? Where is the retraining of the northern railway line also? So many promises that have been made by this government and so far three years have passed and not one totton to Santarém! Mr. Deputies, these investments are going to be made three years ago. Before these three years, the honourable Member had no responsibilities in the governance of the country, but now he has. For three years, therefore, the honourable Member has approved all the budgets where these investments were lacking and they still need to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u215	Mr. Deputy, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u216	Mr. President, I will finish. Mr Member, if the PS does not include these investments in the next State budget, what will be the position of the CFP? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u217	You have the floor to answer, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u218	Mr President, Mr Nuno Serra, the honourable Member welcomes the fact that over three years the CFP has been re-appropriating. Well, I want to say hello to the fact that over the past three years, I've stopped being distracted... [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...because he's certainly been distracted these three years. This is because the CFP has never ceased to defend what it considers fair in this House of the Republic. In fact, since the honourable Member has focused very much, and well, his intervention on the question of investment, I must say that one of the issues we consider fundamental is that there is transparency in public investment, which is no longer possible when at the beginning of the past legislature you agreed to end with an important instrument of public investment scrutiny, which was the IDDAC ( Investment Plan and Development Expenditures of the Central Administration ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u219	Exactly! [[Protests by PSD MP José de Matos Rosa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u220	As you did not anticipate any public investment, it was good to end the PIDDAC, because so people realized less of the absence, which has taken place, of investment. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] That is why we are going to propose, and we have already announced, that the budgets of the State should again contain the appropriations for the public investment of the central administration, with their sources of financing, with the annual appropriations and the multiannual charges provided for, so that there can be a concrete decision by this House of the Republic and the necessary public scrutiny of what investments are, so that they do not remain in the discretionary nature of public expenditure — what people normally call 'blue bags'. We are going to make this proposal and, honourable Member, since you have talked about the State budget and our responsibilities, we want to count on yours. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, in view of the proposals presented by the CFP regarding public investments that we consider unquestionably necessary, we will be here to see whether the PSD will support these proposals, because if it does, they will have many possibilities to be viable. Here we are waiting for the PSD to assume its responsibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u221	Let's make a checklist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u222	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u223	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr António Filipe on the fact that the CFP has made the parliamentary days in the Santarém district and has brought here issues which, although they are transversal throughout the country, also have a lot to do with this district. Mr President, when I heard him speak of the rostrum, in the need of the CFP to defend an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, I suddenly had doubts that it was the same CFP that every year, for three years, has supported this government and that it has voted in favour of its State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u224	Often against the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u225	I doubt it, and I would therefore like to ask what alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy the CFP has faced with that which it has supported in the last three years. The CFP says it has always advocated improving public services and improving the living conditions of workers. The honourable Member spoke of the EMEF, he spoke of the infrastructure at the CP, whose workers are on strike. What happened to improving living conditions, for example, of nurses who recently left Abrantes hospital in chaos? What has happened to the 62 million euros — already mentioned here — which are necessary for the Court of Auditors to unlock funds to complete the operating block, to unlock the contract for meals to patients and to unlock the contract, see the computer services necessary for that hospital? Oh, my God! In addition to large infrastructures, there are also small investments that are very necessary. Where, for example, is the patriotic and left-wing policy necessary to ensure investments to the territorial post of the GNR of Alpiarça in order to give better conditions to the military of that municipality or, for example, those of Salvaterra de Magos, no longer to speak of Alcanede and Pernes? Question : Where is it and what is the patriotic and left-wing policy that the PCP defends? In conclusion, Mr Deputy, in relation to the district and in particular to the municipality of Santarém — one of the richest municipalities in the country at agricultural level — I ask what is the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP, which both defends national sovereignty, has to unlock the investments so necessary in the RDP (Regional Director Plan) and to stop being 16 000 candidates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u226	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u227	... 16 000 farmers waiting for the investment and the State budget to be able to invest, create wealth and, in fact, create better living conditions for all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u228	You have the floor to answer, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u229	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me an opportunity to undo a mistake: it is that alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy is not this! [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u230	Don't! Mrs. Deputy is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u231	Sure! It's evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u232	Now I'm getting the speech you've had. It's just that you guys have been wrong. [[CDS-PP protests.]] When you hand it over to the real to say "you are in government, you are in government, you are in government" is because you have not yet realized what the CFP defends, and what I said in the rostrum, the policy we stand for is not compatible with the constraints — which you accept, too — that are imposed on us by the euro and by the European Union. [[PCP applause.]] But I hope that, from here on forward, you will desist from this absolutely phantasmagorical speech and focus on what is reality. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Madam Member, do you know why the Court of Auditors did not give the prior visa to making the necessary investments in the hospitals you referred to? That's due, you know what? It is due to the Law of Commitments that you have approved! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u233	He owes himself to your cap!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u234	It was not the drastic constraints that you imposed on public spending, even on that which is absolutely necessary and which, in this case, can save lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u235	Let's pay! Pay for the ticket!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u236	...not the Law of the Compromises, these investments were possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u237	Let's pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u238	Therefore, you do not want, as our people say, "to do evil and to do evil",...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u239	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u240	... i.e. to be responsible for the decisions, to be responsible for the causes and then to regret the consequences! That's what you guys can't do! [[PCP applause.]] By the way, Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u241	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u242	Mr. President, I will finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who creates chaos in hospitals is not the nurses! What creates chaos is the lack of them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u243	You have the floor, for the last request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u244	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the CFP and Mr António Filipe on their parliamentary work and say that we share the diagnosis you have made here, the evaluation that makes the importance of the political solution we have found together in 2015 and we also agree that there are the limitations here. There is a limitation that is obvious and undeniable, which is the lack of public investment that has occurred, alongside other limitations, namely that it has not been possible to go further so far, reverting the measures imposed by the troika in the labour code and recovering collective bargaining as a way to recover wages, to recover the rights of workers and workers. We know the root of these limitations, many of them linked to the ideological choices of the Socialist Party; the case of labour law has little to do with budgetary matters, but we know that the great limitation imposed on the State budgets has to do with European rules, which have proved not to protect the country, but, on the contrary, to be a permanent obstacle to its development. We look back over the past three years, and we see that when the government challenged the European Commission, things went well. When the European Commission was challenged, it was possible to have more investment, it was possible to raise pensions, it was possible to increase the minimum wage, contrary to what the right and the European Commission — always quite aligned in their opinions — said that it would cause disaster. On the contrary, when the government obeyed the European Commission, particularly with regard to the New Bank and Banif, things went wrong and we lost very important banks for the Portuguese system, without necessarily being able to solve their financial problems, on the contrary, with the money of the State. We also share the solutions that the honourable Member pointed out here: investment, control of strategic sectors, capacity for intervention in the economy. This requires financial capacity, but also the country's democratic capacity to decide on what is important to it. In addition to the priorities you have set and I follow, I would like to add another one and ask whether Mr. Member understands that the SNS (National Health Service) is also a concern, that public health is a concern and that, within this public health, we should have as a priority to end PPPs, which in some way represent a private business that has been sucking public health resources, but also approve a basic health law that protects the National Health Service that came out of April 25...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u245	Mrs. Deputy, I'd ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u246	... and that we want it to be a National Health Service in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u247	Thank you very much for your readiness. You have the floor to answer, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u248	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I thank you for the questions you have raised. In fact, there is a problem our country is facing. Important steps have been taken in this legislature, in order to reverse severely harmful measures to the Portuguese people, measures taken by the previous government, and we do not devalue these steps, on the contrary, we believe that they were very important and that they should be valued. Now, the question is whether we can be satisfied with what has been achieved or whether we consider it necessary to go further, because this corresponds to an expectation created by the Portuguese citizens who have defeated the PSD/CDS government policy and who have allowed us to create a correlation of forces in this House to remove the PSD and the CDS from the Government and to reverse decisions that have been deeply negative, denying the idea that it would be a disaster if these policies were changed and if these measures were to be reversed, and in fact the behaviour of the economy and employment shown that it was not so, that the parties on the right were deceived and that improving the living conditions of the Portuguese is better for the national economy. But, Madam Member, we are aware of the very serious problems that, in particular, the lack of public investment has brought about, namely, the question of access to health mentioned here by the honourable Member. Now, what we consider fundamental in the area of access to health is to value the national health service's own capacity and to reverse this tendency to be the state to pay, to finance private people at the cost of the health budget, at the cost of public resources. Therefore, the investment in the National Health Service's own capacity is a matter that we consider fundamental. We find it crucial, even in this legislature and for our country to have a future, that there are conditions to invest in the valorization of public services and also in the exploitation of Portuguese wages, altering a profound injustice, which is the inequality of income that still exists in our country, the inequality between the keen incomes of capital and the weak incomes of labor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u249	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u250	I will finish, Mr. President. It is important to value the work, to value the workers and therefore we have decided to put on the agenda, for very soon, the value of the national minimum wage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u251	For a political declaration, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality is contrary to government propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u254	The conditions were created for the announcement to be made with pump and circumstance, but the deadlines are not met, what was promised, is not being made. As the Left Block said a few days ago on this matter, we are facing a strange problem. Let us then speak of one of the commitments of this government, a commitment of the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, taken in November 2015 at the beginning of this legislature : the promise of integration of 116 000 workers with precarious links to work in the State, 116 000 workers in this situation identified, one by one, in the diagnosis of the precariousness of this government. It included trainees, fellow students, researchers, social security lovers, beneficiaries of employment-inclusion contracts, long-term contracts, green receipt providers working in the various bodies, trainers of the Employment and Vocational Training Institute, coordination and regional development committees (CDRs), hospitals, schools — these are just a few for example. The criteria were binding and, in an attempt to exclude these workers by this government, a number of 31,957 workers who were required to see their integration achieved. With data from last Friday, we know that, for example, in the education sector, there were 6895 workers who presented a request and there are only 25 vacancies open.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u255	Alone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u256	Therefore, an execution of 0, 4 % based on the number of applicants is referred to, because we still do not know the number of applicants with a negative opinion. However, 0, 4 % of implementation is nothing, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It's zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u258	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the lack of ethics of this government, nothing better than promising and creating the expectation of thousands and thousands of workers and their families to then, if possible, integrate only a few and, in the thinking of those who rule us, of some workers, only integrate whom we want. Today, almost three years have passed with time-consuming deadlines, with unconcreted calendars, with promised competitions that have never been opened, it seems that PS, Left Block and PCP call again to Parliament dozens and dozens of workers to talk about the errors and delays of PREVPAP, of the Special Regularization Programme of the Pre-Trial Links in the Public Administration. It seems we are back at the beginning of this programme. It seems that everything will start again, when, according to the promise and when we walk to the end of 2018, all workers should already be integrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u260	The two-party evaluation committees (CAB) set up to assess the demands of workers were called to each of the parliamentary committees by the parties themselves that proposed this Programme, in a kind of setting to attribute to others their own guilt, their own mistakes, their own failures, their own failures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP, must assume responsibilities, conclusions must be drawn. This share of responsibilities, the organic confusion in the protection of the Programme reveals that the aim of this Government is not that the Programme is successful and that workers are integrated. Far from it! The objective of Minister Vieira da Silva is to ensure that no part of management falls to the ground,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u262	...everything has to remain well oiled, because it was on the basis of labour matters that the agreements between the parties that did not win the elections were signed. The Left Block and the PCP don't care that everything remains to be accomplished, they just want the Portuguese and their voters not to understand this theater. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as time passes, more sense reminds the Portuguese that the PSD has not accompanied...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u263	Say why!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u264	... and did not favour this proposal for a government law on the extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u265	He voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u266	So let us see, Mrs Deputies, this way: the lack of rigour and weighting, for example, makes it possible for me to begin to discuss the problem of the lack of school and professional qualifications of hundreds of workers who have applied for it, but who are now excluded from public tenders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u267	What a piece of shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u268	For example, workers whose links were ending have approved requirements, but were exempted, in an unfair, very unjust attempt, from being removed from the contests,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u269	And what did the PSD do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u270	...so if they are no longer in the occupation of the job, if they are already at home, this hypothesis may be withdrawn from them. This doesn't integrate, it's goodbye! There is also a lack of structural reform of the entire Public Administration, addressing current needs, predicting futures and modernizing the Public Administration, qualifying and valuing workers for rapid responses to citizens and businesses. Finally, we are faced with the cynicism of a government which says to combat precariousness in the private and the public, but which instead increases it. According to the latest Public Employment Statistics Bulletin, from 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2017, there was an increase of 50 % of workers receiving green income in the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u271	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u272	I will finish, yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, workers with precarious links were deceived by this government; students and their families do not find schools open when they start school year due to lack of operational assistants; teachers continue their struggles; the National Health Service continues without dignified conditions and unstoppable degradation. We're all waiting for a government that takes a long time to arrive! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u273	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to ask for clarification, answering the honourable Member, secondly she informed the Bureau of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when I heard that the PSD political statement this afternoon was about the plan to regularize precarious workers, I thought it was a mistake, but then I realized that they would certainly not make such a mistake. Then I thought it was to apologize—and they had very good reasons to apologize and had a missed opportunity today to apologize. [[PSD protests.]] They apologize to the 32 000 candidates, to the 12 000 workers regularized under PREVPAP in the central administration and to many others in the local administration, that the PSD in this and other debates continues to accuse them of being boys, of having tailored competitions, but has not so far presented a single element that supports this blatantly lying accusation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u276	But not only. They also have to apologize for the loss of 70,000 public officials during your governance and the increase in precariousness and because in this legislature they voted against the program of regularization of precariousness and then did not follow any of the projects that corrected failures, as is the case with regard to the linkage of workers who have the experience but not the qualifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u278	Delay, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? Are you here to talk about delays in this program? Oh, my God! Yes, with you there would indeed be no delay, because there would simply be no programme for regulating precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Carla Barros said there were zero regularizations. It was not zero, it was 12 000 bonds, it was 12 000 bonds of precariousness! And you guys have contributed zero — zero! — for this outcome and therefore add zero to the solutions that workers need. Solutions in the field of combating precariousness, but not only. Solutions within which you have excluded: the end of the requalification and mobility regime; the elimination of restrictions on hiring; the replacement of working hours; the replacement of holidays; the replacement of wages; the defrosting of careers. You have always been against all these measures and therefore continue to be part of the problem and never of the solutions. You have criticised and combated the programme for the regularization of precarious workers. You were against all the measures of valorisation of the public administration workers that we have adopted here over three years. Madam Member, if you would like to regulate the precarious workers, why did the PSD vote against this Programme and, to date, did not present a single alternative proposal to solve it? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u279	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Barros, I would like to tell you, with a great deal of border, that anyone who never wanted this programme has no moral to criticize. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u281	The PSD, who voted against this Programme, cannot now come to point problems to what voted against. [[PSD protests.]] Moreover, as has already been said, the PSD, as a specialist, presented zero, zero amendments. He came here to talk about deadlines and procedures, but when the PSD could have intervened, zero, zero proposals! More, Madam Member : It is that over four years between 2011 and 2015 the CFP has brought here a proposal for a report — a report! — on the reality of precariousness in public administration. I repeat, a report! How did the PSD and the CDS vote? Against! They didn't want to count them, the more regular their situation. This shows very well who over the years not only generalized precariousness as he wanted to « throw into the eye of the street » 700 workers from the Institute of Social Security. The CDS had the social security folder, promoted a process called requalification that was to requalify to « the street eye», was to fire 700 workers, some of whom disabled people, and now, all the time, we heard the CDS talking about people with disabilities. They wanted to fire these social security workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u282	Always kicking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u283	... and now they still have the political hypocrisy to come here to point problems to a programme for which they voted against. There are problems for which, in fact, the CFP has presented solutions, for any of them. We said this process takes a 20-year delay. The process of regulating precariousness in the Public Administration takes a delay of 20 years because these workers have been providing permanent needs for decades without having their rights enshrined and with much lower wages. Therefore, the position of the CFP is very clear: all employees of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State, all workers of the IPMA, of the RTP ( Radio Television of Portugal ), of the CP, of the IEFP ( Institute of Employment and Vocational Training)...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u284	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u285	I'm done, Mr. President. ... trainers of IEFP, operational assistants, at school, in health, in social security, all who respond to permanent needs must be effective. We count on the commitment of the CFP, the struggle of the workers, but the hypocrisy of the PSD is not. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u286	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u287	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the kindness of the two questions you have put to me. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Mrs Rita Rato have to be called here at the starting point. You are very much fighting the country's history at various points that have touched on PSD's action in relation to public officials. They are fighting the history of the country because it was precisely in 2009 in the full electoral campaign that the Eng. José Socrates, of the Socialist Party,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u288	... he promised to increase wages and immediately in 2010 caused the first escalation of cuts in the salaries of public servants. [[PSD applause.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u289	That has to be remembered. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something else to be mentioned. Who started the replacement of employees'salaries was the PSD, in 2015. The recovery of public employees'income was made by the PSD, in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u290	Well remembered! [[PS laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u291	Then there is a question that needs to be said about the morality of the PSD to talk about these matters: we have morality. Do you know who says we have morality to talk about these matters, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Mrs Rita Rato? These are the official data, are the reports of DGAEP (Directorate General of Administration and Public Employment),... [[PS protests.]] ... a public body which processes quarterly and semi-annual data, which refers to data of precariousness. And I'm going to tell you that we can compare data there between the PS government and the PS government. Let me ask you a question here: Does the honourable Member know that, from June 2015 to June 2018, therefore, was the Government of the Socialist Party already, the precariousness in the Public Administration went from 10, 7 % to 11, 6 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u292	Oh, oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u293	It's not precarious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u294	There are no comparisons between two different governments. But now we're going to catch up on periods of the Socialist Party's own government and we're going to compare precariousness. So let's see: from June 2017 to June 2018, being this period of the Socialist Party Government, precariousness continues to increase. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how can the PSD align with a strategy of political opportunism...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u295	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u296	...in a lying strategy for the country? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u297	We have morality, we have morality for, whenever we want, to monitor the action of the government, even if in the proposals we vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u298	No doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u299	They are disastrous proposals for the country, they are highly penalizing proposals for public administration, for citizens, for businesses, for workers themselves; they are unfair, they create injustices at all levels, they do not modernize the public administration, they do not value workers. With this and this record, the PSD cannot effectively follow up any of these proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u300	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u301	The next request for clarification, the third with regard to this political statement, is for Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two days ago, on Monday, 124 precarious workers from the High Commissioner for Migration stopped being precarious workers and saw their recognized link. There were 12 years ago as precarious in the High Commissioner. I received several messages and wanted to welcome the victory of these workers here. In the same High Commissioner, there are some workers who have been illegally and strangely excluded for not having compulsory education now, the 12th. year. Today, in the Commission, the final draft of a proposal from the Left Block was set out to recommend that the Government correct this situation. The workers who were linked to the High Commissioner and the workers who were unfortunately excluded had, in one case or another, the Left Block on their side. in one case and another, they had the PSD against their integration and they had the PSD against their inclusion in this program. This afternoon I was in Algeria with about 200 workers from the IPMA, the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere. There were 126 workers in the IPMA who had a positive opinion and have already been approved. at the end of 19 years, 15 years old, 20 years old, these workers will be linked to that Institute, and they are not yet because the Ministry of Finance is making a "implementation game" with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the IPMA to delay the opening of the competitions. These workers know that they have had the Left Block next to them, as the 50 workers of the IPMA who are currently on appeal. They know that they have the Left Block on their side when we call here Parliament the Bipartite Assessment Committee to discuss this situation. in one case and another, in fact, Mrs Deputy, I didn't see her with the IPMA workers today, but I don't admire her. Of course, Mrs Deputy was not there because she knew that it would be supported by precarious workers who know that the PSD voted against its regularization and that if it depended on the PSD they would continue with a precarious bond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u303	How do you know that? You're a petulant!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u304	However, there are those who think like the PSD. The RTP Administration or the principals are boycotting the law we have made and that is why we have called the principals in Parliament, we have called the higher education CAB and we have already called the RTP Administration. It is that we, who have done the law, who have committed ourselves to it, that we have negotiated it in detail, that we have presented dozens of proposals in the specialty to correct and improve the proposal for the law of the government, we are on the side of the law, the integration of the precarious ones, and we are struggling every day with the precarious workers so that no one will stay behind. The PSD voted against, never submitted any proposals. The workers know they count on the Block and know they never counted and don't count on the PSD. So, in the face of a gesture of cynicism as regrettable as the one we are seeing here today, I have a question to ask you, which is the following, Mrs. Member: is there no shame in your face? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Rice from PSD deputy Carla Barros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u305	I give the floor to Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u306	Mr President, Mrs Carla Barros has brought us here today the subject of the regularization of the precariouss. You did well to do so. in this debate, moreover, I confess that I expected a little more humility and self-criticism from the PS, the Left Block and the PCP. It's just that PS, Left Block and PCP have been promising everything to everyone in the vote hunt. It was 116 000 who were going to be regularized and promised everyone — trainees, fellows, researchers, employment-inclusion contracts, etc. etc. — that we would be integrated. right now, what do we have? A little more than 2000 vacancies in competition. So for 116 000, what we have is just over 2,000 open vacancies. Now, Mrs. Member, do you not fully understand the feeling of frustration of those to whom the PS, the Block and the PCP have deceived?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u307	What do you know about that? They don't talk to people...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u308	Don't you think that's understandable? Mrs. Member, do you not think that there are very few vacancies for such high expectations created by PS, Bloc and PCP, knowing we, moreover, that the commitment they had was that the process should be closed at the end of this year? Mrs Deputy, don't you think someone has been "selling cats for hare"? Do you think it's possible that the promises of this majority are fulfilled? Madam Member, do you not think that the time has come for PS, Left Block and PCP to apologize to the Portuguese, to apologize to the people who have cheated and are still still here trying to cheat? That's enough, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that what you have promised is impossible to fulfill, and we know that is the fact that you are now refusing to do so. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u309	You have to thank us for the patience of hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u310	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u311	Mr President, I am grateful for the kindness of these two requests for clarification. Let me tell you, Mr. José Soeiro, the aggressive, petulant and absolutely unacceptable form with which you address me, on a subject whose responsibility is yours...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u313	...and of the parties that make up this government, it deserves my answer to be with a smile so that your fresh air will change. [[PSD applause.]] I would still like to remind you, Mr. Deputies, some data, from June 2015 until June... Besides, from December 31, 2015 until December 31, 2016... I am sorry, I am fighting the months, are given from June 2015 until June 2018, which have to do with the number of workers who have been admitted to the Public Administration, that is, workers who admitted, that were 20 558 workers. You know, how many of these workers have been admitted in time? They were admitted in time, not by PSD and CDS, they were admitted by VV. Ex....
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u314	Liar! They're liars!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u315	..., I repeat, by VV. Ex., the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party, who rule over us in these three years, who admit precariousness and increase precariousness as if there were no tomorrow. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u316	Do you understand, Mr. Deputy? Do you know that, of the 20 558 workers who have entered, 8610 workers are hired in time?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u317	They can paint the face near!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u318	We have 42 % of these workers who have been caught in precariousness. Did you know about these numbers, Your Honor? I didn't know! So let me tell you another question. Regarding these data, he uses very strong, adjective words, nouns things, as if the guilt of the PSD. I want to tell you that it is not the musicality of words that confirms our rigour and our consistency.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u319	No, it's contracts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u320	Do you know what confirms our rigor and consistency? It is that the PSD is a party of the governance arc, left history, left actions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u321	He's gone, he's gone! He left the register! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u322	... and the official data, Mr. Member, tell us that who is creating precariousness, who has to be ashamed to speak to Portuguese, public officials, workers with precarious links is the Left Block, it is the PCP and it is the Socialist Party, it is not the PSD. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u323	You have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u324	And the wedding!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u325	But there is a lesson to be learned here today: the debate was really uncomfortable. However, the discomfort for the PSD does not exist, it is part of the parliamentary debate, it does not exist! Now our hope is that this will mean a great deal to the thousands of precarious workers who are awaiting an answer and the commitment of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u327	by precarious workers, by the expectations that you have created...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u328	Why didn't you go to the IPMA? Why don't you go to the High Commissioner? Why don't you talk to the workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u329	...and in the context of our monitoring of government activity, we will always have legitimacy to ask whatever it is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u330	We have entered the second point of our agenda which is the joint assessment of Petition No 432 / XIII / 3. a ( Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão Gonçalves de Campos et al.) — They request the improvement of laws for the protection of equidae and, in general, of the Bill No 980 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — It foresees the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection and the draft resolution No 1785/ XIII/3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a survey on the use of equidae in animal traction vehicles and consequently regulations. For the opening of the debate on this point, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the group of citizens who brought this important issue to Parliament, and today the NAP is accompanying them with two initiatives. The first, among other things, allows the functional fitness of equidae to contemplate the possibility of these being registered as pets, which currently does not happen. That is, even those people who own a horse exclusively to keep them company, they necessarily have to register with a goal that does not correspond to reality, for example, as an animal of production or competition. It makes no sense this distortion of reality, just as it makes no sense that these animals, being detained for company, are excluded from the protection conferred by the law of criminalization of ill-treatment of animals. In addition, we argue that the Government lays down more stringent rules on the driving of animal traction vehicles, road safety and animal welfare. in contrast to the other vehicles operating on the roads, animal traction vehicles are not approved, signaled or even secured for public circulation. With regard to the driver, the law is omitted in the requirements to be observed. No clearance is required, despite the side-by-side circular vehicle with other motor vehicles. Even a child can drive freely! There is no requirement to know the rules of the Road Code and there is no penalty for alcoholic drivers. Questions are also raised about the welfare of the animals concerned. Often they are subject to: excess load, deficit feeding, lack of drinking, lack of protection against weather, poor application of equipment that causes pain and discomfort. It's a fact, sir. Members: there is no specific regulation for the use of animals in traction transport, and therefore the well-being of these animals is greatly disregarded. In view of the above, the NAP reiterates the need for discussion on this subject, seeking to involve all parliamentary groups and the Government itself in regulating the conditions and requirements for the movement of transport, as well as in raising the number of persons and companies using this type of vehicle, and there must of course be time and space to listen to and involve regulatory entities and social and economic actors.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u332	I have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, are to greet the thousands of subscribers who have given body to this petition that we are discussing and whose purposes, on the one hand, are to enshrine in Law No 69 / 2014 the ill-treatment of unregistered equidae belonging to individuals, subject to ill-treatment or death and, on the other hand, the aggravation of the fines relating to equidae. This discussion reminds us of the need to strengthen mechanisms to prevent or safeguard respect for animals and, in particular, respect for the well-being of equidae. It is true that the Greens accompany the concerns of the petitioners, but there are two doubts we want to leave here now. The first concerns whether the origin of the problem lies more in the lack of legislation or in the lack of supervision and enforcement of existing laws. The second concerns the escalation of penalties or sanctions. It is true that, in thesis and as a general principle, the Greens have always considered — as they continue to consider — that the perpetrators of crimes, when they practice them, do so regardless of the penalty. That is, the criminal framework for each type of crime, and even the value of the fine provided for for each counter-ordination, weighs little on the decision whether or not to practice crime or counter-ordination. However, in this respect it seems to us that the situation has different contours and can have a very important preventive effect, with a range that should not be minimized or minimized. This means that the Greens recognise that there is a need to take action on this matter, either through legislation or through the strengthening of supervision, but it must be an effort made without any fundamentalism, because in this context it is necessary to caution, from the outset, the activities of the rural world, safeguarding activities duly licensed, which are already subject to demanding rules, both national and Community, as regards animal welfare. Finally, it is true that there are situations where, in fact, horses may not be treated properly. We refer, for example, to the use of horses for tourist trolleys, in which animals often do not have time to rest, often taking many hours to travel, regardless of the high temperatures that make them feel, which, of course, will have consequences for animal welfare. However, it is also true that the perception that the Greens have is that, in general, the horses used in the rural world are well treated, with strict respect for the rules laid down. The Greens therefore accompany the concerns of the petitioners and express their openness to welcome the proposals which, without fundamentalism and with balance, seek to meet the claims of the petitioners, in order to protect the welfare of these animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u334	For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet the petitioners for their civic initiative, in particular the association concerned, which has made a significant contribution on animal welfare in Portuguese society. With regard to animal welfare, Portugal has known a number of changes, including changes to the Civil Code and the Criminal Code, which today place the country with much more advanced legislation in these areas. Today we are debating the equidae here in Parliament. The centrality of horses and donkeys in human life is a millennial relationship—in farming, transport, hunting, sports—and has been a constant in human development. The NAP presents today a legislative proposal which aims to introduce in the Blue Book or in the Green Book of Equidae the functional fitness of the equidae, changing it whenever there is a change of aptitude and thus ignoring the generality of cases where the horse performs more of a function in the same period of time. The NAP project is based on an even greater misunderstanding than this pure ignorance of rural life. Although it does not confess, the NAP basically claims that the equidae are granted pet status. The pet is a detained animal, or intended to be arrested, by the human being, especially in his home, for his entertainment and company. And only the PAN to imagine a horse or a donkey lying at the foot of the owner, in his living room, in the heat of the fireplace, like a dog or a cat! If you want to make legal changes to this concept, you can propose them, ladies and gentlemen, but clearly and in the correct framework and not as today, in an obfuscated manner, because it leads to the very erosion of the legal concept of the pet animal. Of course, it is legitimate for the NAP to have its political agenda, but it is not legitimate for the NAP to come here to wrap its causes up in seemingly minor proposals but then have legal reflections. More: wrapping them to sub-repeatively provoke those legal changes that the NAP so much desires, in its intimate, but which later does not have the courage to come and defend them openly in the Assembly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u336	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two separate initiatives, of the NAP, about a petition that calls for the improvement of the laws of protection to equidae and whose petitioners, here present, have already complied. We all certainly defend animal welfare and the punishment of ill-treatment of animals. of this, I have no doubt. Having said that, in one of the initiatives presented here today, the NAP recommends to the Government that it regulate a set of conditions for transport in animal traction vehicles on the public road. It bases this need on a number of arguments, including the guarantee of road safety and animal welfare, claiming that accidents are not uncommon and that animals stay in the sun for a long time. The CDS had the opportunity to receive the petitioners and, following the situations reported, we were alerted to some particular issues, including road safety. That is why we asked the Minister of Internal Administration to know how many accidents with animal traction vehicles and where they have occurred in the last three years. The answer was, to us, quite elucidative, Mr. Members: there have been 111 accidents in the last three years, giving an average of about 37 accidents per year, and 40% of these accidents have occurred in the Algarve and Lisbon regions. It should be noted that the transport used for tourism requires the company to be registered as a tourist animation company and, therefore, to be secure. With regard to the need for the establishment of a maximum load, without prejudice to safeguarding the welfare of animals, we do not find this claim feasible, because the load depends on a very large set of factors, ranging from the breed to the weight of the animal, to the type of wheels of the vehicle itself and whether it is pulled by one or more animals. Therefore, there is a huge set of variables on which it depends and which would be very difficult to achieve. He is also concerned that the animals are long in the sun, but when the animals are in their natural environment, which is the countryside, they are in the sun, the wind, the rain and they live very happy. In the other initiative, the NAP intends to make changes to the legislation on the identification of equidae, claiming that only in this way are animal welfare conditions ensured. It further claims that functional fitness must be recorded in the identification document, which already happens, because, as the project itself refers, the document has a specific field for this. Mr. André Silva, the functional ability of the animal does not change because it ceases to be used for that purpose. Functional fitness depends on the animal's genetics, on the selection of the race over the centuries and on the training it had. Therefore, a horse of sport, competition or leisure that has simply arrived at the end of its useful life, as such, does not change its function. It can still be used to train young knights, for example, or simply rest. Mr President, to conclude — before I call attention — I would like to say that a retired doctor, for example, does not cease to have a professional portfolio or is obliged to leave the Medical Order, and the same is true of other professions. So it doesn't make any sense for us that a sports horse, as it turns out to be reformed, changes its functional fitness. What Mr André Silva has persistently tried in this House, in the most various ways, from the clearest and most objective to the most hidden, is to pass a law that transforms a production animal into a pet. Horses aren't pets! For this reason, Mr President, it does not count on the support of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u338	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was a subject recently discussed and voted in this Parliament, and it deserved the rejection of the Assembly of the Republic. Two years ago, when we spoke on this matter, we stressed the need to know the concrete reality of our country before we moved forward to prohibitions or recommendations. All legislative initiatives presented should be accompanied by a deep reflection that leads us to a concrete impact assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u340	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u341	The reality of our country is also made of people who live in villages, mountains and fields, a rural world that preserves more than anyone else a relationship with nature and animals;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u343	... people who treat their animals, because no one has more interest in being well cared for than their own users; abandoned people, with low reforms, without public services and without transport; disadvantaged families who see their only ally in their animal, their fellow worker. The use of animals for work is a millennial practice and is the fundamental reason for many species to have survived. The CFP was the first party to present a legislative initiative in the Assembly of the Republic to promote animal welfare and will continue to intervene for the dignity of animals. This discussion is important but cannot be done in such a way that we are indifferent to the living conditions of people, their poverty, their needs and their resources. This discussion should be a way of starting more debates on the living conditions of the populations and finding solutions to ensure, among other things, conditions of mobility and living which are still denied to them today. The NAP initiatives seek to resume positions that disregard at all the living conditions of these populations, now in a hidden but equally unsustainable way. The opinion of the National Road Safety Authority (ANSR ) is clear, rigorous and clarifys any doubts about road safety issues caused by animal traction cars. The Institute for Mobility and Transport is also perennial when it says that the use and movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road is still permitted. We spoke in favour of the dignity of animals and their well-being in today's society. That is why we reaffirm that it is not by penalizing, banning, violence against people who can make animals more protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u344	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u345	The position of the CFP is marked by reflection and coherence. We have already stated this and reaffirmed again today: we are due to the proper treatment of animals, we are for animal welfare, we are against poverty and social exclusion, we are against racism and xenophobia, we are against the improvement of living conditions and, therefore, we continue to disagree with the initiatives presented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u346	To conclude this point, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the petition we are discussing here today brings back to this plenary the questions relating to animal welfare and the extension of the validity of the law of ill-treatment to animals, to animals other than pets. And this is the structural question behind what we are raised here today, about the ill-treatment of equidae, which also extends to other livestock or sports animals or, even, tensile. However, this petition focuses on one species only and raises mainly questions in which legislation is not being correctly applied and monitored. We have identified that many of the issues raised are already covered, namely the issue of the green book in the regional dependencies of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ), the existence of microchip readers in the animal protection services of PSP or GNR, or supervision, as the competence of other entities not only of DGAV. The PSP and the GNR already have their own nuclei in their organics to respond to complaints about ill-treatment and abandonment and also do so for animals that are not only of company. Just look at the example of Setúbal or Sintra, which, in practice, already do. The obligation to register the functional application of the equidae is also already foreseen. There are other claims that do not fall within the competence of this House, such as to recommend to municipal chambers that they take initiatives to protect animal welfare or to guarantee refuge for these animals. The municipalities already have their defined competences and must, indeed, ensure animal welfare and its protection, working to do so in order to create animal collection centres and sanctuaries, but these are, at the moment, political options. Finally, the animals used for traction or locomotive are also covered by the general rules of the Road Code and can still be regulated in each municipality, also ensuring the welfare of the animals also on safety issues. Thus, it is very important that such petitions and warnings to the Assembly of the Republic on the operation and application of legislation, but it is even more important to denounce practices to the different institutions which apply the law and to those which supervise it and also to the local power, so that the changes we, as legislators, bring about the spirit of these laws in practical practice every day. It is a difficult, painful work that involves a lot of persistence, but it is not just the legislative amendment or the penalisation institution or, even, specific persecutions that alter the behaviour and practice with animals. They can count on the Left Block for the necessary legislative amendments and warnings, as well as for the obviously necessary extension of the law of ill-treatment to all animals. We have already proposed it and we will do it again. We will also follow the proposals presented here, all the more so that they extend the scope to all animal traction vehicles and not just equidae, as presented above.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u348	I apologize for my lateness recently. At this point too, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry again, there was an exchange. Who now has the floor is Mrs Palmira Maciel of the Socialist Party, and then will be Mr André Silva. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u349	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Party Persons — Animals — Nature (PAN) for the initiatives presented today on the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to their protection, and a recommendation to the Government for the preparation of a survey on the use of equidae in animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation. Since the exercise of the right of petition, as an instrument of democratic political participation, is a laudable expression of citizenship, I also welcome and particularly, at this time, the subscribers, with regard to the commitment and dedication to this cause, requesting the amendment of the legislation with a view to strengthening the protection of equidae. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the functional purpose of the equidae is not laid down in Community rules as information to be contained in the animal passport and in computer applications supporting the equidae identification register. However, this information is contained in the database supporting the registration of equidae as set out in Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August. We know that, from time to time, the functional ability of an equidae is not something definitive or static. An equidae may have various skills throughout their lives. It can be work, production, leisure and sport, and we remember in biological and biodynamic agriculture the role of animal traction. The definition of the use of the equidae at the time of registration does not seem feasible, as this implies making a decision without the knowledge of the animal's capabilities. To record your ability in the identification document will limit the use of the animal, in addition to introducing another bureaucratic factor in the transfer of ownership of that animal. We must ensure that all equidae are properly registered and in accordance with the legislation already in force. Portugal is a country with strong traditions in equestrian production and equestrian tradition, and is a model at various levels in these areas. With regard to animal welfare, nobody else but the horse users, especially our rural world, have an interest in keeping their animals in good health, food and safety conditions. The current Government has taken constant action to ensure the monitoring of animal protection, in particular on the movement of vehicles of animal traction on the public road. As regards the abandonment of animals, we consider it to be reprehensible and a violation of the rules of their well-being. We believe that its control is within the scope of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, which is responsible for monitoring and monitoring through the technicians duly registered in their respective professional orders, who are prepared to equalize it. As regards draft resolution No 1785 / XIII / 3. the, we recognize the complex operationality, considering that a significant percentage of this transport is used in a more nomadic activity. However, those used for tourist purposes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u350	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u351	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, those who are used for tourist purposes could be regulated or authorized by the municipalities, always in the perspective of defending animals and passengers. We therefore believe that we should work at an early stage in adopting good national practices on this subject and strengthen, through information and awareness-raising campaigns, compliance with safety standards associated with public traffic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u352	Mr André Silva has the floor now for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly difficult to convince those who listen to you from your language that animal welfare and animal protection are very important to you. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That royal handle! If there are people who hold horses who do not serve the purpose of work — what is true — of competition or production, if they are held as pets, what is the resistance in these specific cases to be covered by the law of protection of pets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u354	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u355	I will finish, Mr. President. The question remains: is a horse less noble than a dog or a cat? Mr President, I wanted to conclude by saying that there are those parties who pretend to want to confer more rights on animals, as is the case with the CFP, but who do not assume them. And, worse than that, they find dishonest arguments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u356	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u357	...alluding to a pretense xenophobia, so they don't have to assume that they are not committed to the rights and protection of animals. [[PCP protests.]] Whoever accompanies and knows the positions of the NAP, knows that these raster arguments are, above all, ridiculous. [[PCP protests.]] As it is said in your land: "What you have done here is a shame! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[At this moment, elements of the public in the galleries rose and applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u358	I appreciate that the people in the galleries don't speak, please. We will move on to the third point of our order of business, which is the assessment of Petition No 324 / XIII / 2. a (Octávio Mateus et al.) — They request the creation of legislation with a view to banning the hunt of the fox, along with the Bills Nos 538 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — prohibits hunting for foxes and frogs and excludes these species from the List of Cinderella Species, making the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August, 982 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Prevents fox hunting using paulada and t-shirts, 983 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Remove the fox and raspberry from the list of species subject to kinetic exploitation and 996 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — prohibits fox and frog hunting and removes these species from the list of kinetic species, in general. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring the debate to a legislative initiative that seeks to exclude the fox and the frog from the list of kinetic species. In fact, as it is known, these two species have no gastronomic interest nor are they, of course, any danger to safety, public health or the ecosystems of our country. The fox is a very common canidian mammal in Portugal, existing in virtually all the continental territory. It is mainly inhabited in forests, slaughterhouses and agricultural fields, but can also be found near urban areas. Cattle, in turn, is a carnivorous mammal that lives in slaughterhouse areas and rarely in low-vegetation areas, and, like the fox, presents an undisturbed conservation status. And if it is true that the state of conservation of these two species is "not worrying", it is also true that, as other species, this fact does not justify, cannot justify, from the perspective of the Greens, their status as a kinetic species. In fact, the preservation of biodiversity and the function that species play in ecosystems has the responsibility to act upon us so that the protection statutes, even with different degrees, are not exhausted in domestic animals or endangered species. The responsibility that lies with us, with regard to the defence and appreciation of biodiversity, must also lead us to look at species that are not threatened with extinction and, above all, refuse the idea that anything that can be thrown out. We well know that often the argument of control of species populations is raised to keep the fox and the frog among the kinetic species. But this argument, in this case, does not take. And it does not collect because the proposal made by the Greens cautions this matter, since, as envisaged in the project, there is a need for population control, this control should be carried out under the supervision or determination of organs that should have as a central concern the eradication of threats to biodiversity and, from the outset, the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ). Therefore, with this Green initiative, we now have the possibility of creating an adequate protective mechanism, both for the fox and for the frog, and it does not even question what could be called the real hunt, which never for ever could mean reaching an animal for the simple pleasure of killing. Thus, with the aim of removing the fox and the frog from the list of kinetic species, The Greens present this legislative initiative, which still meets the concerns expressed in the petition, which, in fact, motivated this agenda and whose thousands of subscribers, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of it to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u360	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate shows that for the NAP there are no sectors that are untouchable and we are also witnessing here that the sensitivity of the Portuguese population in relation to animals goes far beyond the interests and activity that is called friendly of animals and nature, the « hunting baronate ». The NAP follows the petition that proposes the end of the hunt to the fox and adds the defense for the end of the use of mittens and pauladas to hunt any kind of animal. We have already given our thanks to this movement of more than 20 000 citizens with such an honorable cause. They are less and less those who believe that those who pay to slaughter animals, many raised in captivity, do so with the noble mission of preserving biodiversity and the traditions of the rural world. But there is more: most people don't even know that it is possible to hunt foxes and, when you know, gets indignant. And how many people know that foxes or rabbits can be killed by beating, beating, or by violence imposed by bites of 50 hunting dogs? We need to change this reality and today we can take that path. The law prohibits the deadly fight between animals, but it excludes hunting with mittens, a medieval and cruel practice in which dozens of dogs, stimulated for the effect and often abused by the butchers and deliberately starved to hasten the sense of hunting, fight mortally against another animal. After all, what kind of society do we want? Oh, my God! If the kinetic activity only aims at correcting the number of surplus animals and the noble mission to preserve ecosystems and whether hunters are so honest and so empathic with animals, what is the need, after all, to use agonizing methods of hunting? Oh, my God! Why is this staunch resistance, when we are talking about abandoning barbaric hunting methods, which constitute a real martyrdom for animals? Oh, my God! It's time to say, "It's enough! "to violence, brutality and disregard by other species. Citizens appeal to Members of the Assembly of the Republic who have the courage to rethink kinetic activity, based on ethics and science. Other countries have already banned fox hunting and abandoned methods of anachronistic hunting; Portugal may be next. During the intervention, an Image was designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u362	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, this afternoon, we are talking about the issue of animal welfare. We speak of two species which are not common in human nutrition, but which are listed in the list of kinetic species and, as such, are target of hunting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u364	There's a roll hunt, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u365	Thank you for the reference, Mr. This is a contradiction with the very idea of hunting, as it is understood mostly in society, and also with recent legislative amendments to ensure animal welfare. Socially, legally and politically, hunting can no longer be an exercise in slaughtering animals only for the purpose and pleasure of slaughter. The justification for its classification as kinetic species has been that of controlling the animal population. It is common to argue that these two species, as predators, decrease the population of other species, but the fact is that, so far, the available scientific studies have contradictory results and do not attest to the need for slaughter of these species in the framework of predator control programmes for the protection of these other species. On the other hand, it is also unknown how changes in communities, resulting from this control of predators, affect ecological processes and patterns that give biodiversity to Mediterranean landscapes. The use of population control mechanisms presupposes several actions which have so far been omitted: from then on, the previous study of the animal population and its impact on the ecosystem, but also the monitoring of the population and those same control procedures. In addition, it is also necessary to demonstrate that predator control has a positive impact on other species, without compromising the integrity of the ecosystem as a whole, and this does not exist. This petition is therefore an opportunity for us to be able to change what is no longer politically acceptable and which will have to be in line with recent legislative amendments, but also in order to be able to propose ways to provide for population control, if necessary. Thus, the Left Block presents a proposal for the removal of foxes and crabs from the list of hunting species and ensures that, when supported by scientifically robust data, there can be control of the population of these two carnivores for the preservation of biodiversity. This mechanism will have to be implemented and monitored by the technicians of the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, with selective and non-lethal capture methods. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the legislative amendments that we have just entered in this House to ensure animal welfare, we propose these adaptations, which guarantee precisely those amendments that we have just entered. We can no longer maintain methods of hunting covered by such violence and unjustified death of animals. If it is necessary to control the population, other forms are studied and implemented. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u366	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today four initiatives, the PAN, the Greens and the Left Block, which arise following a petition to end the fox hunt. The Greens and the Block present proposals that are demagogic and irresponsible, because they want to abolish hunting for foxes and frogs but allow non-lethal catch, in the exceptional case—see! — if there is a need for population control, which, of course, would imply the need to create shelters for these animals. And then, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? The animals will reproduce indiscriminately or the Mrs. Will Members put in the State budget a sum of money to sterilize the foxes and the rabies caught? Oh, my God! I can't understand! As regards the NAP, it addresses this matter in a way that we consider to be politically and intellectually dishonest, Mr André Silva, because it conditions and formats the opinion of whom it is supposed to inform. In essence, their proposals hide the true objective they wish to achieve, which is the total ban on hunting to a wide range of species, since, if they were to be approved, they would end up hunting the fox — which is the only Member to mention — in particular, hunting the hare, rabbit and boar. Let's see why. First of all, the NAP is supposed to ban, and I quote, "the fox hunt using the paddle and the mittens", which scares, of course, any less informed person who reads the title of the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u368	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u369	Mr. Member, anyone who reads this thinks hunters are wild.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u370	Some are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u371	It is totally false that hunting is permitted to the foot-and-mouth — totally false! The stick, which is a box, is used to beat the herbs and kill by the beaters, which will assist the hunt, and not for what the PAN wants to make believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u372	He knows that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u373	The goal of the shirts is not to kill the foxes, it's to make you run.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u374	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u375	Secondly, Mr President, in fact, the NAP projects intend to ban all kinds of hunting, because they propose to ban all types of hunting with shirts, which means that the hunting and beating would be prohibited — which are also done with dogs, Mr Deputies! In the case of hare, for example, the patch consists of only two dogs, usually yellow, which are dogs that have been selected for many centuries. Now, in the case of the boar, hunting is fundamental, because the boar is a plague, so I do not understand how you intend to stop hunting the boar as well. The « cherry at the top of the cake» of the hypocrisy of these initiatives is that, in the Draft Law No 982 / XIII / 3. the, Mr. André Silva proposes to prohibit only hunting with shirts, but then submits Bill No. 983 / XIII / 3. a, that, without no one's wheels, intends to ban the hunt altogether! So, Mr. Deputy, we couldn't figure it out. Are there hunters that are better than others? Oh, my God! There is clearly a hidden agenda here. It must also be said that Mr André Silva compares the hunting of correction with a practice prohibited by law, which is the fight between animals promoted by man. This comparison is totally false, because this is not what happens, and shows total ignorance about what is nature conservation, contrary to what you want to believe. This criticism also applies to the Greens, known as the 'ecological party', because their proposals have nothing in ecological terms. The numbers submitted by the petitioners are revealing the importance of fox hunting for population control.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u376	Mrs. Deputy, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u377	I will finish, Mr. President. the same way that the Greens do not reveal anything environmentalist in their initiative, the NAP leads me to believe that the « N» is misleading, because it can be a party to people and animals but of nature will certainly not be, at least with these measures and with many others that it has presented in this House. I've already invited you guys. Members attending a hunting trip, because they would certainly understand better the importance of hunting and would not discuss demagogic issues. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u378	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I comply with the motion's petitioners for the abolition of the Rape Hunting. Today, we are discussing a number of initiatives that point to the prohibition of hunting for foxes and spiders, excluding them from the list of kinetic species. Both the fox and the frog are two species that do not have any gastronomic interest and currently have no commercial or economic value, so today they are not the subject of a specific hunt and do not present any risk of extinction. In view of this, the proposals seem to correspond only to the agenda of those who aim to ban total hunting in the most diverse ways. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that these proposals open a "Pandora's box" where they can come out not only rabies and foxes but all sorts of bugs and confusions. Otherwise, let us see: these two species are natural predators of rabbits and partridges; with the prohibition of their hunting, what disruptive factors will be introduced? Not to mention, as has already been mentioned, that the NAP, in its draft law, seeks to go further and prohibit hunting not only for the fox but also for the hare and the rabbit — that is, Mr President, it is to crawl, to try to ban hunting not only for these and other species! For the PCP, hunting is an element that is part of the rural world, insofar as its existence and its dynamisation are an element of the development of the interior and the rural world. Kinetic activity is also a complement to agricultural income and, in this sense, is a factor in combating depopulation. Those who know hunting and the rural world know that many kinetic species, such as hare and rabbit, are vulnerable either to abandoning agricultural practices or to changing such practices, particularly as regards the mass use of chemicals in water as a vehicle to feed and treat plants in intensive farms. Today, many hunters complain of difficulties in access to hunting, both because of the associated costs and even because of their shortage. However, the lack of hunting is in fact the fundamental problem, but we need to ask a few more questions. With regard to the consequences of the ban on the hunting of foxes and spiders, will it not increase the populations of foxes and raspberries, exacerbating the predation of rabbits, hares, partridges and even fir trees, among others? Will they not increase attacks on flocks, hens and other livestock, motivating illegal hunting and slaughter through poisons and other forms? Does this prohibition not call into question an instrument of the population balance of these species, with implications for habitats, for human activities, such as agriculture and livestock, and even for health and road safety issues? Hunting is a rural activity that helps to fix people and combat depopulation in the rural world, already heavily penalized, without jobs, without public services, without schools, without health centers, without courts, without mail and whipped by fires. Mrs. Members, as such, we will not follow any of these bills. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u380	To speak on this point about hunting the fox, Mr Pedro Raposo do Carmo has the floor. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u381	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills presented, which generally aim to ban the hunting of foxes and spiders, include a set of arguments and justifications that reveal a deep ignorance of the reality of our rural world. From then on, Bill No. 982 / XIII / 3. a, the NAP, resorts to misuse and incorrect use of terms. What is in force at this time, and what you have presented, and well, is the permission of the fox-hunt with sticks and shirts — one never talks in a paulada! It looks the same, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not! For a man wearing hat, don't give him a hat! [[PS laughter and applause and PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! What we stand for is the balance of the ecosystem, of which, if you do not know, man is an integral part and in which there is a need for fox and frog hunts to correct high population densities of these species. And why, Mr. Deputy? These two species no longer have predators, these species are subject to great food shortages — due to rabbit disease, as you know — these animals, without predators and without natural selection, are carriers of serious diseases, which is a matter of public health; then, while we have organised hunting, we have control and verification of standards, without deviation, and therefore a guarantee of the rural world, of animals and of nature. I want to give you some examples of the contradictions and apparent good intentions these initiatives carry. On the one hand, we are investing in projects and campaigns for the recovery of the herd population, but then they want to approve legislation that protects their predators, without restrictions. Secondly, we defend all the advantages of promoting animal welfare in the production of livestock in extension,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u382	"We defend"? Who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u383	...but then they want to allow this to be decimated by these predators. I give two more examples. A producer in the Serpa saw, with an effective of 350 sheep to be mated, only caught 6 boregos, i.e. more than 300 animals were devoured by these predators. Castro Verde, another municipality of Lower Alentejo, has the world reserve of biosphere, partly due to its large colony of fir trees, species that is in the process of extinction and which is protected, and well. Your population is declining significantly because of what? to increase these predators who consume them. More: it is estimated that in the last year, in the Alentejo region, about 150 000 animals, livestock and poultry will have been devoured by these predators. In short, the adoption of these bills would mean a strong attack on the rural world, on the men and women who live in the field, these, yes, in harmony with nature. If these initiatives were adopted, they would be a contribution to the abandonment of extensive livestock and ecological agriculture that protects the environment. Men and women in the countryside, with their agricultural activities, with their hunting organized with the support of the mittens, are an essential contribution to the conservation of natural resources and biodiversity. what the rural world needs is who supports it, adding initiatives and resources to which it already has. We need concrete support in order to value the rural and the interior world, we provide proposals without any connection to reality, without common sense and with intentions that would only have negative impacts. As the people say, «good intentions is hell full». The rural world needs sense and the future, not that they impose urban concepts that do not fit into reality. [[P.S.P., PS deputy Clara Marques Mendes and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u384	For an intervention, you now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The People-Animal-Nature Party, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party continue stubbornly trying to shape what is our ecosystem and our national biodiversity, according to its political agenda, an agenda that, in this case, has a unique and ultimate purpose, that is to end the hunt. But when initiatives are made from the apartment windows, it ends up showing what was not intended to be shown, i.e., a deep ignorance of the reality of a rural country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u386	But it also shows the true aversion that they have to everything that is not buildings and tar – everything that goes beyond the limit of urban space is negligible – revealing zero tolerance for rural spaces. These parties who claim to defend nature, the environment, animals and the green world continue to defend them, yes, but far away, far away from this world. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to get out of the buildings, from the cities, you have to go to the countryside, to the rural world, because that is the world you want to train with these initiatives. That is where you have to understand the true scope of your initiatives. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u387	Mrs. Members, you have to talk to those who live in the interior, to those who suffer directly or indirectly from the proposals they present here. The documentary that passes on television does not get you to know the rural world, you need to go where people are, listen to people, understand what they feel — people have to be the center of our decision, they have to be the center of what we do here — and there they will actually realize the real need to control the predator population, so that what has happened does not happen. There are already several examples of javales in restaurants, in gardens, in people's houses, on the beach. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u388	If we don't control predators, we take huge risks. We will have dramatic consequences, in terms of population imbalances of these species, will be affected by the health issue, the issue of road safety, the issue of habitats and will even be detrimental to human activities, such as agriculture, forest and livestock. In this case, hunting is increasingly an essential tool for managing natural populations. It is a fundamental part in the ecosystem and in the human/ nature relationship. And the existing legislation regulates the species that can and should be hunted and already includes adjustments, such as hunting periods and slaughter quantities, by imposing the venatoria calendar, where necessary. By banning hunting, these predator populations will increase unmeasuredly, thus increasing, and as we have already heard, the attacks, which are already many, to flocks and hens. In fact, the Left Block and the Green Party recognize the need for this regulation, but they ignore it on purpose. The proposals under consideration are not only a real attack on hunting but also, above all, against rural populations, against farmers and small farmers, against conservation of nature and biodiversity, against low-density territories,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u389	Sir, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u390	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, these proposals are not just against hunting, they are against rural populations, against farmers and small farmers, against conservation of nature and biodiversity, against low-density territories, finally, they are more an incentive to desertification in our territories and to impoverish the interior of the country. Mrs. Members of the PAN, the Left Block and the Green Party, for the PSD, the political agenda of a party will never be sufficient reason to condition and format our natural resources according to any ideology. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u391	For an intervention to close this debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u392	Mr President, I just signed up to intervene because I was left with the idea that probably Mr Nuno Serra and Mrs Patrícia Fonseca did not read the Green Bill, otherwise they did not talk about the correction of the population effectors, which is planned in our project, now to make it clear, in Article 3. o. We are talking about two species without any gastronomic interest, which do not represent any danger or risk to public health and safety. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, refuse the idea that everything that can move is not only an ecologicalist attitude but also a Christian-democratic attitude. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, refusing the idea of killing only for pleasure is not only an ecological attitude as it should also be a Christian-democratic attitude. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-03.u393	We have thus reached the end of this debate and of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and not at 15 p.m., as usual on Thursdays, and the agenda is filled by a debate required by the PSD under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on the quality of the response of public services. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to vote on the Rules of Procedure. To all and to all I wish the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is over. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
