ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Today, as you know, on our agenda there is the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, and the order of speeches, which varies from debate to debate, begins with the PS. So you have the floor to ask your questions, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, there are two events that, at the internal and external level, because of their strategic significance and relevance to the country, constitute undeniable references to a debate that favours national interest. I therefore call on you, Prime Minister, to pay attention to two key issues: the internal agreement on labour matters, which has been reached within the framework of social dialogue, and the negotiated agreement within the European framework on the multiannual financial framework. The first undoubtedly represents an important consensus involving the Government and the social partners, with the usual exception of the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Inter-union) which rejects, as a rule, these types of commitments. It is an agreement focused on combating precariousness and segmentation of the labour market and promoting collective bargaining. The Socialist Party welcomes this agreement and commits itself, as far as its parliamentary developments are concerned, in dialogue with the other parties, contributing to its validation and to the improvements that can still be made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important that progress like these, which consolidate the way to make work more dignified and protected, be achieved by the way of consultation rather than confrontation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Measures such as temporary limitation and the justifications for term contracts can only be positive for workers and candidates for employment. Measures to penalise companies with excessive turnover of workers, or others which regulate and limit the expiry of collective agreements or extend the most favourable treatment principle, are also positive measures for stability, which interests both families and businesses. Measures which end with the single hour bank or which establish contractual forms for termless employability of young people and long-term unemployed are positive and promising for greater safety at work. It is possible that these and other consensual measures could be even better, but it seems to us that when agreement is reached with four employers' confederations, focusing solely on positive measures for workers, we have reason to congratulate ourselves and defend these advances. To ignore these advances is to devalue important gains that represent less precariousness and work with more rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore, Prime Minister, are very proud of these further progress with which we can mark this legislature and very proud that they owe themselves to the capacities of plural and transversal dialogue of the Government in which the Socialist Party points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the second issue also conspires attention to the future of all of us and implies the development of the country in the next decade. We live, it is known, a period of great uncertainty at the international and European levels. on the international level, with threats of war, with the proliferation of unilateralisms, bilateral methods of exclusive solutions or exclusion of third parties and disrespect and indifference to rules based on international relations, such as those relating to trade. on the European level, the reforms are delayed and we are faced with weaknesses, particularly those resulting from the incapacity and divisions that the European Union reveals, in cases such as those of reaction and defence, or lack of them, following the trade decisions of the United States of America and also following the Iranian issue. The clouds on the future of European cohesion are not, in our view, negligible. From now on, for example: what will the European Commission result from the forthcoming European elections and what will be the consequences? What results are attainable in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework, or which can be considered satisfactory, when, in interlocuting countries, until recently stable and decisive, extremisms, nationalisms and the outbreaks of instability are intensified? Oh, my God! What does the European Union envisage when authoritarian populism is today the third ideological force in the European Union? Oh, my God! At the same time, we are witnessing a slowdown in general European economies. Although inserted in these trends, Portugal will have clearly more than 2 % growth, which was achieved only in this century in 2007 and last year. It is therefore in this multiple context, Mr Prime Minister, that we have begun negotiating the multiannual financial framework. of the Commission's initial proposals, we have already evolved quite and in a favourable way, but still insufficient, although in the case of cohesion, we are at this negotiating stage the fifth country receiving more money and with a cut below the average cut in cohesion policy money. with regard to the CAP (common agricultural policy) and the outermost regions, we must also do more. In all cases, however, increasing the rates of national co-financing will certainly arise important implementation difficulties in the future. The question, therefore, is always to know the best way to defend ourselves and to safeguard our interests. The opposition says that the government is talking to each other and that it should talk to others. It is therefore good for the government to clarify whether we should or are just talking to one or to one or to all, but especially to some. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u3	It is important to know how we can overcome the most negative initial prospects—successfully so far—how we have progressed and how and in what areas this may or must continue to happen. It is also important to know whether, in the atypical European political context in which we live, in which national conflicting interests are involved, the Portuguese political parties, with influence on the partisan formations of other countries, from extreme right to extreme left, are able to shade with results, in the defense of the national interest in the presence. In these cases, it is not enough just to speak and lament, to speak and to accuse, but always and only for internal purposes, in the country itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD and CDS are, as always, very dissatisfied with the proposals that are still on the negotiating table. So do we, though now much less. But in the case of PSD and CDS - it seems to me that, paraphrasing Junqueiro, living both of the same skeptical utilitarianism, like two halves of zero, whatever the final outcome of the negotiation will always be, for them, insufficient. When, for example, PSD and CDS ask for a loud voice with the European Union, something our Prime Minister has, perhaps it is time to find out if the voices of these parties, which had just arrived there not to help us,... [[PSD protests.]] ...now, saying you want to help, there they come, in what tone and with what results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that Portugal needs social peace to progress. Portugal needs to grow and become more competitive. To that end, European support for the next decade is crucial. These are works that are not exhausted, and in which we are not exhausted, and for which we must all be summoned, bringing more benefits to those who work and more confidence to those who invest. Good job, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u4	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u5	Mr President, Mr César, I shall begin with the first question on labour law. This is the first conciliation agreement, in many years, which halts the trend towards deregulation of work and the promotion of precariousness, on the contrary, focuses on combating precariousness and the dynamisation of collective bargaining. The existence of an agreement is, in itself, good, because it means the proper functioning of social consultation as an important pillar of our democratic state. It is important, because an agreement made today limits the possibility of withdrawal tomorrow. It is good because in view of the international recommendations of the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Union, for us to be in the opposite direction, it is important to have a strong and consolidated national position with the social partners. But it is, above all, good, because this agreement, signed by all employers' confederations, means a paradigm shift in the view of employers' associations in relation to the labour market, is the understanding that combating precariousness is not only a fight for dignity and the rights of those who work, it is also an essential condition for the sustainable improvement of the productivity of each company. That is why this agreement is very important. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This agreement therefore reinforces the conditions of the administration of work, in particular the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ). This agreement dynamizes collective bargaining, putting an end to the Government Programme, the individual hour bank or the group hour bank, consisting of individual bargaining, thereby strengthening collective bargaining and collective protection of workers. More: while limiting the conditions for the expiry of the collective contract, it provides that, in the event of expiry, they automatically transfer to the individual contract of work materials previously regulated in the collective contract, such as parental rights or those relating to workers students, thereby perpetuating the rights already acquired in the collective contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is above all in the fight against precariousness and segmentation of the labour market that this agreement is taking very positive steps in the strict implementation of the Government programme. First, it reduces the grounds for the use of a term contract. They are no longer grounds for recourse to a contract in the long run either to seek the first job or to be long-term unemployed. Neither long-term unemployment nor a young person seeking the first job must, by definition, be sentenced to a long-term contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the maximum time of the contract is reduced: if it is the right term it will reduce from 3 to 2 years and if it is the uncertain term it will reduce from 6 to 4 years, i.e. the period of precariousness is reduced. But most important for this aspect is to ensure that, in all renewals, one can never exceed the deadline of the first term contract, which means that if the first term contract is 6 months, all renewals may not go beyond 6 months, i.e. the term contract may not last more than 1 year. This is a very strong reduction in the time of precariousness. Finally, an important disincentive is approved in the Government Programme for companies using precarious work, providing for the creation of a specific rate for those who abuse turnover in relation to their frameworks. Then there will be an increased rate which will revert to the social security safes. It is therefore a good agreement which fulfils the Government's programme, which dynamizes collective bargaining, which combats precariousness and segmentation of the labour market. We are therefore pleased with the agreement that was possible. We cannot say the same about the negotiation of Community funds. We were well aware that the starting point was difficult: the UK exit takes away EUR 70 billion net of contribution; there are new policies to be financed in the area of security, defence and migration. It was therefore a difficult negotiating framework. We also knew that, in the past, compared the funds obtained in the new frameworks with those of the previous tables at current prices and not, as the Commission did this year, at constant prices. We also know that, if we compare in current terms, this year we did not have a decrease but an increase of 8 % compared to the previous table, where there had been an increase of only 3 %. But if we compare in constant terms, we find that this year there is indeed a 7 % reduction in cohesion policy, which is, however, less than the 11 % reduction we had in the previous framework. We know all this, but we also know that evolution has been positive. Commissioner Carlos Moedas has already said this: in the strict application of the original form, we would have had a 30% reduction in cohesion funds. With regard to the first document submitted by the Commission, we would have had a 15 % reduction in cohesion policy, but thanks to the constructive work carried out over these weeks with the Commission, the reduction is less than the average of 10 % and is now 7%. Anyway, even though Portugal is 5. the country which, per capita, receives the most — far above Spain, Italy and other countries in the south – is the truth that we have reason not to be satisfied and we should therefore continue the work we have been doing over the last few weeks over the coming weeks and months. There is a particularly serious aspect in which we must pay attention and which has to do with the level of co-financing. It has been mentioned little, but the fact is that in the Commission's proposal in cohesion regions the Community financing rate is lower from 85 % to 70 %; in the case of Algarve, the transition region, the rate is lower from 80 % to 55 % and, in the case of the Lisbon region and the Tejo Valley, the Community financing rate is lower from 50 % to 40 %. This means a lot more weight on our State budget. The second aspect to be highlighted is that we must ensure the principle of the transversality of the objective of convergence. This objective should not only be in the Structural Funds, but should also be associated with new funds, such as science, defence and migration. We therefore need to introduce a convergence dimension which ensures that, in both science and other areas, countries like Portugal can be struck on an equal footing with the most developed countries. It is also necessary to ensure that these funds do not exacerbate divergence and that they can contribute to the convergence of European economies. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of taking into account the new instrument for financing structural reforms so as to increase Portugal's financing capacity, because it is absolutely unacceptable the amount indicated by the Commission, of just over EUR 200 million, for financing this heading. In conclusion, with regard to the common agricultural policy, it is true that in all the two pillars we have increased in the first and we have a strong cut in the second, which is, in average terms, a reduction of between 450 and 500 million euros. It is also true that, from the farmers' point of view, there is no penalty, on the contrary, farmers receive more than 280 million euros than in the previous framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u6	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u7	I shall now conclude, Mr President. However, this increase is made at the expense of greater participation of the national State budget, which will have to invest more EUR 763 million than at present. That is, even though farmers have some increase, the country will have to pay a lot more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u8	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u9	... receiving much less than you now receive from the European Union. That is why, despite the unfavourable global context and the difficulty we know there is between the countries that want to give less and the cohesion countries that have cuts of more than 24 % in their appropriations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u10	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u11	... we must continue, in the coming weeks, to do the work we have done so far, so that, as we have passed from 30% to 15% and from 15% to 7%, we will maximize the funding opportunities of our investment on the basis of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u12	To put questions on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, I welcome you and all members of your Government and would like to begin by making a reference to your words and to those of the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, Carlos César, who have deliberately forgotten and with the help of Junqueiro War, that there was an agreement between the PSD, the Socialist Party and the Government regarding the Community funds. We have done so, Mr Prime Minister, not in the name of improvements to the PSD, to the PS or to the Government, we have done so on behalf of Portugal,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u14	... because we had the notion that the union of efforts was very important for the funds to be properly distributed. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I shall begin with the topic of birth which, I would say, is the biggest problem in the country because of the incidences it has in almost all areas of governance, particularly in the area of pensions, emigration itself, the economy and so on. This Monday, by the President of the PSD, Dr. Rui Rio, presented a framework for measures on this subject, drawn up by the National Strategic Council of the Party. The name given to the document was even A Policy for Children. of these measures, I wanted to mention some, the first of which is the payment of a subsidy of 428, 90 € to all pregnant women in the seventh month of pregnancy. The second measure is that, until 18 years old, each child receives 10 722, 50 €, and during the first 6 years of life, the annual value will be 857 €, suffering a reduction from 6 years to 428 €. We have also tabled other measures, Mr Prime Minister, namely the extension of maternity or paternity leave to 26 weeks or the free of charge of public daycare workers and children from 6 months. Mr Prime Minister, this is just a few examples of a much greater set of measures presented in this work, which, of course, are all open. Obviously, these are measures that have to be taken over time, not in a year or in two, but, paying attention to their own nature, require broad consensus, due to the change of governments. Mr Prime Minister, there has been a complete vacuum on the part of the Government in these areas since it has not submitted any measures. I ask you, then, what is your opinion on what was announced by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u16	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, firstly I congratulate you on giving up the 'cases' policy and returning to the people's policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u17	The "cases" are yours! You create the "cases"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u18	And if there are more cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u19	As you will know, I have identified the demographic issue as one of the major strategic challenges facing the country. And I say'strategic challenge', because it is related to birth policy but it is certainly also linked to management of migration flows that is absolutely essential for us to reverse the demographic trend in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the beginning of this government, we have adopted with our parliamentary partners a set of important measures to support early childhood: the amendment of family allowance ; the generalization of preschool to all 3-year-olds ; the introduction of free school textbooks throughout 1. the cycle; the change in the criterion of deduction, at IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) for each child, equalizing the children of families with low incomes to those of families with high incomes, because children cannot have a different treatment depending on the income of their parents. Therefore, the policy of supporting children has been a constant in this government and will continue to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, even recently, I have proposed to the social partners a great social agreement on the reconciliation between family life and working life, because there is the key for us to have better conditions and each family to have the children we want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, Mr Deputy, in the Government Programme, there are a set of measures that are still to be implemented and which have to be through desirable agreement in social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u20	Say there any more things!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u21	... from the extension of the term of parental leave to the extension of parental rights, including support for family members, grandparents and grandparents, so that we can have better policies to support children. But we do not ignore the following: there is no sustainable birth without a determined struggle against precariousness at work and without active policies for access to housing. Only then will the new generations gain the necessary confidence in their future and hope in their country, so that they can have the ambition to be a family and to have the daughters and children who understand well. We all have a duty to create good conditions for it to be so. As far as the proposals now presented are concerned, they are certainly good contributions to the debate. We shall examine them with the greatest interest and, when they are properly formalised, we shall pronounce-CL-on them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u22	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u23	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say firstly that I do not like the term 'cases'. What I said here or, better, what leads me to talk about certain things has its origin in the Government of V.A.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u25	That is why I speak about them, because that is my obligation, as leader of the main opposition party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u26	Ah! He is the leader of the main opposition party! Open... [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u27	When Mr Prime Minister gives the name 'cases' to these situations, what you want is that they are reduced and that they are not spoken about. What Mr. Prime Minister wants is not to speak in such situations,... [[PSD applause.]] ...but I will continue to speak, Mr. Prime Minister, hoping, however, that there is no reason for that. Mr. Prime Minister, your answer, finally, is an answer that talks about your things and not about the questions I have asked you specifically, which is normal in you. There is never, of course, direct answers, but indirectly, it is open to discussion and, of course, I am shocked to know of that position. Mr. Prime Minister, teachers! The strategy of this government is known from the outset to satisfy everyone at all times. in this sense, within the framework of the State Budget Act, a resolution was adopted that gives the total count of the time of service frozen as right for the purpose of pay developments: it is 9 years, 4 months and 2 days. The Ministry of Education has said everything and its opposite over the past few months. He said yes, he said no, he said that maybe, and he was saving time, he managed to get time, which, at this point, is over. Now I told the unions, which are 23 — it is good that we all reflect on this — that the proposal is 2 years, 9 months and 18 days of service, or nothing! This is the proposal of the Minister for Education! Mr Prime Minister, is this the first professional class to be the target of the slowing down of the European economy? Is it a government warning to the Left Block and the PCP? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u29	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, Article 19. that of the State Budget Act for 2018 determines that a negotiation process is opened with a view to defining a deadline and a way of achieving the payment expression of service time, taking into account the sustainability and compatibility with the available resources. It should be recalled that what is contained in the Government Programme and that it was adopted for all State servants and also for teachers was the principle of defrosting careers. I mean, where the timer had stopped, he was reset, counting. Therefore, teachers' careers are also being frozen. this year, 45 324 teachers will see their defrosted careers, which implies an increase in expenditure of EUR 90 million. By next year, another 12,935 will have their careers frozen, which means an increase in expenditure of EUR 80 million. By 2020, 23 131 will also have their defrosted careers, which means an increase of more than 24 million euros. And so on. Therefore, it is false that teachers are an exception, their careers will be frozen, such as that of all other government officials. It turns out that, in accordance with what was determined by the Assembly of the Republic in the State Budget Act, the Government initiated a negotiation process in which it did not present a proposal now: the Government submitted a proposal to the different trade unions to be considered, of unaccounted service time, 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, which meant an increase of EUR 170 million above what was already agreed. This proposal was presented in March in a spirit of good faith negotiation in which each party submits its proposal. The government presented its own and what it found by the unions was a negotiating strategy, certainly legitimate, but where we were told: 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, and not less than 1 hour! The meetings took place and the answer was always the same: 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, and not less than 1 hour! The impact of time counting, not since 2005 but since 2011, would be 600 million euros. As is stated in the State budget, the agreement that the Government can make must be based on availability and there is no willingness to make an agreement on the basis of the intransigent position presented by the unions! What we found yesterday is that, since the proposal submitted by the Government to date, there have been no developments and, with no developments, there is no more negotiation unless there is availability for development and then we will negotiate there. But, as you must understand, negotiation involves a constructive action by all. We did the part that competes with us, we don't have to teach others what to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u30	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, what counts is that, within the framework of the State budget, a resolution has been adopted that gives the total count of frozen service time as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u33	The only thing that remained to be negotiated was the deadline for granting these funds. It was the only thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u34	Word given...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u35	Mr. Prime Minister promised, but he didn't do it again. Mr Prime Minister, let us talk about the evidence of measurement—and this should be a great concern for all of us and, above all, for the Portuguese parents. The results of the measurement tests in basic education have, of course, to leave us deeply concerned. Mr Prime Minister, let us see the portrait of students up to 14 years old: 41% do not know how to place Portugal on the European map; there are great difficulties in interpreting texts; writing full of spelling and grammar errors; large blocks at the level of calculation; inability to solve problems with fractions. Mr. Prime Minister, it is regrettable that this happens! And I'm giving these examples that are deeply outraged by what's going on in our public school. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I am already imagining the answer that will give us, which is to invoke the years of the troika and the bad politics of previous governments in education, and I ask you not to speak back, to start talking forward, because it is time! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u36	I ask you, Prime Minister, what you have to say to the parents of these children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u37	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u38	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, first of all, we promise and fulfill what we have said to the teachers. We said we'd take off and take off. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we assumed before the Assembly of the Republic, which was what we were going to negotiate, we did - we put forward a constructive and good faith proposal and, before the good faith and the constructive position of the government, we had intransigence. As for intransigence, we can't do anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to tell you that we have fulfilled this with the teachers and, moreover, we have fulfilled this with regard to the extraordinary linkage of teachers who have been in a precarious situation for years and years. There were 3,500 teachers last year and they're going to be 3,500 this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we also met the educators, harmonizing their school calendar with the school calendar of 1. the cycle. As we also did with those who were linked, repositioning them in the career, so that they do not enter the zero stake but take into account the time they spent during the years of service in our schools. Yes, we met the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u39	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u40	I say more: I see with satisfaction that, after saying that the proofs of measurement were a joke, now at last they recognize that they are a good element of evaluation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: with humility, you can now recognize that, if there are inadequacies, although we detect them now in the measurement tests, when the children are still in time to recover and learn what they have not yet learned, rather than wait for the final exam to simply be excluded from the elimination, which was the evaluation model that VV. Ex. They were defending. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u41	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, I find it fantastic to have read some of the results of these assessment tests, which were already well known to you, and Mr Prime Minister has transformed these regrettable results into a success of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u43	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u44	That's what you Exa did! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, so we don't solve these problems. And these are the real problems that concern Portuguese people, who care about the parents of children attending schools. When Mr. Prime Minister comes here to tell us that we have met with the teachers, I congratulate him, but for me, for us, for this bench, what is important is to comply with the students. That must be the primary objective. What matters is to carry out a proper teaching for students, is to make this data that I read to you not repeat, that these numbers do not repeat. [[PS laughter.]] If the question I asked you, Prime Minister, comes to tell me that your policy has been a success, the question must be repeated: why are these results? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u45	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u46	Mr President, honourable Member, I feel a bit embarrassed because it seems that the honourable Member does not know an essential fact: it is that these are even proofs of measurement carried out in 2016. They refer to cases of learning of children in previous years, not in the years in which this government has exercised functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u47	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u48	Mr. President, Prime Minister, I know, but what does that solve? Oh, my God! [[PS laughter.]] Mr. Prime Minister, what does this resolve about these children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u50	What does this resolve with regard to the parents of these children? Oh, my God! Parents put their children in the confident public school that their children will be taught and that is not happening, Prime Minister, and from there these results! I shall finish my speech, because the time I have at my disposal is coming to an end, saying that I deeply regret that your attitude towards solving these problems is purely in the political attack, and not more than that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u52	Mr President, Mr President, I am asked by the honourable Member for the proof of measurement, saying that they are the demonstration of the bad policies of this government. The honourable Member was ignoring — and therefore lead in his proof of measurement for not knowing — that they were proof of 2016! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They were 2016 tests!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u53	Are you happy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u54	That is why, if these evidences show the political error, it is the political error of your government and not the policies of this government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u55	Are you happy, Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u56	Now, with this information—which, fortunately, we have obtained in good time and not at a time when children are faced with proof of elimination— we can act in such a way as to combat school failure so that these children can complete their educational course successfully and not be doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u57	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u58	What we want are children who are successful and not doomed to failure. And what this demonstrates is the failure of your policies and not the failure of the policies of a government that was not in office when these trials took place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u59	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u60	Mr. President, in 1990, with the votes of the PSD and the CDS, parties that opposed the creation of the National Health Service from the first hour, the Government of Cavaco Silva tried to adjust accounts with the SNS and created a Health Bases Act, which establishes the private sector as a competitor of the public sector and further places the State to promote the private sector of health. Here began the assault on the National Health Service, with the consequences that are in sight of everyone, and they can well shed crocodile tears but this was, and is, the right-hand project for the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u61	Talk to your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u62	Mr Prime Minister, when the current government took possession of it, I thought that, in the face of the new circumstances, the time had come to achieve this old objective. « I spoke with the Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes, and with Prime Minister Antonio Costa himself, who showed me the best sympathy for the idea, all of whom were surprised that the PS did not revoke the Law when it had an absolute majority». These words are from António Arnault, who made with João Semedo a project for a new law of health bases that allows to recover the National Health Service, modernize it, make it universal and free and dignify its professionals. I will quote again, António Arnault : « That is why we give our country, our respective parties and the Assembly of the Republic, in the hope that they will make it, after widely discussed and improved, the great law of bases of the National Health Service ». The Block accepted this challenge and for six months we publicly discussed the project with users and all health professions. on June 22, the bill will be discussed here. We do so with the opening up of all other parties to bring their proposals as well. I would like to ask you whether the Government is available to participate in this work for the repeal of the law on the right and to comply, in this legislature and with the left, with the historical obligation to defend the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, the Government is not only available as it has already appointed a working group chaired by Dr Maria de Belém Roseira, whose mandate is to evaluate and promote the debate on the Health Bases Act and to present a final report in September of this year. That's the timetable we have and we're going to fulfill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u65	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are open to every debate and we think that the discussion in the specialty can enrich you very much. But the worst thing could be done was to have a working group whose own operating time limits limit the possibility of having a new health-based law in this legislature. That is why it is so important, on the next day 22, before the end of this Legislative Session, that we do the work in general, so that then there is all the discussion in the specialty, necessary to a new law of health bases. The National Health Service was created by António Arnaut to ensure that health is for everyone and not a few business. And that is our commitment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about another subject already under discussion. The Assembly of the Republic recommended to the Government that teachers be counted on for the purpose of career progression and, more than on the subject of recommendation, as Mr Prime Minister himself acknowledged, the State budget in Article 19. the, already obliged the government to negotiate with the unions on how to recover this time of service from the teachers. That is why we are surprised by the unpublished blackmail of the Minister of Education, who said something like: either the unions accept the government proposal, or the teachers will not recover any time of service from the years of freezing. This is very serious and it is good for the Prime Minister to put the Government back on a regular basis with Parliament and the partners. We heard him say at the Congress of the Socialist Party that he wanted to resume the « passion for education» by Antonio Guterres. Well, Prime Minister, it is necessary to go beyond the lock and remember that António Guterres conducted a negotiation that allowed him to count all the time of service and to defuse careers phased all the time, in fact, the same as the unions today propose. That is why it is unusual to see the Minister of Education now shut the doors to negotiation, when what is on the table is nothing less than a proposal in these terms, in which the unions even say that recovery can go beyond this legislation. What is at stake is the dignity of the career of these teachers and it is necessary to understand what the government wants to do. Songs and ultimatums? Oh, my God! Is this a way of negotiating, loyal and responsible? To ignore both trade union negotiations and Parliament's decisions? Where the government talks about negotiation, the country currently sees only pre-eminence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u69	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, we will not enter a competition on the paternity of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u70	It's António Arnaut!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u71	He is indisputably the former Minister of Social Affairs António Arnaut, in a Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I also think that we all had an invitation to tender. The honourable Member knows the timetable we have defined: the working group presents the report in September. If you want to present your bill in June and do not wait for September, you have the freedom to do so. We will keep our calendar and present what we have to present in September, not June. As for the question of teachers, there is no prepotence or blackmail. I would like to recall the following: our commitment was to defreeze careers in the Public Administration. And the defrosting of careers meant this very simple thing: where the timer had been stopped, it was responsive to tell—and so it is for all state servers. The sound was created that there would be no thawing for teachers. This is a false idea. Besides, as you know, only this year, the careers of 45,000 teachers will be frozen. This means an increase in expenditure by EUR 90 million with thawings. And over the next few years, they will continue to freeze with the corresponding increase in expenditure. During the budgetary debate, it was understood that a negotiation process should be opened and what the State Budget Act clearly states is that there must be a negotiation process to define the deadline and how time of service should be achieved, taking into account the sustainability and compatibility with the available resources. The union proposal, which never evolved, already discounting the years 2005 to 2007, and only counting the years 2011 to 2017, had an impact of 600 million euros. This is not comportable and therefore there are no conditions for achieving it. The Government, in accordance with the rule of the State Budget and its negotiating good faith, submitted a proposal in March which provided for the counting of teachers'time in 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, which meant more than EUR 170 million, only in 2019. In the light of the Government's proposal, the answer we had, between March and yesterday, was always the same: 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, and not less than 1 hour! During the months of March, April, May and June, this was always the answer we had. And what the government said—and what is normal, it is no blackmail— was the following: « We put forward a proposal and you remain in an intransigent position, claiming an amount that is absolutely incompatible with the conditions of our public finances and incompatible with equal treatment with the other state professionals. Therefore, when there is nothing new to say, there is nothing to continue in the negotiation». Or does the honourable Member think that the burden of tabling proposals is only one of the parties and that this party is the government? [[BE's protests.]] That's not how I see a negotiation. But this isn't blackmail. We proposed something to have an agreement. If there's no agreement, there's nothing we can do. There's no counter proposal to move forward. This is simply the situation in which we find ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u72	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u73	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when we want to solve a problem, we really need to have the will to resolve and not find excuses not to do so. in the same way that creating a working group to develop a new law of health bases that only starts to work in September is to prevent this new law of health bases from being made in this legislature...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u74	It ends in September!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u75	... Nor can it be said that the Minister of Education, when he closes the negotiations, when he announces the conclusion of the negotiations and then says that he remains without anything, is fulfilling anything he has said, because, in fact, even the Socialist Party has approved here, in Parliament, the full counting of the teachers' time of service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u76	Commitments are to be fulfilled. The Minister of Education has to comply, he has to find a solution. If you will, surely the solution is in sight. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question on another matter. The Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Government released in March 2017 the report of the working group to combat precariousness. It was a work that required effort, ability to converge and, for our part, we present here the project that implements the content of this agreement in its exact terms. Mr. Prime Minister can certainly understand the surprise of the Left Block by knowing the government's proposal for social consultation. We negotiated the measures and, after the agreement was concluded, the government unilaterally changed it to make a proposal to the patronage that nullifies much of the effects of the changes negotiated to combat precariousness. I have heard him say that the Portuguese patronage has already surrendered to the fight against precariousness, but I think it is clearly exaggerated news. Why has the Government never left the intention to extend the experimental period, contradicting the limitations to future contracts? Why did you prefer to take only the employers and UGT to maintain the possibility of hourly bank without collective hiring? What is the use of the numerous exceptions to the turnover rate agreed upon? Mário Centeno predicted that the measure would generate EUR 350 million in one year. With so much exception, how much do the government think the measure is worth now? One last question, Prime Minister, because, as you know, we take seriously the fight against precariousness in both private and public. Public companies had until 31 May to integrate the precariouss and the precariouss. Was that done? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u77	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u78	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I thank you for your questions. Firstly, the working group does not start working in September, concludes its work in September, presents the report in September. So, it doesn't start, it's over, which means we're already working. The working group is doing its job and will present it in September. at that time, we will present the proposals that we have to submit and at all times, unless the legislation is shortened, to conclude in this legislature the work that we have proposed to do. Secondly, the Minister of Education and the Government always act in good faith with everyone and also, in particular, with the unions and with the teachers' unions. I do not forget how, for two years, we have also seen the CDS bench protesting systematically because there are no protests by Mário Nogueira against the current government. And, over these two years, there have been many problems that have been solved, from the point of view of the linkage and the value of the career of who was integrated in the tables. And we were also willing to do this negotiation. It was in this negotiating framework that, already providing for an effort of EUR 90 million, we proposed an account of the service time of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days, which represented an additional charge of EUR 170 million and which was presented to the unions in March. Mr Member, I do not teach anyone how to negotiate, but you will apologize, the government sat at the table, put forward a proposal, which was a constructive proposal, which went beyond what is in the Government Programme, and what we found on the other side was a total intransigence and a total lack of movement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u79	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u80	And so it was in March, so it was in April, so it was in May and so it was until yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u81	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u82	So, in view of this, what does the government want to do? [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We're going up, we're going up, we're going up, until we get to 9 years, 4 months and 2 days? Oh, my God! That is not to negotiate, that is to accept a proposal that we are not in a position to accept, because we have no more than EUR 600 million per year for this expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, on the issue of precariousness, there is a confusion that cannot be done. There is no confusion between the experimental period and the term contract. The term contract is, by nature, a precarious contract, the experimental period is a phase of a contract without termination, i.e. a non-precarious contract, which already existed, where we also integrated the period of internship, which so far did not count and which has begun to count, which creates better conditions for employability, because it gives confidence to all parties, in particular those employed, that there are conditions to use without being completed, with a final contract and not with a precarious contract, as it was done. It is that, as you know, and very well, much of the long-term contracts were false contracts in the long term, so that the employer would be careful against the possible non-adaptation of the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u83	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u84	I shall now conclude, Mr President. There will be an experimental period, which also incorporates the internship period, only reinforces the guarantees that there will be more employment, more stable employment, never-ending contracts. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u85	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u86	Mr President, if I may, I would just like to answer a very important question put by Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u87	It must be very brief, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u88	Our aim in terms of turnover is not to collect revenue, it is to create a disincentive for employers to abuse with respect to hiring. That's the goal, and that's what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u89	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs Cristian Assumption to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u90	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me just tell you that it was a pleasure to hear you talk about your birth and I greet the Democratic Social Party by bringing this issue here and by listening to Mr Prime Minister — now in Prime Minister's skin, one week ago, in the Secretary-General's Socialist Party's skin — about the issue of birth as a very important subject, even referring in particular to some measures which the CDS has already had the opportunity to present here, in this House, and which have been plunged by the Socialist Party, such as those concerning the rights of grandparents. I was hopeful that these measures could be adopted this time and therefore I would like to welcome you to the debate on this subject. I hope that Mr. Prime Minister can also follow us, CDS, on other matters that are dear to us. I therefore bring you here the subject of agriculture and I will ask you a very clear and precise set of questions on this subject. in our current programme of European Agricultural Funds, the PDR 2020, there are 16 000 projects stopped and there are about 1, 3 billion euros waiting to pay to farmers. So farmers are waiting for that money. My first question is: will the Prime Minister, or will he not, strengthen the current programme? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current framework has been negotiated in a timely manner and we are fulfilling it. We cannot reinforce it or decrease it, we must comply! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u93	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u94	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in this case you did not lead to the test, even lead to the examination. It is that the current Community framework can be strengthened. Moreover, the current Community framework was the subject of a request for reinforcement by the Portuguese Government... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u95	... and when you started your duties there was a request to strengthen national participation of 15 % for 20 %, and your Government withdrew that request. Question : Will you, or will you not, reinforce? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u96	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u97	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, knows the proposal that the Government has put forward, and that it is negotiating in Brussels, regarding the reprogramming of the financial framework as a whole! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u98	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u99	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have therefore no reinforcement thought at this time nor any request for increased national participation, which means that Mário Centeno is probably taking you forward. We will continue to have projects and farmers waiting for their money. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u100	On the framework currently under negotiation in Brussels, a 15 % cut in the so-called'second pillar' of the common agricultural policy ( CAP) is announced, which is not the same for all countries, corresponding to 50 % of the funds we have received in Portugal. Therefore, it is important and very different a cut of 15 % by 50 % of the money or 20 % of the money, which is the European Union average. My question, Prime Minister, is the following: how do you intend to reverse this scenario, which is absolutely negative for our country, for the modernization and sophistication of agriculture? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u101	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that when I answered the questions put by the Socialist Party on Community funds, I have just mentioned this issue of agricultural policy. We have a slight reinforcement in the first pillar, in direct aid, and a significant cut of about 600 million euros, in the second pillar. On average, we have a cut of between EUR 450 million and EUR 500 million, and therefore we have sought to continue to work with the Commission and the other Council partners in order to achieve a better outcome. This week, Mr Minister for Agriculture has already had a meeting with Commissioner Phil Hogan — I myself will speak to him next Friday, when he comes to Portugal on a visit to the National Agriculture Fair in Santarém — and we have kept in touch. I know that the current mechanism foresees the possibility of transferring funds from the first to the second pillar and, therefore, we could partially compensate the cut in the second pillar—which has to do with rural development—with what we increase transfers in the first pillar, but we believe that there are other mechanisms and that we should continue this negotiation as we have been doing so far. This is because, as I have just said, the Commission's current proposal, which provides for an increase of EUR 280 million in all the funds allocated to farmers, would require an increase in national participation by more than EUR 763 million, which is a very significant effort for the national budget, and therefore we want to achieve a better agreement with the European Commission. It's a job we're going to continue. Together with our work on cohesion policy, we will also develop this work on the second pillar of the CAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u103	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u104	Mr President, Prime Minister, precisely in the last negotiation of the current financial framework, Portugal improved its relative position on either the first pillar or the second pillar and still had an additional financial envelope of EUR 500 million without national participation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u105	So, Prime Minister, what I wanted and which, I believe, we are all in a position to demand that the Government be the following: do not accept any cuts in the CAP envelope, do not accept any cuts in Portuguese agriculture. But, Prime Minister, it is not only the part of agriculture that concerns me, but also an issue that has to do with the evolution of our economy. And once again, I bring you absolutely objective data. When we look at world rankings—where international investors are guided, moreover, when they want to invest in some country—we see that Portugal's position has fallen into many of these indicators. at the World Economic Forum, in 2015 we were in position 36 and in 2017 we were in position 46, i.e. we went down 10 positions! at the Doing Business, World Bank, we were in position 25 and passed to 29. But if we go to the details of the indicators, we will see that, for example, in access to credit, we have moved from heading 89 to heading 105 — see! — and in the indicator « start business» — and we like to say that we are in favour of start-ups and start-ups of new companies — we have moved from heading 10 to heading 48. So we fell 38 positions. Mr. Prime Minister, what do you have to say about this data? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u106	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I can do, with regard to the rankings, is to confront them with reality. Private investment has increased, foreign direct investment has increased, job creation has increased, the growth of the economy has increased since accession to the euro, we have had the lowest deficit of all and, therefore, I tell you, the results contrast with their rankings. As for the comparison of negotiations, I can tell you this: if we compare the last negotiation, that of the previous framework, with that of the current framework, we are discussing a 7 % reduction in cohesion policy, when we have already had an 11 % reduction in that policy, that at constant prices; at current prices, we are discussing an 8 % increase, when we first had a 3 % increase; for repositioning, today we have a higher per cent transfer than we had in the previous table. The problem is not that of relative evolution, the problem is in absolute terms. We have been improving this negotiation, but we are not yet satisfied and we must continue to negotiate in the coming weeks, both to improve our outcome in cohesion policy and in relation to the CAP, as we have done over the past few weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u108	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u109	Mr President, Prime Minister, the fact is that the data are objective, as are the numbers on the economic growth of other countries. It is to be said that Portugal has grown — it is true! — but much less than the OECD average, as well as much less than the European Union average. Countries like Latvia, Poland, Slovenia, Hungary, Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Austria, Sweden, Netherlands, Finland, Spain, Greece, Germany and France all grew more than Portugal in 2017! These are the objective data that concern us, because we have to grow even more than others, not to mention our neighbours of Spain or Ireland, who are always with much more positive numbers than the Portuguese numbers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u110	Mr. Prime Minister, I cannot fail to touch on other very relevant matters. You have burned the credibility of your government in two essential areas: health and education. in health, we continue with the constant failures of patients and professionals, with the increasing waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, with services to close — to close! — lack of nurses and doctors, with exhausted professionals with extra hours and with lack of qualified colleagues to share the work with. in education, your government has failed with students, parents and teachers. The Minister who stated, during the discussion of the State budget, that he was going to "defend radically the teachers" is the same minister who has now not been able to dialogue and find a solution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u112	...is the same thing that closed the door to any dialogue, endangering national examinations of access to higher education. Mr. Prime Minister, what are you going to do now? Are you going to abandon the teachers and leave the students at risk, or are you going to pass over the Minister and find another negotiator? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u113	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u114	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, objective data: last year Portugal grew above the European average and when you were government we grew below the European average. They're objective data! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question posed by the teachers, I have already had the opportunity to respond to all the benches, but I will repeat once again: the government, like its duty, negotiates with all trade unions—including with FENPROF, which VV. They were still diabolical one year ago — in good faith and in a constructive way. So in a negotiation, what we do is present a proposal. And we introduced it, not only for thawing, but also for counting an important part of the time that has not been accounted for before. It wasn't just repositioning the timer, it was recovering lost time while the timer was stopped. In view of this, the answer we had was that of intransigence, and this breaks the dialogue, because for dialogue it is necessary for you to ask and I answer or vice versa. But when I propose and on the side there is no answer this ceases to be a dialogue and becomes a monologue. The position of this government has always been, with all the professional sectors and in particular with the teachers, of complete openness to negotiation. The repetition of our proposal without any counter proposal, that is not negotiation, that is to continue a monologue and makes no sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u115	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u116	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can then conclude that the government, acting in good faith, maintains at least the proposal of the two years. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is obvious! We have tabled a negotiating proposal on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u119	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u120	Mr President, Prime Minister, that is not what we heard. What we heard was that there would be nothing! What we heard was "if you don't want to negotiate, then there's nothing! Do not keep on seeking. ” So if you are telling us that there are at least two years, it is already progress. But, Prime Minister, let me ask you a question about one last issue: fires. We are soon one year away from the Pedrogan tragedy and I maintain my commitment — I have kept it - and I have done it - every two months to go to the ground to observe what is happening and progress. I have checked several progress and have also verified unacceptable situations. Of course, one of them, particularly shocking, which aims at the largest company in Pedrogão, a 100 % exporting company, which does what Mr. Prime Minister and all of us defend that it is to take advantage of forest biomass, take advantage of infestants, to turn them into pellets — an example of green economy, an example of helping clean up land. This company has been stopped for a year, with 30 jobs committed, with more than 300 indirect jobs that were in the cleaning of forests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. How is it possible, Prime Minister, that this matter is not resolved? As there are also situations of first houses to be resolved, and I no longer speak of Mondays,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u123	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u124	... or cases of entrepreneurs who continue to pay the car tax that are burned, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u125	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u126	Everything needs to be normalized and the government must have the capacity and agility to solve these issues too. Finally, why are we on World Environment Day, Prime Minister, already able to tell me whether strategic environmental assessment is needed for the Lisbon airport, or is this not yet? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u127	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u128	Mr President, Madam Member, we are in a negotiation and the government has not withdrawn its negotiating proposal. What the government does not do is a unilateral agreement! I am proposing to you that you do not accept the agreement and do you want me to unilaterally implement what I have proposed? Oh, my God! Don't! Negotiation is this: I propose and you accept or counterproposal. We proposed and the proposal is on the table. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] on the day that the unions want to resume the negotiation of our proposal we will be open to it. We do not withdraw the proposal, but we do not unilaterally declare it, because that is not an agreement. That would be a unilateral measure. I am glad you spoke about the topic of fires—of which I saw you passionately talk on television—to clarify what happens to Enerpelets. The government provided the EUR 5 million, which was the difference between what Enerpellets received from insurance and what was the value of the losses. It turns out that because of the fact that nothing has to do with the government, but with regard to the business life of that company, the EUR 7 million that the company received from the insurance contract have been repaid. Therefore, who is missing is not the government, which has made available the EUR 5 million. What happens is that, in the context of private law—and you are an emeritus doctor in civil law —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u129	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u130	... creditors have undermined the company's credit for insurance companies and therefore the company does not have the necessary resources. Of course, it is not for the State to replace what is the money that was made available by insurance companies and which were executed by creditors. This is the reality, Mrs. Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's not, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u131	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have followed with concern the process conducted by the Government in the context of social consultation with regard to labour legislation, which culminated with an agreement between the Government and the partners of the custom. What is in the agreement distorts the expectations of the fight against precariousness and the claims that the Government itself has made on this matter. It does not combat precariousness when doubles the experimental period for workers seeking first employment or in a long-term unemployment situation, insisting on a rule which the Constitutional Court has already considered unconstitutional. It does not combat precariousness when an acceptable level of precariousness is established, above which companies pay a fee — they pay the rate and the precarious work continues. This is not to combat precariousness, Prime Minister, it is to tolerate it and to legalize it. It also does not defend collective bargaining by maintaining its expiry, stressing the conditions for the elimination of entitlements and for the degradation of wages, nor does it advocate the rights of workers insisting on promoting the deregulation of schedules, maintaining the so-called "adaptables" and the bank of hours, now in a new version that allows for the extension of the time plus 2 hours a day, and may reach 50 hours a week. Mr. Prime Minister, there is an unmistakable question: precariousness fights by applying a policy that ensures that a permanent job corresponds to an effective employment contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u134	Collective recruitment defends itself by abrogating expiry and rests on the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. The deregulation of working hours fights to put an end to the time frame and adaptability. The rights of workers are defended by the repeal of the serious standards of the Labour Code and labour legislation for the Public Administration. That was the way in which work and workers were valued, but the government decided to make the opposite choice. The proposals that the government has made with the employer will penalize the lives of hundreds of thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u136	Does the government want to convince us that, with these measures, it will combat precarious work without rights? No one who knows the reality of the world of work can be convinced that this will happen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u137	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u138	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, precariousness is being tackled with the policies that we have been following, so that of the almost 300 000 new jobs that have been created over these two years, 85 % are endless contracts. Precautionary is being battled with the policies we have now adopted. What is now contained in this social agreement, which we regret is that it has not been signed by all the social partners, which is the result of our Government programme. First, there is a reduction in the grounds for recourse to term contracts, insofar as the fact that young people are seeking the first or long-term unemployed is no longer the basis for long-term contracts. Secondly, there is a reduction in the term of contracts, which fall from three to two years or from six to four years, when the term is correct or when the term is uncertain. A second very important guarantee is that all renewal periods may not exceed the duration of the first contract, which means, within the limit, that if the first contract is six months, the total duration of the term contract may not exceed one year of validity. Thirdly, there is the introduction of a rate which penalises the rate of excessive turnover — not that which is acceptable, but that which is excessive — which is measured according to what is the average in each sector of activity, because none of us ignores that there are sectors, such as tourism or agriculture, which, by the very nature of the activity, by its marked seasonality, have different situations. Finally, with regard to collective bargaining, we made an agreement, also signed by the partners of the custom, which frozen the expiry until July next year, to allow time for the social partners to extend the margins of collective bargaining, and we increased the number of workers in collective bargaining, which today are much more than at the beginning of the legislature, although they are few in relation to those who should be. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u139	And with worse collective contracts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u140	On the other hand, we eased the process of adopting extension doors. We now anticipate the survival, in case of expiry, in the individual employment contract, of matters as important as parental rights or the rights of workers-students, and we also withdraw from the possibility of individual negotiation the hourly banks, ending with the individual hourly bank, and even the group hourly bank, on the basis of individual bargaining with each worker. This strengthens social dialogue in the company, strengthens collective bargaining and collectively protects workers. This is the function of labour law and this is the first time, in many and many years, that we have a social agreement that does not aim to limit rights or deregulation of the relationship of work, but, on the contrary, aims to strengthen collective protection of work and increase the rights of workers, which is something that we should all value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u141	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, we've been here a long time ago and I think neither you nor I are convinced of what you just said. If this were of a global positive nature for the workers, would the Prime Minister believe that he would see the signature of the major employers' confederations there? [[It's obvious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u143	Don't think that, it's naive! That is to want to deceive yourself, of course, because of course that will not happen. However, continuing, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, about the teachers, it is unacceptable to note that the count of time is not approved in the State budget and that it is, on an authoritarian basis, imposed on teachers who accept 2 years and 9 months, or will not be counted for any time. There's no giving again, Prime Minister! The State Budget says that all the time will have to count. What is being discussed and what must be discussed is the way, mode and time as it is paid, it is not the time that counts, because this is a matter set by the State budget itself. It is in this sense that it is unacceptable to argue that the negotiation took place only in relation to time and not in relation to the phase-up to achieve this great fair claim of teachers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u144	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u145	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I am sure that if I did not believe that, I did not support this agreement. And I believe because, indeed, as I have often said, the fight against precariousness today is not only in the interests of the worker himself, firstly, and in his dignity, but also in the interests of the employers themselves. The work relations of companies in the future cannot be based on precariousness, because the capital element for the success of these companies is innovation, and there is only innovation if there is training, and there is only investment in training if there is time to take advantage of this training. It may even say that it is the company's selfish interest, but it is also in the same selfish interest of the company that precariousness has to be combated, because otherwise the company cannot cost off the investment costs in training and, without this training, cannot have improvements in productivity. That is why this is a fight that today is not just one of them, it is of everyone, because it is a fight for the future economy, based on the increasing innovation and qualification of our workers, a fight that is essential for the stability of the lives of our workers and for the dignity of work and that must be preserved. I do not want to waste my time now, so I move on to the question of negotiation with the teachers. We do not confuse a resolution adopted at the initiative of the Greens, which is a recommendation to the Government, with what is contained in the State Budget Act. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] We sat at the negotiating table with the same good faith that we always sat down, we put forward a proposal and, before the proposal we presented, the answer was always that of intransigence: 9 years, 4 months and 2 days and not less than 1 hour. It's 600 million euros! We don't have 600 million euros! [[Protests by the MP of the PCP Ana Mesquita and the MP of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] We therefore put forward a proposal which we have the conditions to implement and, in addition to the EUR 90 million that is already in force and which allows the situation of more than 45 000 teachers to be frozen this year alone, we put an effort which meant an increase of EUR 170 million. But what we found on the other side was intransigence. When there is another position, we will certainly continue to dialogue, as we have always spoken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u146	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u147	Mr President, Prime Minister, we wanted to ask you a question related to a problem that recently arose with the liquidation of the IRS ( income tax for natural persons) of pensioners who had extraordinary pension increases in 2017. We have received complaints from families of pensioners who had extraordinary increases in pensions in August 2017 and who, as a result, have no longer benefited from deductions within IRS, since the Tax Authority considers that the value of the pension exceeds that of the minimum pension and therefore there is no longer room for such deductions. This interpretation of finances is not correct with the aim of ensuring the increase in lower pensions, because, if you take revenge, what will happen is that because of an increase of €20 or €30 in the annual pension, you lose a deduction of €500 or 600 per dependent, plus €400 of household support expenses. It's not fair! What is correct is that the annual pension value resulting from the increases made in January and August should be taken into account so that the deductions within IRS remain. I ask you, Prime Minister: will the Government make an effort to correct this envelope, which is far from our will to increase reforms and pensions? Mr. Prime Minister, I put another question to you: from December 2015 to March 2018, 177 agencies from the General Deposit Box were closed and some 900 workers from the public bank boards left. What I ask you is that you confirm the news about the closure of more than 75 agencies by the end of the month. I would also like to say a word on the question of Community funds. in the short time we have, we would like to ask you whether you follow the strange statements made by your Minister for Agriculture, which sees the reduction of some EUR 1 billion in Community funds for the CAP (common agricultural policy) at constant prices, good news for farmers and bad news for the Budget. After the CAP had caused the failure and destruction of 400 000 farms, we had to accept the renationalisation of costs and the national budget had to bear the costs of their options. for our part, Prime Minister, know that he will count, either in the Assembly of the Republic or in the European Parliament, with the opposition of the CFP to such a proposal. And on the part of the government, will we count on your availability? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u148	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u149	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I now answer the last question: yes, of course! That is why we have been working and we will continue to work, so that, either in cohesion policy or in the common agricultural policy, we do not suffer cuts. This is important in a context where it is essential that the new policies financed by the Community budget and the reduction of contributions by the United Kingdom do not have their adjustment valves in these two policies. That's what I've told all the benches, that's what I repeat and that we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u150	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u151	I conclude now, Mr President. On the first question which has been raised, I can say that the Tax Authority has already detected the error, will proceed to the reprocessing of all the IRS statements of these pensioners, who, without need of complaint, will see their amended liquidation, so as not to suffer the penalty they had no right, which was not justified that they had and therefore that is the point of the situation today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u152	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u153	Mr President, Prime Minister, you cannot overthrow what has been approved by the Assembly of the Republic and which is set out in Article 19. the State Budget and also the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 1 / 2018, which, as Mr. Prime Minister well said, was presented by the Green Party and also approved with the votes of the PS. These two elements, these two pieces, what do they say? They say that, with regard to the time of service for career progression, we will count all the time of service provided. Then they say that the government must negotiate with the unions, in this case, the time limit and the way in which this application of all the time of service is implemented. I mean, what does that mean? That the government will negotiate with the unions the phase-up, the progressiveity for the implementation of all this time of service. That's what's approved. The government now, in an arrogant way, wants to pretend that it is none of this that is approved, and it is starting to negotiate what is not negotiable, which is the counting of all the time of service. It is clear, therefore, that this cannot be accepted, Prime Minister. More, create this blackmail before the unions and say that they either accept the 2 years and 9 months that they want to propose for counting the time of service or, then, take nothing, it is overthrowing everything. Mr. Prime Minister, this PS government is being a disappointment to teachers, not only for other careers that also depend on this time of service. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u155	Mr President, Madam Member, I know what the resolution that makes a recommendation to the Government says, but I also know what the rule of the State budget requires the Government. The rule of the State budget that obliges the Government never says that it is the full length of time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u156	It says "time"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u157	The rule reads as follows: « The remuneration expression of service time in careers(...) is considered in a negotiation process with a view to defining the time and mode for its implementation, taking into account the sustainability and compatibility with the resources available ». The government was not arrogant, it was not intransigent or blackmailed. The government sat at the table with the unions and put forward a proposal. The proposal he presented was to consider, in addition to the thawing that already exists for all teachers, and that only this year has more than 45 000 teachers, the accounting of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. It presented this proposal in March, April, passed May, we arrived in June, and during these months there was no provision to negotiate by the unions. They remained intransigent in response to the proposal submitted by the Government. You mean that the government is authoritarian, that the government is arrogant? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u158	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u159	So we put forward a proposal, the answer they give us is "Not an hour less than 9 years, 4 months and 2 days" and we are arrogant and intransigent? Oh, my God! Madam Member, I do not classify the other parties, each negotiating as you understand, but, with all honesty, we have proposed, the others do not propose anything, just maintain the position they were initially in. In negotiation, this is an intransigent position that the Government cannot follow, and cannot, moreover, follow for a simple reason: we have no money to pay more than 600 million euros a year for this wage claim. We don't! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] It's very simple, Mrs. Member, we don't have! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u160	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u161	Mr President, Prime Minister, are you saying that you will not comply with the resolution adopted by the Assembly of the Republic? Yes or no? But more: you are saying that you will not comply with Article 19. that of the State budget, which speaks of the count « of service time », which means all the time of service effectively provided, or will we be here discussing the issue of the article, Prime Minister? Honestly! As far as sustainability is concerned, that is precisely why — and Mr Prime Minister knows that it would not cost EUR 600 million, it is not worthwhile to be claiming this number — that it would not be the progression in everyone's career at the same time on the same day. It is precisely in order not to have that weight and to take account of this financial issue, which is about phase-up and progressiveity. It seems that the government would like it to cost EUR 600 million, but that is not what the unions claim, they are willing to step up the counting of the time of service. Mr. Prime Minister, open this availability, comply with the law, comply with the State budget and comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. Today is World Environment Day. Indeed, we have always raised environmental issues here, and today we will certainly not leave them to raise them, too, to say that we are afraid that the government, in environmental matters, will go the same way as the others. What do I mean by this? It's just that all you can charge is for tax. I am referring to plastics, the plague of plastics in our societies, reflected in our environment and our seas. The Greens have already presented numerous proposals in the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the market is also responsible for regulating and reducing plastics. The Government does not submit proposals on this subject and the PS here does not approve the Greens proposals. So, Prime Minister, if logic is just tax, that is not the right way, we must all work to reduce these wastes, which is a matter that is imposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u163	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would just like to mention another issue, which has to do with giving in to economic interests. This is what the government is demonstrating about the Eni-Galp consortium when it refuses to assess the environmental impact on oil research off Aljezur. Mr Prime Minister, what could an environmental impact study demonstrate or reveal that the government does not want it to be revealed? [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u164	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u165	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I will be even telegraphed to see if I can answer the three questions within the 59 seconds that I have left. First of all, the government does not want to hide anything or have finished anything. The Government has only accepted the technical decision of the Portuguese Environment Agency, which has provided the environmental assessment study for the prospecting phase but has not provided it for a possible exploitation phase, if any. Secondly, for plastics on 8 June, i.e. three days from now, the report on the policy for reducing and re-using plastics will be presented. Thirdly, and returning to the question of teachers, I would like to make it very clear, definitely, that, when I spoke of 600 million euros, that is not the cost of 9 years, 4 months and 2 days, because 9 years, 4 months and 2 days also include the suspension of the count between 2005 and 2007. These 600 million euros are only at the cost that would have the time from 2011 to 2017, and, however much more phased at the end of the day, is always 600 million euros per year, Mrs Deputy! It must be noted that it is not EUR 600 million that I now invest in building a set of schools. No, it is no longer EUR 600 million that will be paid every year in relation to this situation, and for that there are no conditions. Therefore, fulfilling the law of the Assembly of the Republic, with good negotiation and constructive spirit, we have gone to the limit of financial capacities, firstly, and equal treatment for all other State servants, secondly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u166	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u167	We have every respect for educators and teachers, but we cannot introduce a discriminatory measure for other professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u168	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u169	That is why the 2 years, 9 months and 18 days is not a cabalistic number that came out of our imagination, is the number that teachers would put on exactly equal footing with all the others and in a way that, according to the law of the State Budget, corresponds to the financial availability. Madam Member, we can have all the dreams of the world, but it is very simple: we do not have 600 million euros available more every year, the country does not have that value available to pay to teachers. You don't! That's how I can't tell you anything else. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u170	To put questions, I now give the floor to Mr André Silva of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u171	Afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister : Today the World Environment Day is celebrated, the day on which the Government presented the report on the state of the environment 2018. The report states that the agricultural sector is the only one that is not in line with the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, referring to the same thing as, and I quote, « the increase in emissions associated with agriculture is explained mostly by the increase in the population of bovine and swine ». This report also confirms what has been known, through data from the Portuguese Environment Agency, that all groundwater systems in Portugal are contaminated, pollution resulting from the intensive and abusive use of pesticides and fertilizers and the discharges of toxic effluents from livestock industries. As if this environmental destruction framework caused by intensive livestock production was not enough, it adds the fact that the agricultural sector is responsible for around 80 % of the country's water consumption. But the cherry on the top of the cake of these productive policies is that we pay for this to happen: support, aid, benefits, contributions, various exemptions, are many mechanisms that serve to drain public money for meat and milk producers. Intensive agriculture and the production of meat and milk are the sectors that most water consume, which more water pollute, which less tax contributions take and which we still pay to pollute. The state pays to pollute. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three questions: first, what do you think of these data, which, year after year, prove the total environmental unsustainability of meat and milk production? Second, what do you think about the possibility of applying the internalization of environmental costs to livestock business? Thirdly, what measures will the Government take to curb the environmental impacts caused by this sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u172	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u173	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I almost wish to express my solidarity with pigs and cattle, so little loved by the NAP. In response, we cannot ignore the importance in all regions of the country, and not only in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, agricultural activity and agro-industrial activities. No one ignores the important contribution that cattle and pigs have to the emission of CO2 and other gases, such as methane. This means that we must also include the sector in the path towards reducing emissions, with a view to meeting our climate change objectives. As the sector where increasing greenhouse gas emissions occur, it is important to strengthen efforts over the next decade, and the main measures we consider appropriate are, on the one hand, to reduce the carbonic intensity of the treatment of effluents in livestock, for example by promoting more efficient management systems, on the other hand, to reduce the consumption of nitrogen fertilizers, in accordance with good agricultural practices, and finally to increase efficiency in energy consumption and the use of renewable energy sources in agricultural activity, as a way to compensate for emissions produced by animals themselves. This is the strategy that we should strive to develop, in line with the other sectors, so that we can contribute to better managing the climate change challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u174	We have thus reached the end of our single agenda item, the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Government for their presence and participation in this debate. In the meantime, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: draft deliberation No 19 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ) ; drafts of lein.o 900 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 901 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The rules allowing the conclusion of the contract are repealed only because workers are in demand for the first and long-term unemployed ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 902 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment for workers ( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 903 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reverts cuts introduced by the PSD/CDS government on holiday days, at compensatory rest, to the increase in remuneration due to additional work and devotes to Tuesday carnival as a compulsory holiday (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u176	I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to interrupt his reading until there is room noise conditions in order to continue. Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep quiet so that we can hear Mr Duarte Pacheco. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 904 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Combat false temporary work and restrict the use of outsourcing and temporary work (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 905 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal on objective grounds when the employer makes compensation available to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 906 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 27 / 2008 of 30 June establishing the conditions and procedures for granting asylum or subsidiary protection, strengthening the right to family reunification( 2 ). the amendment to the Asylum Act, approved by Law No 27 / 2008 of 30 June ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; 907 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthening rights and conditions of monitoring for children ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 908 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Replacement of family allowance steps for children and young people with a view to their universality ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 909 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and 910 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Insert environmental crimes into the list of competences of the Department of Investigation and Criminal Action and the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action ( PAN ), which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 11. a. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1666 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by monitoring the effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( Scientific Employment ) ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1667 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the High School of Valbom, Gondomar ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1668 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work with ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) to ensure that the conditions necessary for improving the operationality of Madeira International Airport - Cristiano Ronaldo ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1669 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of the main military hospital and Belém Military Hospital as back-up hospitals in social and clinical support for military and former military personnel of the Armed Forces ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission ; 1670 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening and restructuring of the Emergency Service at the Centre Hospital de Médio Tejo ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1671 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — More health care for the population of Our Lady of Fatima, municipality of Aveiro ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1672 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government remove administrative obstacles to the enforcement of the right to family reunification of immigrants and applicants for international protection in Portugal ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; 1673 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study the possibility of introducing sexism in pre-school education ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by strengthening responses in the area of child health in primary health care ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1675 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote urgent measures to end the environmental and public health problem in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo, as a result of the extraction of olive oil, returning to the population the deserving quality of life ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1676 / XIII ( 3. a ) — It creates measures that enable the fair regularization of situations of non-compliance to which the residents of the social neighbourhoods ( BE) were forced, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1677 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — It proposes measures to initiate procedures for the remodeling and expansion of the Hospital de Beja ( PCP ), which is down to 9. the Commission ; 1678 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement environmental sections in the Departments of Research and Criminal Action ( PAN ), which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 11. a ; 1679 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a special career of nature watchers, which falls to 11. the Commission with connection 10. a ; 1680 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government integrate into the overall plans for the management of the lobo-birico the compulsoryity of refugee areas of wild prey in each population nucleus ( NAP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and 1681 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the stopping of freight trains in the Alentejo, particularly in Évora, New Sales and Marble Area ( Estremoz, Borba, Vila Viçosa and Alandroal ), but also the use of the whole line in the transport of passengers ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-05.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco for the efficiency and effort. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, for 15 hours, and has as a point of order the appraisal of Bill No 568 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Assistance to bathers (The Greens), followed by statutory votes. The session is over. [[It was 17 hours.]]
