ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Let us begin with the agenda for today's plenary meeting, whose first point is the discussion of draft resolution No 1434 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates 21 March as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination ( PS ). To present the draft resolution and to speak on this matter, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Racism has not been born today. Racism has a historical matrix of building relations of power and doctrine waged in the elimination of the intrinsic value of the racialized person. It is our duty to recognize that the phenomenon exists. It is our constitutional duty not to exaggerate any form of discrimination. With this draft resolution, we want to dedicate 21 March as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination — as you know, there is already an International Day, after the tragic events that are of everyone's knowledge — and commit ourselves to fulfilling national and international commitments to combat racial discrimination. Is it symbolic? Also, but the symbolic has an essential dimension and this day allows us to give centrality to a theme that, we admit, does not have the proper centrality on our party agendas. Look at this camera! I feel the embarrassment of it not to reflect Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Listen to racialized people and their daily experience of interpersonal and institutional racism. Portugal is not, for thousands of people, the country of soft customs, it is the country that judges differently, that holds differently, that pushes for social ghettos who, also in employment, does not reach far because of the color of their skin. Born in Portugal is not enough to be Portuguese, which, in my personal opinion, is bad, very bad. Racism is not a myth, despite some literature that goes around. We did decolonization, but we have to decolonize narratives, bet on pilot projects in education against racism, prepare future generations for a non-racist society, bet on the production of knowledge, take seriously, seriously, international reports on police violence and the two recommendations produced in two years, 2012 and 2016, to which we are linked, in order to take affirmative action in key areas such as education, health and employment and to strengthen the gender dimension in combating racism. We know that the government is working on the launch of the UN International Decade of Afro-descendants. That this work produces results, as well as the work on censuses, in order to know where we left and to take serious action in a country that is not aware of what white privilege is. These words are not against anyone. The time has come to give voice to racialized people and to defend against what has no defense, racism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u3	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u4	Mr President, the prevention and elimination of racial discrimination are the designs of a more just, more inclusive and equal society, which, of course, are enshrined in Article 13. that of our Constitution. Portuguese legislation already defines certain discriminatory behaviours as crimes and counter-orders, depending on their seriousness. Any discriminatory attitude, whether in access to employment, in the provision of goods or services, in the exercise of economic activity, in the sale or lease of buildings, in access to public places and to health or educational establishments, on the basis of criteria of race, colour, nationality or ethnic origin, is clearly to be rejected by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Portugal has signed and accompanied all international instruments promoting the fight against racism — the Charter of the United Nations, the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Durban Declaration — and last December 19 2017, the United Nations General Assembly urged all States to introduce concrete measures for the total elimination of all forms of discrimination. Although our country is on the front line as a subscriber to all international instruments, the PSD Parliamentary Group recognizes that we still have a long way to go. We know that racial discrimination continues to affect the lives of many people directly, paying attention to their rights and limiting their exercise. In this regard, we recall the importance of the National Strategy for the Integration of the Roma Communities ( ENICC ), adopted in 2013, and of the integration of refugees in Portugal. These are fundamental issues, for which we will never cease to question and follow up on the Government's action in the implementation and fulfilment of its responsibilities. on 21 March, the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination is signed, recalling that racism, xenophobia and various forms of discriminatory violence related to prejudice and hatred are a reality with which we still live and against which it is still necessary to fight. Of course, the Social Democratic Party shares the concerns underlying this draft resolution — the consecration of March 21 as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination — but more than the institution of days, Mrs and Mrs. Members, we reiterate the need to implement concrete policies that promote the integration, awareness-raising and awareness-raising of society as a whole against discrimination, in this case against racial discrimination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u5	You have the floor, too, to request clarification from Mrs Isabel Moreira, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u6	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Isabel Moreira on her speech and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the presentation of this proposal, because, in fact, there is no day that is less important than any other day for the country and all of us to fight racism. There is no strategy that is less important than any other strategy for the country and all of us to fight racism. Therefore, it is important to mobilize the symbolic and the legal, educational and criminal, as well as all other forms of intervention to effectively combat racism in our society, both its most visible and grotesque expressions, such as subliminal racism, institutionalized racism, which is deeply installed in Portugal and that we are very concerned about the news that we have about the representation of certain racial expressions, let us say, in the prison population, or about the behaviours of police violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we insist that we present proposals such as those we have already presented on socio-cultural mediators, proposals for the implementation of the United Nations action programme, such as that of the International Decade of Afro-descendants, because all this is of the greatest importance for us to move forward. By the way, it would also be of the utmost importance that we improve the criminal law regime on the crime of racism. Portugal cannot give up anything in the fight against racism. If a national day serves to assume that there is racism in Portugal, which is not a residual reality, it is not a vestige that tends to disappear, if a national day serves to put the fight against racism as a mark of all the national struggle for human rights, it is useful to change cultures highly installed in the Public Administration and if the Public Administration is mobilized to be an actor of this struggle, if so, it is worth it. We therefore support this project in this perspective. In fact, it will only be worth it if it is so, because all that remains of this will not only be poor, but dangerously perverse, and here we have to be all and all to fight this perverseness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u7	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u8	Mr President, I begin by greeting Mrs Isabel Moreira for bringing this issue here, which I have no doubt unites the whole House. Discriminatory practices, regardless of which they are, obviously, against the rule of law and against a basic principle of our rule of law, which is Article 13. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which we all have as first and foremost duty to defend. This is a mission which is essential to any state of democratic law and we in Parliament are the first to have to do. Portugal is not an extreme case of discrimination, especially when compared with other countries, but, for us, there is only one case of discrimination — whatever it is, and much more so — to require such action from us. There is only one case for this to be considered a problem for us. The truth is that, despite the various national and international instruments, there are still various forms of discrimination that persist and insist and that we must all strive to fight. We have nothing against the institution of a National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, rather, we greet him. But we say that, more than the one-day institution, there is a need for awareness, training and that they have the virtue to eliminate discrimination that still exists, whether racial or religious or sexual. What is important is that, in fact, there are actions in this regard, training actions and effective instruments not only for the promotion of rights and the elimination of discrimination, but also for the integration of all, as it should be. This day, of course, emphasizes the issue and is a symbolic landmark, which, for us, makes sense, so once again we greet him. But what is also important for us is that, alongside the institution on a symbolic day, other forms of promotion of rights, integration and, above all, of combating discrimination are promoted. We therefore call on the Government and all this Parliament to stand up for these rights and promote more and more policies to help eliminate any discriminatory practice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u9	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u10	Mr President, it is for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u11	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the CFP Parliamentary Group agrees with the creation of one day to point out the problem of racial discrimination, making two additional comments. The first point is this: it will not be a day to celebrate a solved problem. No, far away from that. This is a day to point out a problem that needs to be solved because, indeed, we cannot assume that in Portugal the problem of racial discrimination is an eradicated problem. No, it is a latent problem, a problem we must always be aware of. On the other hand, I would like to make a second remark: that it is not a day for the other 364 or 365 days of the year to lower the guard in relation to the need to pay constant attention to combating racial discrimination. But it is important, in fact, that there may be a day when there is an increased reflection on these problems and a debate on the measures still needed to help resolve a social problem of great importance. This Parliament has great responsibilities and has an intervention heritage on this matter. in the VI legislature, a law against racial discrimination was passed here, a pioneering law in Europe that we have much to be proud of, and which, even for the first time, led to the creation of an entity specially designed to ensure the application of anti-discrimination legislation on racial discrimination. It was the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, which later became part of another entity. We understand that Parliament has set an example in this matter. Recently, already in this legislature, the law against racial discrimination has been updated, with the awareness that there is, fortunately, sensitivity in Portugal by this sovereign body to address this problem, but also that there is all work to be done to ensure that the legislation approved here is effectively applied and that at no level, whether it is the Public Administration or private relations, problems of racial discrimination can be detected without any consequence to end these problems and to hold those responsible for violations of the law. So what we are proposing today is that it be instituted one day for this problem to be pointed out and, of course, we agree with this institution, without failing to notice that this problem cannot be circumscribed to one day—though not that which is proposed—but that every day of the year must be days to combat racial discrimination in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u13	Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor to answer and intervene if you like.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u14	Mr President, precisely because the problem is not solved is that it is necessary to establish this day, which has an important symbolic dimension and a political dimension, giving centrality to the issue of racism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Lack of centrality to the issue of racism in political debate and the best friend of racism is precisely invisibility. Therefore, as I said from the rostrum, in paragraph 2 of the draft resolution we urge the Government to fulfil its international commitments. Portugal has a serious problem with racism. And who knows whether or not racism exists in Portugal is precisely racialized people, who give us daily testimony of what their life is with interpersonal, institutional racism. They know what they're talking about, they know better than anyone. Therefore, this project is important, because the problem is not solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u16	This project is important so that we can, of course, reflect on the problem every day, and so that this day, marked in this way, helps that racism has a centrality in the political debate which, from our point of view, has not had what it deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u17	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolution No 1434 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), we move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion, together, in general, of draft law No 707 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association ( BE ), of draft resolution No 1519 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Acting for a Demarcado do Douro region with future ( PSD ) and, in general, for the projects of lein.o 840 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the statutes of the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 841 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes ( PS ). To open the debate, and to present the bill of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The House of Douro was created in 1932 with the aim of defending the wine producers of the Douro demarcado region, the oldest in the world. Its genesis gave it a mixed nature: protection of wine growers against fluctuations in the market and speculative action of exporters and, on the other hand, of competences delegated by the State in order to ensure the quality of wine. Wrong policies of successive directions led the House of Douro to a disastrous financial situation that the intervention of the central administration, under the aegis of several governments, did not settle in a timely and efficient manner. In addition to these weaknesses, the action of the former Government, PSD / CDS-PP, was in the sense of emptying the competences of this Durian farm institution and transforming it into a private association of minor relevance, which came to pass. Fortunately, with the contribution of the Left Block and other parties, as an urgent measure for the reversal of this disastrous action, the Assembly of the Republic approved, last year, with the votes against the right, the cessation of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015, of the responsibility of the previous Government, a diploma that, among other injustices, benefited, in the criteria of representativeness, the area of vineyard planted to the detriment of the number of producers and in practice consumed the end of the House of Douro. The cessation of that Decree was the first step in opening new roads for the defence of Dura winegrowers and in resolving the conflict that the previous Government has sown, weakening the about 30,000 producers in the region with less than 1 ha on average in relation to the interests of trade and the large exporting houses. Now, here, the Left Block took the initiative to take the second and final step: to restore the historic House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration, ensuring the representation of Durian viticulture, inheriting legitimacy, heritage and the essential functions of the prestigious House of Douro, liquidated by incompetent management and a government waged in its destruction. The bill we bring here guarantees maximum democracy in the choice of the leaders of the House of Douro, returning the direction to be elected by universal suffrage and direct by the vine growers. To this end, we are moving forward with new statutes and with an electoral regulation, already ensuring a clear return to democratic tradition from the Assembly of the Republic. With the appointment of the current administrative committee as an installation committee, it is effective and simplified to meet the requirements of a short transitional period until the democratic election of the bodies of the restored public association Casa do Douro. The workers of the former House of Douro were shamefully abandoned to their fate by the former Government. Therefore, we propose that, in so far as it appears necessary, the new commission installer may hire them, as a factor of preference they have been employees of the extinct House of Douro. Finally, by restoring the House of Douro, it also recovers for the vine growers of the Region the possession of its historic and iconic headquarters in the Weight of the Ruler, ensuring the full fulfilment of its function of public utility. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The restoration of the House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration, based on democratic statutes and practices and assuming the representation and defense of Durian wine production, is the minimum basis for conciliation that we believe is possible between the three proposals here present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Assembly of the Republic has met with the deepest wishes of the people of the Durian region. by the Left Block, the Assembly of the Republic shall not fail. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u19	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The historic region demarcada do Douro, with the sweat of thousands of farmers and the competence of many companies, is responsible for one of the greatest pieces of all Portuguese foreign trade ever. It is therefore a rich region. But the balance between what the Douro gives to the country and what it receives from the country is dramatic. in the last 20 years — listen carefully — the region has seen 40% of its young people flee. All conditions for the perfect storm in the Douro Vinhateiro are now combined: the sales of wine from the port have decreased by 20 years by 20 % in volume; in the Douro wine, farmers sell their grapes at less than half the price they produce; and, annually, wine surpluses exceed 20 million litres. If you do not attack the root of the problems, of eyes placed in the future, in time, the survival of hundreds of small and medium-sized farmers will be called into question. Stay stuck in the past and take the focus from the essential, as happens with the bills of the Left Block, the PCP and the PS today under discussion, resumed a model of representation of the anachronic production that failed roundly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u22	... which creates conflict by turning producers against producers and producers against traders, which favours the institutions, which raises legal and constitutional doubts and which is not required by farmers, only by politicians, does not solve the real problems of the Douro, aggravates them. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Yes, attacking in front of the root of the problems, of eyes placed in the future, requires courage and focus on the fundamental. What to do to facilitate the attraction to the business of dynamic, innovative, creative young people? How to increase the financial, technical, negotiation capacity, management of producer associations, cooperatives? How to improve productivity, quality image, value creation? What to do to ensure greater equity and balance in the value chain? How to resolve the key issue of surpluses, which degrades the quality image of wine and, consequently, the price paid to farmers? [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] These are issues such as those that need to be answered and addressed in the future. The project presented here is therefore intended to urge the government, which has been washing its hands as Pilates, to fulfil its obligation to promote answers to these questions. But the project we present is also a warning to the urgency of moving from words to acts. And, in this sense, I am addressing the Socialist Party in particular: the Socialist Party, in the Demarcado douro region, can choose to follow the path with the bloggers and the communists, but if you genuinely think about the future of the Douro and the Durians can follow another path. The PSD assumes its responsibilities and challenges, here and now, the Socialist Party for a constructive dialogue on everything at stake. The PSD is available in an open-minded manner for a dialogue with the Socialist Party that is comprehensive and that finds the right solutions to the real problems of the Demarcated Douro Region. The Durians call upon us, the PSD and the Socialist Party, that sense of responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u23	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there is much work to be done with regard to the return of the House of Douro to its regulatory role in this important Demarcated Region. It is necessary to recognize that the entire process of extinction of the House of Douro has been developed promoting other interests than those of the winegrowers, having no concern with the interests of the Durian farm and the House of Douro. What is really necessary is to ensure the defence of about 20 000 wine growers before the interests of the exporting houses. This is the high priority of this initiative, because if the Douro Vinhateiro is today World Heritage owes it to the small winegrowers. We do not come with wasted stories and excuses for financial sanitation because what happened, with the responsibility of PS governments, the PSD and the CDS, was a programmed extinction as a public association, distorting the objectives that determine the creation of the association, particularly with regard to the democratization of its functioning and the election of its organs after 25 April. It was precisely the reforms implemented that created the serious problems of financial sustainability, because these reforms led to such a loss of competence that depleted the ability of the House of Douro to generate sufficient revenue. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what did you create? What was created was a private entity that does not represent the set of producers, leaving out important subsectors, as is the case for cooperatives and bottlers producers, who integrated the representation when it was assured by the House of Douro, and thousands of small producers who were left without representation. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed much work to be done. The CFP believes that it is vital to reconstitute Casa do Douro as a public association of compulsory registration, representative of Durian wine growers, with the strategic original functions, essential to the protection of production and producers, to the balance of the institutional organization of the demarcated region, as well as to the prestige and appreciation of all wine production. The CFP has always struggled with the need to rebuild the House of Douro as a public association, the need to approve its statutes, establish its own tax system, assign it functions and powers, not forgetting the need to repeal its previous legislation. For the PCP, it is not about accompanying others, but about continuing our long defense of the House of Douro. Mrs. Members, if the Douro is a World Heritage Site, it is to the small producers who owe it, which of the carps and mountains made the best wine in the world and that remarkable landscape. in this sense, the CFP lowers the Commission, without a vote, its project in order to carry out a broad discussion that serves the interests of Durian wine growers and the particular and very specific situation of small producers in the face of the economic and political power of trade. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 1984 there has been no legislative session in which the House of Douro issue has not been discussed in this Parliament. And something must be behind this process with so many years of debates, so many years of problems and so many years of absence of definitive solutions for the Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u27	It gets worse and worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u28	in this process, we are all responsible. They are responsible for the Douro leaders, some of them cleptomans, some of them who hoarded what the farmers' resources were, and they are also responsible for many of the national political agents, who did not know how to interpret the reality of the Demarcated Douro Region. at this moment, we have an opportunity, and this opportunity is to resolve definitely the problem of the institutional organization of the Demarcado do Douro Region. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u29	last year, for the first time since the Marquis de Pombal established the region, we saw a very strange circumstance: the internal market was more relevant than the port wine market. That means a lot. That is to say, firstly, that the benefit and wine of the port that socially structured that region may be in question in the short term, and in the very short term. And who does not understand what the benefit is, who does not understand the specificities of the region, who does not understand why there is Basso Corgo, Alto Corgo, Douro Superior, with very different and very specific realities, can have a reading from Lisbon for a region that is only reading that the Douro is an extraordinary beauty. Of course, the Douro allowed more than a million tourists to enter last year, but it is also true that it cannot stay in this region 10 % of what each of these tourists brings to our country. The 230 Members must be aware of the circumstances in view of the reality that we live in, this social reality of the Douro. The Socialist Party expresses here today the complete availability to work with everyone so that we will definitely solve a problem that is going through in our memory and that is presented before us to find a definitive solution. We all know to be in touch with the situation without needing to look back to find responsibilities, but looking forward and taking on our responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u30	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS remains faithful to the proposal of the previous Government, which is, in essence, the House of Douro libre.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u33	A Free House, respecting something that is even a constitutional principle, which is freedom of association. We do not want to fail the producers, we do not want to undermine the consensus created and, therefore, we do not want to feed what has been said here by the Lima Costa and Ascension Simões from a past of political wars, from an attempt to control the region, from incompetence in management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u34	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u35	The management proposals want exactly that: not to protect producers, not to protect the region, not to provide them with modernity, they want their political and ideological control.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u36	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u37	Except for a small exception: at least the PS says that autoarchs in function cannot be leaders of the House of Douro. Well, I hoped it would include Members too and perhaps other incompatibilities, but it is already a principle of conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u39	We note today — those who know the Douro cannot fail to notice — a significant improvement in the quality and quantity of wines, tourism and the landscape. I will say that this is more due to UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Upper Douro) and the course of UTAD's Enology than to the action of the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u40	You guys just look on the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u41	This generated debt, generated loss of wealth, generated divisions in the region. Not recognizing this is being Alentejo and not being Douro, because if it were Douro I knew what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u42	Or the Dão!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u43	Or the Dão! But in the Dão, as you must know, most of the benefit is even in the district of Viseu, in S. João da Pesqueira, Tabuaço and Armamar. As you know, I'm from Viseu district and therefore I don't have any lessons on this matter, how you should calculate it! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u44	The current Douro House is peaceful, representative, has conditions to protocol with the State and to cooperate with the IVDP (Instituto dos Vinhos do Douro and Porto ), has conditions to participate in the interprofessional, has conditions to add innovation, to add value. Everything done like? by producers, in the hands of their associates who freely want to associate. The destination is of the producers, it is of the traders, it is of the region, that it must not be under the reach of any political power, of no political participation or of a party interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u45	You don't see the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u46	That's the House of the Douro we defend. For a very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen. Members: by deep respect for the region, by deep respect for the traders, by deep respect for the small producers, who can find in the House of Douro free and free association, all forecast their interests — renewal of the vineyard, improvement of caste, improvement of the quality of the wine, improvement and increase of the benefit, improvement of marketing and cooperation with all institutional actors, government or others. All this so that the Douro region is not only World Heritage of Humanity, not only be beauty, not only, as Miguel Torga said, an excess of nature, but it may also be what it is today: the gateway of tourism to the interior, the gateway of tourism to the Douro and the Dão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u47	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u48	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we hear and respect the call of the Socialist Party. We are available to find a solution that can go through the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, but we are not available to return to the past that has so damaged the region and which has so much harmed the producers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u49	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been very important for this small debate that we have done here and I believe that we have the minimum conditions needed to move forward. Firstly, we have no problem with considering the issues related to compulsory registration, we have no problem with considering the issues related to the representation of the Douro in interprofessionals. What we do not want is to be systematically in the situation of disqualification of the institutions of the Douro. When Mr. Hélder Amaral says that we have made an evolution, what I am concerned about is that the current House of Douro, the current federation called the House of Douro has not told him what he told us. For example, the IVV (Instituto da Vinha e do Vinho, IP) and the ViniPortugal ( Organisation Interprofessional do Vinho de Portugal ) do not pass any cartridge: zero! Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u51	I wasn't even passing before!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u52	No, sir! It is that the House of Douro and IVDP had the promotion money, and today this does not happen, because your Minister finished with the promotion money and handed it over to ViniPortugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u53	That is the point, sir! We are also doing a reading of the past, and that is why the PSD says: "We are available to work with the PS and we no longer want to have anything to do with the CDS." This is a past in which we have no doubt. The reality of the Douro is a reality that the PSD knows very well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u54	I will finish by telling Mr. President what I said on April 6, 2016 to Dr. Ferro Rodrigues: this House must be up to the time that Douro lives and we appeal to all of you. Members may be at the same time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u55	Mr António Lima Costa has signed up for a new intervention, but the PSD has only three seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u56	Mr President, I just wanted to note with pleasure the availability of the Socialist Party in principle. Let us therefore move from words to acts. We also naturally count on the CDS — it is not necessary to say so. Let's go to work! Let us move from words to acts with spirit opening, with frontality, in a comprehensive way, covering the structural problems of the Douro. Here we are to work on behalf of that region, whom we owe so much, to whom Portugal owes so much and which it deserves to be on the level of quality compatible with its potential. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u57	Mr Matias also spoke for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hélder Amaral, I would like to clarify our concept of pacification, which is certainly not the same as the CDS. If the pacification to which the CDS refers is the role of court proceedings, precautionary measures, protests and counterprotests, then that is not the pacification we want, Mr Hélder Amaral! If Mr Hélder Amaral refers to the freedom of a group to take advantage of the House of Douro against the interests of the overwhelming majority of small producers, then the CDS and the Left Block do not in fact have the same concept of freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u59	We don't have, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u60	We accept the Socialist Party's challenge to meet the demands, because the conclusion that we all have to draw — and the CDS should also have drawn in the last attack on the House of Douro, in which it was deeply involved — is that we must be able to meet the circumstances and find solutions that effectively respond to those who produce and to those who work in Durian wine growing. The CDS is certainly not at that point, as it has already demonstrated many times. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u61	Mrs. Members are thus concluded the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 707, 840 and 841 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) together with draft resolution No 1519 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We will move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists in a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1327 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transfer of facilities to the Farol of Ponta de São Jorge to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( The Greens), 1366 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer to the estate of the Autonomous Region of Madeira of the buildings annexed to the Lighthouse of São Jorge ( PSD ), 1353 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of the buildings annexed to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CFP ), 1525 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of buildings adjacent to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ), 1529 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse from Ponta de São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( BE ), 1516 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the infrastructure attached to the Lighthouse of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PAN ) and 1540 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the transfer of deactivated buildings annexed to the Farol of S. Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ). For an intervention on behalf of the Green Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not every day that the Greens bring a legislative initiative for discussion that not only deserves the consensus of all the other political forces represented in this House, but also led all the banks to associate themselves with their own initiatives to the objective that the Greens today want — to recommend that the Government proceed to transfer to the Autonomous Region of Madeira from the ownership of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse of the Ponta de São Jorge, which today are indispensable for its normal functioning. However, unanimity in the recognition of the opportunity for this transfer, which is already visible in the universe of proposed legislative initiatives on the subject, which are seven, one of each political force, shows that the Greens were and are right, not only in the presentation of their proposal, but also in their agenda and that, therefore, the proposal we make is fair. The Farol da Ponta de São Jorge, in the municipality of Santana, was designed in 1948 and began to function in 1959. But, along with the Farol, support housing facilities were built, which are also owned by the State. It happens that these facilities, in addition to having no actual and effective use at present, are abandoned and in a visible state of degradation, which will certainly increase over time if, however, no action is taken. If it is true that the facilities built with the Farol, at the time of the preparation of the project, wanted to meet the needs of the State to create conditions for the reception and stay of the workers of the Farol and their families, it is also true that today, in view of the current working conditions of the Farol, the requirements and conditions of reception for all those who work there and for their families are duly assured and in accordance with the laws in force, without the use and occupation of all the facilities, ending up with remaining spaces, as in fact attests to the fact that part of the building is literally leaving. In view of this table, the Greens consider that the installations attached to this Lighthouse, currently without any use and which are indispensable to ensure and ensure its operation, could and should have a more appropriate public use, or better, could and should have some public utility. In fact, these facilities currently for abandonment could and should contribute to improving the living conditions of the populations of the municipality of Santana and, in particular, of the populations of the parish of São Jorge, if it was guaranteed the transfer of the facilities available to the functioning of the Farol to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. thus, the regional government and / or the municipal council of Santana could not only enhance this heritage, seeking solutions that would transform the building currently to abandonment into a socially useful infrastructure, as well as avoid the continued degradation of this excellent heritage. It is therefore important for the Government to transfer to the Autonomous Region of Madeira the housing spaces annexed to the Farol of the Ponta de São Jorge, which currently have no operational relevance to the normal functioning of that State infrastructure and which are in the process of abandonment. This is the purpose of the legislative initiative which the Greens bring today for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The red light to reflect - beyond / No steam that goes, none coming/ Farol and lighthouse - and no more; Only this island is that it is small/ The rest is all great; Everything deep, immense, in the amplitude / Eternal almost in desolation/ And supernatural in solitude. This is the portrait of a lighthouse of the Madeiran poet Cabral do Nascimento. But I could also talk to you about the popular poems of the North Wizard, Manuel Gonçalves, natural of a picturesque and pacato location on the north coast of Madeira, São Jorge. in this beautiful parish, located in the middle of laurissilva forest, limited to the north by the Atlantic Ocean and the south by mountains, two buildings stand out: the Mother Church of São Jorge, the largest baroque-style church in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and the Farol. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for many years the PSD has claimed the transfer of buildings annexed to this Lighthouse. These facilities have been unemployed for several years, abandoned and in advanced state of degradation. over time, and despite the successive resolutions of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the efforts made by successive regional governments, the facilities remain neglected, without any use or public use. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this initiative, we intend to put a final point in the abandonment of the premises of the Farol in Ponta da Vigia, we intend to give a new life to this beautiful place, where you can see the entire north coast of Madeira, from Porto Moniz to Ponta de São Lourenço. We believe that it is possible to create a new direction for this new Bridge of Madeira Island, which hides a small shrine and a legend. in the same way that a small Our Lady of Stone supports the huge cliff that fears not to fall down the slope below, it is possible a new face for the installations of the Farol of the Ponta de São Jorge. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one of many situations of abandonment of state buildings slightly across the country. The portrait of the country's heritage is black, there are too many returned real estate, too many underused buildings or in advanced state of degradation. Just one year ago, the PSD presented in this House an initiative that sought to enhance and take advantage of inactive public real estate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this PSD initiative has been plummeted and no alternative proposals have yet been approved. In 2014, the lighthouses of Portugal experienced a new dynamic with the creation of the Portuguese Military Tourism Association, which contributed much to the promotion, dissemination and preservation of the historical and military heritage. however, the State remains unable to effectively and efficiently manage its real estate. Thousands of abandoned, degraded and systematically vandalized buildings remain. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to waste our resources and waste the opportunities of our huge heritage legacy. The transfer of this property to the region's heritage may be an important sign of the reversal of this trend. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, may the Farol de São Jorge be our guide in defending our historical, cultural and social identity, a way to honor the collective memory of our history and to continue to contemplate the immensity of our horizon. [[PSD applause.]] During the intervention, Images 1Error were designed! The source of the reference was not found. that can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u65	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking about a real estate that belongs to the State, which is owned by the Ministry of National Defence, which is located in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. This is a heritage that had its justification, since it was intended to accommodate staff affected by the operation of the Farol de São Jorge, which is located in the municipality of Santana, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It happens that due to technological developments, the staff needed for the operation of this Farol was being reduced and that real estate was returned, presenting some state of degradation that will obviously continue to accentuate if the necessary measures are not taken for its recovery and profitability. Being in an autonomous region, it makes every sense that this real estate, which belongs to the direct administration of the State, to the Ministry of National Defence, is transferred to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, so that it can be used in a useful way, since, for the Ministry of National Defence, as you know, it is no longer useful. Certainly, even in the name of such a principle mentioned in this House, which is the principle of subsidiarity, the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Region will be in a better position to decide which use to give this real estate. So here, the alternative is clear: or we let it deteriorate, because it is not necessary for the Ministry of National Defence and, therefore, the Ministry will not make investments in a heritage that it does not need, or we give this heritage to whom it can effectively come to use it and give it a useful meaning for the people of the region where it is inserted. It is in this sense that the PCP Parliamentary Group also presents a draft resolution so that the real estate which is affected by the Farol de São Jorge, and which was built according to this Farol, can be transferred to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, so that the Regional Government, eventually in collaboration with local authorities—in this case, the council of Santana, which is where this heritage is located—can find a way of putting people to service and, in fact, giving them a use that can prevent their degradation, have a sense that is useful and respond to the needs of the surrounding population. That's what we propose. Given that there is an enormous consensus in this House, which is reflected in the fact that all parliamentary groups present draft resolutions on this subject, we believe that all can be approved and that one single text of consensus can be worked out.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u68	from our point of view, what is prestigious is that there is only one text that everyone can subscribe, rather than there are seven texts published, one after the other, and that essentially have the same objective. Therefore, this is our availability for these initiatives. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u69	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Rebelo of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate in the Assembly of the Republic, although unpublished, is not recent. The transfer to the Autonomous Region of Madeira of the buildings adjacent to the Farol de São Jorge is a subject that has merited special attention, I would say even, periodically, of the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, as well as of the City Hall of Santana, but also of Parliament. Despite several initiatives launched by the Legislative Assembly of Madeira throughout this time, only today, expressly, have we met the consensus needed in the Assembly of the Republic to adopt a resolution. We are therefore available, as Mr António Filipe has said here, to work on a common and unique text on this subject. In fact, the number of initiatives presented today in this House is proof of this same consensus. Only the Socialist Party did not present any initiative, but I suppose it also approves and supports this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u71	He introduced, he presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u72	Today it is widely demonstrated that the facilities surrounding the Farol de São Jorge are handed over to the abandonment, under absolutely devolved and degraded conditions, which do not correspond either to its heritage value or to the public interest. It seems clear to us that today's reality is different from the reality of the 1980s. These facilities were built at that time to support staff and families relocated to the Farol de São Jorge. Robotics and automation have brought significant changes to the organization of maritime traffic control. Of course, the Farol of São Jorge did not escape this dynamic, and what was an imperative in the 1980s is today voted for obsolescence. It is therefore necessary to reconfigure these facilities. I will go further: it becomes necessary to return utility and dignity to them. This is a capital asset with poor conditions, which we must take advantage of in a sustainable and socially responsible way. The CDS-PP therefore presents this initiative, recommending that the Government transfer the facilities annexed to the Farol de São Jorge to the administrative and heritage area of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in order to contribute to the re-qualification and re-suscitation of these facilities, with the aim of providing social care and services. This purpose has already been repeatedly claimed by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but also by the municipality of Santana and its President. Moreover, in recent years, the President of the Holy House had an audience with the Commander of the Maritime Zone of Madeira and one of the topics of discussion was the same, and even listed proposals by the Town Hall of Santana, in the sense of a solution that is fair to all sides. Finally, Mr President, faithful to the text of the draft resolution itself presented by the CDS — and I would like to quote: "Towards, without prejudice to other housing that meets the requirements for the installation of employees working there, these infrastructures for other purposes, including social action with the most needy, is the most secure value that can be conferred on them to contribute to social development and progress". [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u73	Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group presents this draft resolution in order to recommend to the Government, through the Ministry of National Defence, the transfer of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse of São Jorge, and today disabled by any function, to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Designed in 1948 and functional since 1959, the lighthouse of Ponta de São Jorge, in the north of Madeira, was automated in 1986. As a result of this evolution, the surrounding facilities, which once were used for various functions to support the activity of the lighthouse, ceased to play this role and were literally left to the abandonment, today finding themselves in an advanced state of degradation. The Portuguese lighthouses are under the supervision of the Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority of the Ministry of National Defence. As a result of the automation of this lighthouse, these facilities have no use at all at the service of the lighthouse, and, depending on the degradation they present, an attack on the beautiful landscapes of the northern coast of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u76	Thus, the Left Block Parliamentary Group recommends that it develop the mechanisms necessary for the transfer of these infrastructures to the domain of the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, with the exception that its future utility, after necessary recovery, is intended to preserve its history as well as for the public enjoyment of the local population and of all who visit it. And why are we doing this rescue? On the basis of previous transfers of heritage from the national state to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, we have considered three recent facts: first, the strength of Our Lady of the Conceição do Ilhéu—now unified by the construction of the port of Funchal—was built in the first half of the 17th century and handed over to the heritage of the Autonomous Region in 1992 with the aim of welcoming cultural activities. It was completely decharacterized, with a negative impact on the landscape, becoming a discotheque and restaurant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u77	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u78	Second, also in the early 90s of the last century, the fortress of Santiago, dated from the beginning of the 17th century, in the middle of the historical area of Funchal, was transferred to the regional heritage. There began to be installed the Museu de Arte Contemporânea da Madeira, meanwhile transferred to another space built of roots in 2015. The recovery of the building, the preservation of its history and the revitalization of the fortress continue to await political decision. Third, on 26 June 2014, the Council of Ministers decided to assign to Madeira the fortress of São João Baptista do Pico, commonly known as the fortress of Pico, considered one of the most emblematic monuments of the city of Funchal and the entire autonomous region. The Regional Government, at this time, said it wanted to adapt that space to the realization of cultural shows and initiatives capable of capturing the interest of several audiences. There was news and news about plans of intentions, contests of ideas were held, international competitions opened, and the then President of the Regional Government stated that «that situation gives to do a thousand and one thing». In 2018, almost four years later, we saw a fortress of closed doors, abandonment and advanced state of degradation, which is nothing. These three examples show that a simple transfer of state heritage to the Autonomous Region does not in itself mean the realization of changes hoped for at the beginning. This does not mean, however, that the Left Block Parliamentary Group no longer considers that it is the Regional Government that should actively manage these monuments, with greater maintenance effectiveness, preserving its history in memory, without misconfiguration, preserving its identity and role played over time, keeping them at the service of causes of public interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u79	Mr. Eduardo Ferraz, in his first speech in the Assembly of the Republic, wanted to say hello to him and to say that this time I did not say that I had to finish exactly because it was his first intervention. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lighthouse of São Jorge, located in the municipality of Santana, was built in 1959, and was soon equipped with a fixed and electrified optical apparatus in 1962. In addition to the lighthouse, facilities were erected for the accommodation of employees and their families who would be moved to the site in order to ensure the regular operation and continued maintenance of the lighthouse. The lighthouse and the facilities referred to were in the sphere of the Ministry of National Defence. However, the technological gearing conferred autonomy on the lighthouse, which led to the use of facilities for the accommodation of employees. These buildings were not subject to any kind of intervention in order to avoid progressive degradation resulting from decades of natural action of meteorological events, currently being in a state of harmful conservation. in a situation where these annexes are not necessary for the operation of the headlamp, being in a state of sharp degradation, all parties seated in the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira have expressed the intention to see the ownership of these infrastructures transferred to the heritage of the Autonomous Region. It is also stressed that the City Hall of Santana and its fregueries, particularly that of São Jorge, where the complex is located, present a lack of facilities for all types of activities, and that these buildings would be important to deduce the problem. The transfer of ownership refers only, and only, to the attachments of the lighthouse, and the lighthouse itself should remain the property of the State, with the Ministry of National Defence responsible for ensuring its maintenance and operation. We therefore consider that the annexes to the São Jorge lighthouse should be transferred to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in order to be intervened with works of recovery, conservation and remodeling, in order to give them a destination that is necessary and useful for the dynamization of those spaces for the benefit of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u81	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been widely explained by the parliamentary groups that have presented their proposals before us, there is in fact a set of buildings attached to the lighthouse of São Jorge, on the north coast of Madeira, which no longer have any practical use for the operation of the lighthouse. It seems to me therefore logical and consensual that these annexes pass the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It is not that we are talking about an exceptional architectural heritage or that it occupies a special place in Madeira's collective memory, but we are talking about a set of buildings attached to the lighthouse which, considering the technological evolution that is provided to its operation today, led to the building and its respective lands where they were no longer occupied, thus finding themselves abandoned. We are therefore convinced that the idea of moving these buildings into the region's heritage will be the best way for them not to degrade, thus giving them an advantage that is understood to be appropriate and of public interest. There have already been other examples of state buildings that, failing to be useful or showing themselves inadequate to the functions they were hosting, moved on to the regional heritage. I am reminding myself, as already mentioned here, of the fort of the Pico, in Funchal, until a short time ago occupied by the Navy and which has passed to the height of the regional government. It is true that it has not yet achieved its qualification and use, but we hope it will be soon. There are also other lighthouses that, like this one of São Jorge, are in similar situations and I am reminding myself, for example, of the lighthouse of the Ilhéu de Cima, in Porto Santo. Therefore, there are a number of buildings in the autonomous regions that still belong to the State, because they house institutions or bodies that naturally belong to them, have ceased to make sense of being in the custody of a distant state when they could be better exploited if they belonged to the heritage of the autonomous regions, and thus could be better cared for. But there are also other buildings that, despite careful care, have no longer made sense of being part of the national heritage, as is the palace of São Lourenço. I don't mean to say that if you wish to clear the Republic's representative in Madeira without an appropriate and appropriate alternative to your role...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u83	It's good to clarify!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u84	... but we felt that the Saint Lourenço Palace would better fulfill its role, the historical and symbolic role, if it was occupied, for example, by a museum space and interpretation of the role that Madeira had in the maritime epic of Portugal, rather than being occupied by a function that does not have the symbolic dimension of the palace. This proposal from the lighthouse of São Jorge should therefore serve as an example for a number of other situations in which the estate still belongs to the State in the autonomous regions should be kept to a more appropriate and useful destination for their respective regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u85	You have the floor again, Mr. João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u86	Mr President, I will be very brief because, when I made my speech recently, I made a mistake in saying that the Socialist Party had not put forward a proposal, which is not true. The Socialist Party has a proposal, so I intend to correct this step.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u87	You have the floor again, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to leave two final notes, being the first to register unanimity around the need to proceed to the transfer of the essential facilities from the São Jorge lighthouse to the Regional Government of Madeira, because in this way we are creating the conditions not only to recover and value a heritage that is currently completely abandoned but also because we have opened up the possibility of this same heritage to have some use for the people of the municipality of Santana, particularly for the populations of the parish of São Jorge. The second note is to say that, on the Green side, we have all the availability to obtain a joint text, to find a wording that can comply with everything that has been mentioned here today, and so there is only one common text for all parties instead of seven different texts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u89	Mrs. Members, we turn to point 4 of our agenda today, which consists in the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 642 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, Agualva-Sintra ( CDS-PP ), 1331 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the High School of Rest ( CDS-PP ), 1350 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2017 for the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar ( CDS-PP ), 1387 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the High School of the Rest of Lisbon ( The Greens), 1500 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( The Greens ), 1527 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the High School of the Rest ( BE ), 1537 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to adopt requalification measures at the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the Lumiar High Cycle ( PS ), 1538 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( PS ) and 1539 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the High School of Rest ( PS ). To begin the debate on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brings to the attention of the plenary the situation of three schools in the district of Lisbon, all of them needed intervention for requalification and each of them typifying a pattern of action that is going to be repeated a little throughout the country. First, see the case of EB 2, 3 of the High Lumiar. It was visited by all parliamentary groups, and also by the Under-Secretary of State, and we all became aware of the deep state of degradation of this school TEIP ( Educational Territories of Priority Intervention ). The Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2017 was approved, which recommended to the Government the urgent intervention in this school. How did the Government respond to this recommendation? In fact, he made a small intervention in school, of about €120 000, including VAT, in the spas, in the football field and in part of the kitchen. Nothing else has been done or scheduled. Then we have the case of the High School Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra. A 60-year-old school that has never had background works, with numerous needs in all buildings, be it classroom blocks, library, gym or recreation areas. A school on which the Regional Directorate for Education of Lisbon and Tejo Valley stated in 2016 that the urgent need for intervention is known and that an amount of EUR 3.5 million is recorded in the Budget, which is only awaiting authorization from the guardianship. The Education Commission received a delegation from this school and we were all aware of the state of degradation and also some parliamentary groups visited the school. What did the government do? It did not release such a statement that the regional director said he was registered and only small interventions were made on the roofs and on the floor of the gymnosports pavilion. Nothing else has been done or scheduled. Finally, the case of the High School of Rest was also reported for the worst reasons. First, because of a strike by the professors of Physical Education because of the lack of conditions to teach the discipline and then because of a plague of rats that forced the school to close for several days. in fact, the problems are much deeper than these and the school requires a complete intervention of which it has not yet been targeted. The situation was widely reported by the media and what did the government do? He promised to start works in June this year, which will last three years—i.e., they will go beyond the legislature—and that will only occur during the school breaks in the summer months. Thus, for this first summer it is announced the withdrawal of the fibration of the school roofs and the placing of new windows on pavilions 2 and 6. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question is that very little or nothing has been done, especially when compared with the government's voluntary speech and progress. You speak of the stopping of works during the previous government, always ignoring the presence of the troika, and also of the funds programmed in Portugal 2020, which are insufficient, but omit the low rates of implementation of the State budget investment relating to the education programme and never opt in their public choices for strengthening the State budget in what apparently structural funds do not allow. in the CDS we are very concerned to see that in the decree of decentralisation it seems that the mountain works are being postponed until the subject becomes the responsibility of the authorities, which, apparently, will not have guarded the corresponding funds. What we therefore call for in these three draft resolutions is that the Government will comply with what it announces, indeed speaking in these schools, and that it will make the budgetary choices which, today, have room to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u91	You now have the floor, representing the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens bring to discussion two draft resolutions, one aimed at urgent rehabilitation of the School of Restello, in Lisbon, and one related to the High School Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra, with exactly the same objective. Starting with the School of Restello, I mean that it is a school that has been presenting a set of problems over the past few years, which represents a clear damage to all its students and professionals and which in no way dignifies teaching in Portugal. This educational institution, where more than 1400 students study, works in a building that is almost 40 years old, which is in a state of degradation, since it has only known small interventions, this situation which compromises its normal functioning, as it is, in fact, publicly known. Some of the problems detected in this school concern the existence of blankets with asbestos, mouse pests—and it is recalled that, since the beginning of this school year, the school has already been forced to close twice, windows that do not close, the lack of heating and isolation in the rooms, the absence of a gymnastic pavilion, which causes the physical education classes to be held in improvised rooms, the poor state of preservation of the classrooms, an inadequate electrical system and laboratories that do not have the necessary equipment. With regard to the Physical Education classes, it should be noted that they have been suspended for two months due to the lack of conditions in the spas and the lack of lighting in the playing fields. In addition, meals are not made on site but, yes, in the dining room of another school of the same grouping. In fact, the Greens had the opportunity to meet with the direction and association of parents and teachers and to visit the school and we had the opportunity to see all these problems. In view of this situation, the Greens consider it most urgent to move forward with the rehabilitation and requalification works of the High School of Restelo, which are essential to the realization of the right to education and the guarantee of dignified conditions for all those who study and work there. As for the Ferreira Dias High School, in Agualva-Sintra, it should be noted that this school was built about 60 years ago, presenting evident signs of degradation and urgently needing to be re-qualified, since it has never suffered works. in fact, the absence of intervention in this school has led to a general state of degradation that compromises the safety and well-being of the entire school community and questions the learning process itself. There are several examples of this situation that in no way dignify teaching in our country: flat abatement; cracks and debris; lack of safety and hygiene conditions; physical education practice has been interrupted due to lack of conditions; water infiltrations; humidity; in rainy days water falls in many classrooms; lack of air conditioning in the rooms, which makes them very hot in summer and very cold in winter. In the face of all these problems, the educational community has, over the years, been claiming the requalification of this school, whose state has been worsening over time. However, despite the efforts of the educational community and the promises, until today the High School Ferreira Dias awaits the realization of the necessary retraining works, which have come to be promised successively but also successively postponed. For all this, the Greens feel it is urgent to begin the re-qualification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, which is indispensable for its proper functioning and safeguarding the health and well-being of the school community. Finally, on behalf of The Greens, I wanted to greet all the members in the direction of the various schools that today meet us, from the start of the Ferreira Dias High School, and greet them for the work that, over time, have been developing, despite the terrible working conditions they have faced. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u93	You have the floor to present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot fail to thank Mrs Ana Rita Bessa for having made such a precise description of the conditions under which the High School Ferreira Dias and the High School of Rest and the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Light. Your description is so precise that I can even say that it corresponds exactly to the situation of these schools last year, in the previous year and so on, see itself, while the honourable Member belonged to a party that was in the government, when these schools were already in this situation and already this description that the honourable Member has made here, now, was necessary. These three schools share some characteristics: firstly, they share school communities, school leaders who have fought for their requalification; secondly, they share the characteristic of having been victims of cuts made in public education, far above what was required by the troika, by the same parties who now swear love to the public school. These schools were victims of the cuts of the PSD and CDS, which did them by obligation, say, because the troika so commanded, but also by conviction, because they always wanted to devalue the public school. “Sacrifice yourself to public school! » We will never forget what Assumption Christians said: « Sacrifice the public school! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because of these cuts, these schools share certain characteristics of their physical conditions and degradation of the quality of teaching, because students cannot have physical education classes, because there is no gymnasium or because dressing rooms have no conditions; because they have fibrosis and asbestos coverage; because they have cold rooms and with rain in winter and rooms too hot in summer; because some of these schools have structural problems for which civil protection must intervene to help maintain the safety of students, as is the case of the school in Agualva-Sintra. Therefore, these schools are actually—and those who visit them, as we have visited, can see, the image of the shame that was the PSD Government and the CDS, of the cuts they made in public school and how they frozen all the works that were under way or planned. Repeat, all works that were under way or planned in schools were frozen by the PSD government. Two of them still share another feature: resolution projects that recommend their requalification have already been approved here. This is the case of the Ferreira Dias High School and the Lumiar High School, and it should be noted that in February and May 2017 came here to this Assembly, and were approved, draft resolutions for its requalification. In fact, that is why the Left Block does not put forward an initiative in this regard again, since the draft resolutions have already been adopted and must be respected for what the Assembly of the Republic has decided. However, we are presenting here a draft resolution that has to do with the requalification of the Restello Secondary School. The question is that — and we hope that this draft resolution will be adopted — the longer the requalification is delayed, the more necessary and that this Assembly of the Republic has already approved, the more the state of degradation of these schools becomes the image of a government that prefers to maintain debts to the public school to stop paying for the deficit that is demanded by Brussels. The longer we delay the recovery and the investment needed in these schools the more they cease to be the image of the shame of the government that has cut and become the image of the shame of the government that does not want to invest in maintaining a deficit above what is committed to and which is the commitment to Brussels. Therefore, the traumas of the previous government are many and deep, but they are no longer enough to justify the present. And if you know how to hear again pledges of love to public school—and we know that on that side of the hemicycle they are always foolish—more than that, you need to turn these love oaths into investment, because that is what the public school needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u95	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party now speaks through Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group begins by stressing the importance of the issue and the importance for these educational communities of the Assembly of the Republic to place and reiterate once again the urgency and importance of the requalification processes. however, we cannot face this debate by not looking at the initiatives that the CDS presents as precisely an exercise in which it reiterates the idea that « forget all that we have not done and at the same time ignore and do not talk about anything they are doing». This corresponds to the approach they face in this debate. We know that schools continue to have very serious structural problems, even because they are of the same generation of schools whose life is already exceeded, they share problems with the level of fibrosis and structural problems common to constructions of that period, they share the absence of the same equipment, which at the time, of urgency, in which we built schools we could not build, but what is true is that there was a time when, indeed, these projects existed, these requalifications were planned, these requalification processes were on the table and they disappeared from the map. But they did not disappear from the map by chance, they disappeared from the map by an option consciously taken by the previous government. Obviously, it does not satisfy anyone that we exchange crackers on who is more or less responsible for the school to be late in its requalification. Now, what we also believe has to be a serious exercise in the way we view this debate is to look at what we have approved and we are going to check on the ground what is being executed. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa referred to the resolutions adopted here, in particular the case of the High Lumiary High School, but in 2017 half of the interventions recommended here have been implemented and the remaining half are expected to be implemented in what is planned for this year. The honourable Member says they're minor repairs. No, Mrs Deputy, it is an investment like that school had no more than a decade ago, in the rehabilitation of areas with fibrosis and areas with infiltrations, in the dining areas, and in structural problems of the operation of sports equipment. Is this enough? Does this satisfy us? Don't! But is this inaction and total absence and worry about the site? It's not! And I invite the CDS to put his hand into consciousness and look at what he hasn't done for four years, also looking at what, even if it isn't what we want, is actually being done, has been done and will continue to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These schools are key schools. We speak of a school, in this case that of the Upper Lumiar, in a fundamental territory where the school should have an integral role of the community, in which it should be a social elevator and its lack of conditions does not allow it. In Agualva it is a school of reference, a school of historical, central, in the municipality of Sintra, which is fundamental to its rehabilitation and which is not being able to carry out its mission. As for the Rest School, this is a school that serves a very heterogeneous population and that effectively discusses each day with these difficulties of operation. But there is a difference that is well demonstrated in what it is possible to do: what it is possible to do is not adjourned! It is not left for another occasion and it is only timed because, at a certain point, we understand that our strategy is different and does not put public school as a priority. Mrs Deputy, the requests from schools throughout the country that are referred to here every week are a direct inheritance of degradation that occurred due to incuria and total investment stoppage. It will take a long time to solve the structural problems that schools have and it will take even more time to make rehabilitation, because we did not do it at the time when it was fundamental. But, above all, I would say today, aware of this fact, we can safely approve the resolutions knowing that: there is a government that is concerned about placing money for investment in these schools, as there has been no concern for these investments for four years, even if they are beyond what we would like. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u97	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the educational communities that are associated with each of these schools here today, in discussion, particularly the direction of the High School Ferreira Dias, here present, to whom I also thank the coming to the Assembly of the Republic, but also all the educational communities of all schools in the district of Lisbon that need urgent work in their schools, and are not few. The cases that have been brought here today to the discussion are not unknown from the PCP and have counted on the action and intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party. We did not wake up today for these problems, many of which existed during the previous PSD/CDS government and did not know the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u100	But many of them also existed even before 2011, in the PS government, and successive PSD or PS governments, in fact have given no solution to many of these problems that are here on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u102	We have an opportunity here to do so, it is enough that there is a will to do so. The truth is that the PCP has asked questions, has presented legislative initiatives, even a draft resolution, approved in 2016, for the construction of a new EB 2 / 3 of the Alto do Lumiar. But more than lack of legislative initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, have lacked political will to solve these problems, and that is what we want it to happen. If it is true that the Ferreira Dias High School, the Rest School and the EB 2, 3 High Lumiar need urgent answers – and we know that – are not the only ones with serious problems in the Lisbon district. Therefore, we have presented a draft resolution that advocates requalification, urgent construction of works or even, in cases where this is justified, the construction of public schools in the district of Lisbon. It is that the Lumiar High School cannot be answered either, the EB 2, 3 painter Almada Negroes, nor the José Gomes Ferreira High School, nor the Portela High School, nor the EB 2, 3 de Vialonga, nor can one continue to drag the execution of the works at the Second School of Trucks, at the Art School António Arroio, at the Basic School Park of Nations. These communities, these here, those there, have waited too long. Therefore, what we propose is, in fact, that these works be done, that a survey be made on what needs are, in conjunction with the educational communities, that a list be sent out of all schools in the district of Lisbon which have been the target of requalification works since the school year 2015 / 2016 and of all that will be the target of intervention until the end of this school year, that, with their respective educational communities, all schools that need requalification works and are identified the construction needs of new schools, and all this as an urgent matter. Surely we all receive complaints from teachers, educators, school directors, students, school workers here in the Assembly of the Republic, saying that schools have bad conditions and that they all need urgent interventions to solve their problems. The CFP will certainly be giving voice to that just claim and we will do everything we can to ensure that the problems are solved as quickly as possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u103	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group by welcoming the parliamentary groups presenting their initiatives, welcoming them and noting that we are reviewing the concerns that are shown here. In fact, it is not a novelty, as has already been said, that there are a number of schools throughout the country that feel the urgent need for the retraining of their equipment and that this requalification is absolutely essential for the maintenance of the dignity of each of these educational communities. We have had this discussion here, in plenary, we have had this discussion within the Commission and today we are presenting initiatives concerning three specific situations: to the High School Ferreira Days in Agualva, Sintra, to the High School of Rest and to the EB 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar. Of course, I also associate myself with the observance of the board of the Ferreira Dias High School, which today accompanies us in this discussion. Only those who do not know the reality of Sintra's school — which I know well because I studied in one — do not know how difficult it is to maintain the dignity of a school that is of reference, even if all things were working with proper normality, even more so with the urgent need for intervention that this school feels. The truth is that — the PSD has already said it several times and wants to reaffirm it — this is a situation that occurs throughout the country and, being urgent for the maintenance of this dignity of public school, with which we all here fill our mouths to brag about, many of us are quick to say that the others have not done it. [[PSD applause.]] What is certain is that, in these three cases, the needs of deep works are shared and not enough — no, Mr President! — the small remedies that are being made and which are, many of them, the result of the will and dedication of the educational communities in which they are inserted. at the Ferreira Dias High School, and also at the Rest High School, being sure that they are two reference schools and that they were recognized as being in need of intervention by the School Park — which then did not work for the reasons we all know and which had to do with the absolute financial irresponsibility that was around the School Park — we all know the situation, all the responsible entities know the situation and the two chambers, which are socialist cameras, certainly have been able to tell the government what it needs to do. The Member of the Left Block has come to say that the CDS has done here an exercise in which the CDS and PSD make vows of foolish love—that was the expression—when they say that requalification is necessary. Mrs Deputy, you are part of a party that says it is conditional on government action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u105	That's why we presented the projects! Where is the PSD project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u106	So, what I want to ask Mrs Deputy is whether, in the conditioning of government action two and a half years ago, she could not have assumed as a condition the requalification of these schools? [[PSD applause.]] The truth is this: we all worry here, but none of us are more concerned than the school community and the PSD does not have that claim. If it is true that the school community understands that the School Park was the financial irresponsibility it was, it understands that financial irresponsibilities such as the School Park resulted in the moment of austerity that conditioned the action of the previous government, but it cannot understand how this government — the government that turned the austerity page in 2015 — has not yet managed to requalify any of the schools that need a substantive intervention in two and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u107	Go beyond the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u108	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u109	Therefore, if Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Centeno say, with great force, that they have changed, that they make an irreprehensible financial management, that they have money to make the investments they want and continue to budget—and even in the report of the State Budget of 2018 it was noted that almost 50 % of captivations in the area of education—what really is the priority?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u110	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u111	It's just that it doesn't matter to advertise or come here saying that it's the fault of the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u112	You can argue with them! You can argue with Centeno!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u113	It does not point to the Socialist Party, Madam Member, because you are also part of the conditioning of this government, as they like to say. This is of little importance to the school community, more important to say that we live in times of austerity, that we assume, and what we want is to see this matter solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u114	Madam Member, don't make me take your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u115	What is the plan that the Government has to respond to and what is so much of the responsibility of the Socialist Party as it is of the parties that support it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u116	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very telegraphic way, I stress the importance of Mrs Ana Mesquita's contribution to the debate, noting the many schools beyond these three which are listed here today and which are waiting precisely for an intervention, because it is very revealing of the following: the state of degradation to which we have come leads today, faced with problems with this scale in many of the schools in which they have to intervene, the priority is indeed given to urgent interventions. And there are no small interventions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! A short time ago, they said: "good, a few migalh girls for schools." in fact, in these three cases, we are talking about an investment that in two years exceeds 600 000 euros, more than half a million euros in all these three schools. The problem here is another one. It is that the scale of urgency is indeed not compatible with the mobilization of the deep requalifications that are necessary. And with all due respect, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, I would say that it is not done in two and a half years and a process of profound rehabilitation at the same time as trying to stop the daily difficulties of schools. So, in conclusion, what this government is obviously doing is the two things that the previous government has not done: it is to run with urgent responses in these cases, in what is later in these schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u118	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. The second thing is, in fact, to put the requalification planning on the axes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u120	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u121	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, although she agrees with me that it is really necessary for the CDS to intervene, even because the Government which the honourable Member supports, and to whom the State Budget is approved every year, has been — paraphrasing its intervention — futile in its consequences. Therefore, I am sure that, with so much concern with the public school, the Left Block will accompany the CDS resolution projects. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u122	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of point 4 of the agenda with the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 642 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 1331 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 1350 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 1387 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( The Greens ), 1500 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( The Greens ), 1527 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( BE), 1537 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ), 1538 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( PS ) and 1539 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ). We now move on to point 5, with the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 716 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Promotes the participation of workers in safety and health at work ( First Amendment to Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September establishing the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work ) ( PCP ), 509 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Add the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with rules for the repair of accidents at work, making the second amendment to the Labour Code and the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009, 4 September ( PCP ), 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to the victims of work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August ( PCP ) and 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the scheme for the repair of occupational accidents and diseases by the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September ( PCP ), in general of draft resolutions Nos 826 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national programme for the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases ( CFP ), 1485 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the right of workers in public service to fair reparation in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease and to consider the appropriate mechanisms to ensure effective and effective judicial protection ( PCP ) and 1138 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the legislative framework applicable to harassment at work in relation to occupational accidents and diseases ( BE ) of Bill No 842 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption from costs of workers in actions for recognition of the right or legally protected interest in occupational accidents and diseases ( Tenth amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Fifth Amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November ) ( BE), in general, and draft resolutions No 1541 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases and to promote health and safety at work ( BE ), 1524 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve psychosocial risks and psychological health problems at work ( CDS-PP ) and 1535 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases ( The Greens ). Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party by welcoming the representatives of the workers, the representative organizations of the workers present here, as well as the leaders of the National Association of Disabled Persons Snistrados at Work, who are also present here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to attend this discussion. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] On 28 April the National Day for Prevention and Safety at Work, instituted by a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, was signed, as a result of a proposal from the CFP, and the same resolution provided for the implementation of an information, training and prevention campaign aimed at reducing work accidents, annual presentation to the Assembly of data on labour deficiency, also taking into account initiatives taken to prevent accidents at work and future measures. Data from 2017 indicate that in 2015 more 208 000 work accidents occurred, of which 161 resulted in the death of the worker. We do not turn off accidents at work, occupational diseases, safety and health issues at work of existing working conditions: precariousness, working rhythms imposed and their intensification or deregulation of working hours, and on all these matters the CFP has intervened and fought to restore rights and guarantee better working conditions. The right to safety, hygiene and health at work is a social right of workers that obliges them to respect the right to physical integrity, to prevent accidents, to prevent occupational diseases, to work-related diseases and to promote health at work. We therefore present this set of initiatives. We propose better conditions for the participation of workers and their representative organisations in the definition of safety and health conditions, with improvements in the legal regulation of the electoral process of representatives of workers of safety and health services at work, disbursing this process and bringing closer to what is done in the field of workers' committees, deepening the freedom of organisation and self-management of these representative organisations and adapting procedures for the full exercise of workers' rights. We present proposals that improve the conditions for repair of accidents at work, amending the rule requiring compulsory dismissal of pensions due to permanent disability, extending the scope of compensation for damage suffered in the accident at work, in order to provide for all property and non-patrimonial damage and improving the social protection of workers affected by occupational accidents or occupational disease. We do not forget the employees of the Public Administration, for whom we also present and insist on solutions for a just repair in case of an accident of service or occupational disease. regarding professional diseases, it is important to remember that musculoskeletal lesions are the main professional disease, affecting thousands and thousands of workers from different sectors and professional activities, and should also be considered in this context the situations of stress, depression and anxiety. We also address concrete proposals to this reality. Recognizing the work carried out by the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons in support of these workers and their families, we propose that 1% of the fines applied for breach or non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work and repair of work accidents be addressed to this Association. Worklessness and occupational diseases are not inevitable, can and should be prevented and combated, with a view to their eradication. The CFP proposals go so far, correcting injustices and guaranteeing labour and social rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u124	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are, every year, around 200 000 accidents at work in Portugal. The construction sector and the manufacturing industries are in the forefront of serious accidents. Some of these accidents are fatal — according to last year's data, in our country, 115 people died working. Work accidents are not the only expression of the damage inflicted on workers by the conditions in which they exercise their profession, hundreds of thousands of people suffer from health problems that have their origin at work. For example, we speak of the tendencies of cleaning workers, who, every day, here in the Assembly of the Republic, as in schools, hospitals, banks or public transport, aspire to the passageways, clean the secretaries or glass, empty the trash cans. We're talking about the diseases of the call-center operator or who spends the whole day in front of a computer. We are talking, for example, about the stone workers, who, a little more than a month ago, in the Committee on Labour, spoke to us about the hardness of their work and how the dust released through stone destroys their lungs and does not let them breathe, how the vibration of the compressors moves their muscles until they can get up. We also speak of another type of suffering, increasingly common in society such as ours: what results from the risks and diseases of the psychological forum, such as depression, anxiety or burnout, caused by the intensification of working rhythms, the violence of forms of precariousness and management by fear, the repeated practices of personal devaluation of workers, moral harassment or psychological torture at work. We talk about those who work for shifts and nights, with the cycles of sleep exchanged, to whom work condemns more diseases, such as cancer, less time with friends and family and a shorter life expectancy. Professional diseases are a cross-sectional phenomenon, although they are unevenly distributed according to sex, class segment, forms of work organization. And they are associated with the deregulation of work and schedules, the deprotection that results from having a system of collective working relations that was undermined by precariousness and individualization and a lower ability to prevent risks. Therefore, prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases must be done in many fronts. That is why the Left Block proposals aim to contribute. First, improve the production of information so that the State is able to monitor the incidence of occupational diseases and the information already contained in the Single Report. Secondly, recognize the ongoing change in the forms of work organization and update the list of occupational diseases, including the diseases of the psychic forum explicitly and also providing for the presence of professionals in the psychosocial area in the health and safety teams at work. in the case of harassment, for example, we approved in this Parliament a legislative initiative that determines that the repair of the emerging damage to occupational diseases resulting from the practice of harassment is the responsibility of the employer. In fact, this was a fundamental factor in the dissuasion capacity of this norm. So far, the government has not regulated the norm, which calls into question its effectiveness. We also want, thirdly, to give density to prevention and awareness-raising, particularly through a public campaign, in which the Working Conditions Authority will have a fundamental but not unique role. Fourthly, we want to strengthen the way in which the Working Conditions Authority acts in monitoring the rules on prevention and punishment of abuses. Fifthly, we want to ensure access to justice, through the exemption of costs to all victims, regardless of whether they are represented by the Public Prosecutor's Office, by a union or a constituted lawyer, as in the past. Sixthly, we want to strengthen the value of additional benefits for those who have been injured. They are simple and fair proposals, which are in addition to the various proposals presented here by the CFP, which we are accompanying, and which, by not solving everything, recognize the centrality of this problem and the urgency of giving it concrete answers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u126	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents, within this agenda item, a proposal for a recommendation to the Government to take measures to improve psychosocial risks and psychological health problems at work. We understand that the legislation that protects and regulates safety and health at work is, as a rule, balanced and manages to protect its purposes. however, it is an obligation for political power to always pay attention to the need to improve any legislative diploma in order to safeguard new needs arising from reality. in this sense, we note that, both in the law and in real practice, the psychological health of workers has very insufficient attention. This is a matter which we know is of the greatest importance and which affects families, workers, Portuguese people with a large dimension that everyone has to worry about. We know that the level of antidepressants consumption in Portugal is too high. In four years, it doubled and the truth is that the latest data from 2017 reveal that, even after the crisis, of the years of the crisis, which certainly led to a worsening of the psychological lack of health, these levels did not decrease in 2016. On the other hand, the latest data from the World Health Organization tell us that in Portugal the level of suicides is higher than the average in the world. It is therefore with great concern that we accompany this reality. In Portugal, it is estimated that one in five workers suffers from psychological health problems and that workers lack 1, 3 days a year due to these problems. in total, the loss of productivity can cost companies 329 million per year. There are several studies that claim that performing prevention actions to causes of occupational stress, intervening in psychological health problems and promoting psychological health at the workplace can translate into a set of benefits. That is why we believe that it is time for political and economic actors to prepare responses to this situation. There is no need to change legislation in a hurry, but it is important that the Government first raise the situation of psychosocial risk and psychological health problems at work. It is then important to promote an extended debate, in particular, including in the context of social consultation, so that the possibility and convenience of amending labour legislation in this area are finally put in place. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u128	To present the latest initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The physical security and health of workers is a fundamental principle of the democratic rule of law which our Constitution not only enshrines as high or includes in the list of fundamental rights. Even so, on average annually, more than 200,000 work accidents occur in the country and an indeterminate number of occupational diseases, as a result of directly or indirectly inappropriate and inappropriate working conditions. According to data registered by the Labour Conditions Authority, only 115 people died in Portugal in accidents at work, resulting in 315 injuries with gravity. Work accidents are thus a problem and a social drama that affects many workers and their families and must be seen as an absolute priority, until, in the last four years, they have lost their lives more than 500 workers and about 1300 have been seriously injured. If we go back to the beginning of the century, we find that since 2000 the number of occupational losses has risen to 3.5 million, a period during which, unfortunately, more than 4300 workers have lost their lives. But, like work accidents, the diseases related to professional activity are a source of extreme suffering and loss in the world of work. It happens that while work accidents in general have an immediate and visible effect on the physical integrity of the worker, many occupational diseases, such as cancers caused by professional causes, are characterized by long periods of latency, which is therefore difficult to recognize until the clinical manifestation of their symptoms, such as, in fact, the diseases resulting from exposure to asbestos or radon environments, which is the case of workers in uranium mines. And although occupational diseases are annually responsible for the death of six times more people than work accidents, they remain largely invisible, being regarded by the International Labour Organisation as a hidden epidemic. in fact, some of these diseases, difficult to recognize and prove as professional disease, due to the very diffuse and diverse causes, but also originated from other broader factors related to working time and the nature of labor bonds, should be equalized when we talk about workers' health problems. The pace and intensification of work, the prolongation of hours and the deregulation of work, the pressure and productivity goals imposed or imposed by companies, the precariousness, with situations, sometimes to remember the day, together with the reduced social protection and low wages, lead to a degradation of the physical, psychic and intellectual capacities of workers, enhancing or causing, so many times, the emergence of occupational diseases and occupational accidents. And despite the precariousness of work and working time being pointed out as the most important indirect factors of professional risk, which is, in fact, proven by several studies, this fact did not inhibit several governments from potentiating this risk, through the various changes made to the Labour Code. at the contractual level, workers with precarious links are more exposed to professional risks, enjoy, as a rule, less protection in safety and disease at work and do not have access to the same knowledge, training and professional experience, which naturally enhances their exposure to risk. Professional diseases themselves, but also associated with reduced social protection, also become a public health problem. And these are exactly the problems that the Greens now want to minimize with the proposal they bring to discussion. I conclude by greeting, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, all representatives of the workers and also the National Association of Workless Deficiencies, who are here today, with us, in the galleries, to attend this debate. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u130	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today a number of initiatives concerning accidents at work and occupational diseases, and it is now important to highlight two aspects. First, it is important to say that health and safety at work are determining factors to ensure decent work, and decent work in order to guarantee quality of life for workers. That is why this matter concerns us all, not only the political decision makers but also employers and workers. This Parliamentary Group understands that the culture of prevention is a determining and decisive factor in combating labour inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u133	For this reason, we also take this time to praise the awareness-raising campaigns that have been carried out over the years by the Labour Conditions Authority, which, together with employers, with workers, have been raising awareness of how to combat the bad work practices and, in this way, how to combat the labor weakness. Prevention is, in fact, an objective which should guide us whenever we talk about these matters. Where the strengthening and intensification of this type of prevention is involved, the prevention of occupational injury, the PSD shall be present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u134	It should also be said that, when there is an accident at work or a occupational disease, the Constitution itself guarantees and ensures — that is how it should be and so the PSD defends and will continue to defend — a fair and adequate repair for the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u136	On the other hand — and this is the second note that we would like to leave here on this issue — over the years, the issue of health and safety at work has been changed, contrary to what seems to make some initiatives put forward here. These amendments have met the need to adjust and make the law more balanced with regard, precisely, to prevention, with regard to repair. We do not agree, and we cannot allow it to be proposed appreciable amendments, without criteria and above all without a broad social debate. It is essential that, when an amendment is made, in particular, to the Labour Code, as is proposed here too, this amendment results in enormous weights and broad social debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of initiatives on this subject are currently under consideration by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, which shows the lack of rigour in some of the proposals presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u137	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u138	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even to conclude, I would like to say that this Parliamentary Group agrees with some of the initiatives proposed here, in particular with regard to the intensification and strengthening of the ACT to ensure greater prevention between employers and workers and also with regard to the creation of measures that may reduce psychosocial risks and psychological health problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u139	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. However, it is essential to reiterate, and to be well-sensed, that prevention is a determining factor in ensuring a decent job for all workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u141	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we would like to welcome all other parliamentary groups that have put forward proposals on a fundamental issue for labour legislation such as safety and health at work. In fact, safety and health issues at work, insofar as they aim to control the risks associated with work and also the protection and maintenance of the worker's physical, mental and social well-being, today play a role as a rampart in labour law, in particular as regards the protection of the fundamental rights of workers, but also in terms of the competitiveness and modernisation of the organisation of enterprises. For this reason, we have seen a number of initiatives put forward by the Government, shared by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in consultation with the social partners, to find the best solutions to the concrete problems we now see in this area of labour law. however, always with the concern of finding solutions that, in particular, improve the solutions already in force, without prejudice to the balance of the parties, insofar as labour law is a law that balances the interests of workers, the interests of employers—in which both have rights and duties—and also with participation, in particular in the area of accidents at work, of insurers, which have a very important role, insofar as, as you know, to defend the interests of workers, labour insurance is mandatory and subject to rigorous enforcement mechanisms that have so far worked adequately to ensure the legitimate interests of workers. National legislation in this area has evolved greatly under the influence of European legislation. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it was due to a set of Community directives that introduced modern solutions in Portugal, solutions that could in fact influence the interests of the parties in the field of safety and health at work and also in the area of responsibility for accidents at work. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the importance of the work to be done at the centre of social consultation and also within the framework of collective bargaining, so that the parties involved in this work relationship can find the best solutions to the problems identified in these matters. The position the PS Parliamentary Group will take under these 12 legislative initiatives will be directed, above all, by three fundamental ideas: firstly, to ensure the balance of the solutions that currently apply to safety and health and also to accidents at work; secondly, to adapt the justice of the solutions proposed to the specific problems that need to be solved; thirdly, the concrete results of the solutions proposed by the various legislative initiatives presented in the operation of the various legal mechanisms currently in force. The votes we will take will always be in recognition of the importance of this matter in defending the interests of workers, but also in defending the interests of the other stakeholders, and it is certain that the PS Parliamentary Group will continue to...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u143	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u144	... always in consultation with their social partners, to defend the finding of solutions that best respond to the problems that affect this important sector of labour law today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u145	You have the floor, for an intervention and to close the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is, of course, available to deepen the discussion on this subject, but there are some realities that we cannot fail to mention. In fact, it is important to ensure better participation of workers and their representative organisations in safety and health at work, because this participation will be a closer response to the needs of workers. It is the workers who carry for a lifetime the consequences of the occupational diseases they suffer from...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u148	... in the exercise of your professional activity. It is the workers and their families who suffer the profound consequences of a work accident, often with irreversible results in their lives. What we propose here is to correct injustices and take significant steps in preventing, combating accidents at work, occupational diseases, with a view to their eradication. There is availability of all other parliamentary groups to take this same path with the CFP that we will be here to continue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u149	With this intervention, we close the fifth item on the agenda. on the sixth point, without time for discussion, resolution No 68/ XIII ( 3 ) is scheduled. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of India to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters ( signed in Lisbon on 11 September 1998 ), signed in Lisbon on 24 June 2017. We turn to the last item on our agenda, thus entering the voting period. [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic framework records 202 presences, to which are added 6 of the Members. Members Margarida Mano and Pedro Roque, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Catarina Marcelino and João Galamba, of the PS Parliamentary Group, José Manuel Pureza, of the BE Parliamentary Group, and Assumption Cristas, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, making 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Vote No 527 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Barroso as a world agricultural heritage presented by the CDS-PP, will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u150	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization has distinguished the genuineness of the territory of the Barroso region from the traditional way of working the land, treating cattle and helping its inhabitants. Barroso is thus the first Portuguese territory to integrate the Important System of World Agricultural Heritage and one of the first to be approved in Europe, in recognition of the genuineness of the customs, products and systems of traditional agriculture in this transmontane region, which has remarkable characteristics at the level of diversity, traditional knowledge, biodiversity, landscape, socio-economic model and, above all, resilience to human, climate and environmental changes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the Barroso region for its distinction and all those involved in the candidacy process. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u151	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It will now be read by Secretary Emilia Santos vote No 528 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From greeting to the Portuguese delegation to the World Championship of Acrobatic Gynastics presented by the PSD. You have the floor, Secretary Emília Satos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u152	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « in the World Championship of Acrobatic Gymnastics that took place in Antwerp at the beginning of April of this year, the Portuguese delegation obtained its best ranking of always in this competition, participating with a total of 39 gymnasts of six national clubs, one of the largest participating delegations. at the end of the competition in the fifth place of the general table, the Portuguese delegation, which marked presence in three finals, well highlighted the qualities and merit of its athletes, who entered their name in the gallery of world champions. This result, having its maximum exponent in the participation of the three athletes composed of Beatriz Carneiro, Rita Ferreira and Bruna Gonçalves, of the Acro Clube da Maia, who have won the gold medal by groups in the 13-19 year round, dignsifies the national sport and is further proof of the excellent work developed by the Portuguese Federation of Gynastics, which has accumulated a series of distinctions of relevance in recent years. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes, in particular, the participating athletes, but also, through the Portuguese Federation of Gynastics, the clubs and sports agents involved in the preparation of those, without forgetting the decisive role played by their families, often decisive and insufficiently highlighted pillar of these achievements. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u153	We shall then proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Florence ( Italy ) ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1511 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2018 - 2022 and National Reform Plan ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1513 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the Stability and Budget Implementation Programme comply with the deficit limits set out in the approval of the State budget for 2018 and that the registered budget breaks ( BE) be returned to society. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1517 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1518 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By an alternative of more growth and better state ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u154	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u155	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u156	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the four previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u157	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u158	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u159	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u160	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to these four votes, the PSD would like to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u161	Of course, Mr. Deputies. It will do so immediately before the end of the session. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1514 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by affirming Portugal's sovereign right to decide its future and by responding to the problems of the country ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1434 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates 21 March as National Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members have submitted applications by BE, PSD, PCP and PS respectively, requesting the release of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 707 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association ( BE ), of draft resolution No 1519 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Acting for a Demarcated Douro Region with future ( PSD ) and the projects of lein.o 840 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the statutes of the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 841 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes ( PS ). Let us vote together on those demands. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All legislative initiatives fall to 7. the Commission for 60 days. We now vote together on draft resolutions Nos 1327/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transfer of facilities to the Farol of Ponta de São Jorge to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( The Greens), 1366 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer to the estate of the Autonomous Region of Madeira of the buildings annexed to the Lighthouse of São Jorge ( PSD ), 1353 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of the buildings annexed to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CFP ), 1525 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the ownership of buildings adjacent to the São Jorge Lighthouse to the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ), 1529 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the transfer of the facilities annexed to the Lighthouse from Ponta de São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( BE ), 1516 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the infrastructure attached to the Lighthouse of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PAN ) and 1540 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the transfer of deactivated buildings annexed to the Farol of S. Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u163	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u164	Mr President, it is to propose that a common text of these draft resolutions be found, since it makes no sense to publish seven resolutions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u165	That is always the effort that is required of its committee and certainly there will be no great difficulty in this case. We shall continue with the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 642 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, Agualva-Sintra ( CDS-PP ), 1350 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2017 for the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar ( CDS-PP ), 1387 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the High School of the Rest of Lisbon ( The Greens), 1527 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the High School of the Rest ( BE ), 1537 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to adopt requalification measures at the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycles of Alto do Lumiar ( PS ), 1538 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( PS ) and 1539 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the planned works and the establishment of measures for the requalification of the High School of Rest ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolutions Nos 1331/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government urgent in the rehabilitation and requalification of the High School of Rest ( CDS-PP ) and 1500 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent retraining of the High School Ferreira Dias, in Agualva-Sintra ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] We shall now vote on the request by the PCP, which is down to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 60 days of the projects of lein.o 716 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotes the participation of workers in safety and health at work ( First Amendment to Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 establishing the Legal Scheme for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work ) ( PCP ), 509 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Add the National Association of Workless Disabled Persons as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with rules for the repair of accidents at work, making the tenth amendment of the Labour Code and the first amendment of Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September ( PCP ), 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August ( PCP ) and 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases by the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Legislative initiatives fall to 10. the Commission for a period of 60 days. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 826 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national programme for the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1485/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the right of workers in public service to a fair remedy in the event of an accident at work or occupational disease and to consider the appropriate mechanisms to ensure effective and effective judicial protection ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1138/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the legislative framework applicable to harassment at work in relation to occupational accidents and diseases ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, in relation to draft law No 842 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption from the costs of workers in actions for recognition of the right or legally protected interest in employment accidents and occupational diseases ( Tenth amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Fifth Amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November ( BE) ), we shall vote on an application by the author of the initiative, which shall be lowered to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote for a period of 60 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission for the period of 60 days. We now vote on draft resolution No 1541 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases and to promote health and safety at work ( BE ). The PS was asked to vote first on points 2 and 6 and then on the remaining points. Let us vote on points 2 and 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u167	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u168	Mr President, I would like to ask that items 2 and 6 be voted on separately as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u169	Madam Member, you agreed that you had notified me before I started the vote. Let us then first vote point 2 of draft resolution No 1541 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on point 6 of that motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on points 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1524 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve psychosocial risks and psychological health problems at work ( CDS-PP ). The CFP calls for point 3 to be voted on separately from the other points. Let us then vote first on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall now vote on paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1535 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases ( The Greens ). The PS calls for the joint vote on points 1 and 2 and then for the vote on point 3. Let us vote on points 1 and 2. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on paragraph 3 of that project. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 68/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of India to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters ( signed in Lisbon on 11 September 1998 ), signed in Lisbon on 24 June 2017. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the Abstaining from BE and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 369 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a « transparency contract with future pensioners » : information on the pension expectation to be received when reaching the legal retirement age ( CDS-PP ). The CFP requests that the remaining points be voted on first and then put to the vote. We shall vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u170	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u171	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u172	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a declaration of vote on this draft resolution submitted by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u173	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 611 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of urgent measures on the river Tejo, between Chamusca and Golegã ( PS ), 565 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to the construction of a new crossing between Golegã and Chamusca ( BE ), 1167 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure efficient traffic management and management at the « Ponte da Chamusca » ( CDS-PP ), 1248 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — by eliminating the difficulties of circulation between the municipalities of Chamusca and Golegã through Ponte João Joaquim Isidro dos Reis ( PCP ) and 1376 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on accessibility in Chamusca and Golegã councils and standardization of road traffic ( PSD ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u174	Mr António Leitão Amaro now has the floor to give an oral vote on the vote on draft resolutions Nos 1511, 1513, 1517, 1518 and 1514 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have voted on legislative initiatives on the Stability Programme and two findings have been withdrawn. Firstly, most left-wings are united in defending this Stability Programme and this path, i.e. united in defending the greatest tax burden, united in sacrifice to public services, united in lack of reforms, united in slowing economic growth. It is true that we have heard the Left Block, the PCP and sometimes the Socialist Party crying for a few tenths. Even this afternoon, we have heard them ask for more of this and that, but when the time comes to vote, they are all with this Stability Programme, with this fiscal consolidation, with this strategy and with this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u177	We do not forget to have seen the Deputies of the Left Block, on social networks, publishing the following hashtag: « We are not all Centeno! » and protest against cuts in culture and against problems in health centers. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u178	I'm asking the ladies. Members to keep quiet so that we can hear the statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u179	Yes, sir. Members, also the Left Block. From today on, your hasthag is this: «We are tens of crocodiles». Or another hasthag: "Finally, in the vote we are all Centeno". They're all responsible for this path! Another finding is that there is an alternative, and the Portuguese have an alternative. The largest Portuguese party, the PSD, not only rejects this path and this Stability Programme, as it proposes a different path in budgetary consolidation, which is not even that of the discussion about whether or not the country should do because it has to do not only on behalf of international commitments, but also on behalf of the present and the future of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u180	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot and do not want this path of your greatest tax burden of all time, of the worst public investment of all time, of increases in permanent current expenditure, which ultimately result in worse and worse public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u182	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u183	I will finish, Mr. President. The other disagreement has to do with your lack of ambition about economic growth, which they accept to slow down. We believe, propose and make structural reforms that bring more investment, exports, productivity, savings, value added to the economy and the creation of lower wages. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u184	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u185	There is an alternative and ours is the most growth and better state. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a set of information, so I ask Secretary Emilia Santos to give. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to the proposals of lein. 125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves rules on the processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 680, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system, which is also lower than 1. the Commission. Bill No. 830 / XIII ( 3 ) was also admitted. ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 1543 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the deadline for the collection of man-made pine pines in 2018 ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-26.u188	Thank you very much, Secretary Emília Santos. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on 2 May beginning at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda shall be political declarations; the second point shall consist in the assessment of petition No 346 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the repeal of Decree-Law No 96 / 2013 of 15 July establishing the legal regime to which logging and reforestation actions are subject in the continental territory with use of forest species ( Carlos Alberto Maldonado Fragoeiro and others); and, in the third point, we will appreciate petition No 355 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the creation of the National Day of Huntington Disease ( Portuguese Association of Huntington Patients ) together with draft resolution No 1011 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrates the date of 15 June as the Huntington National Day of Disease and recommends that the Government approve measures to reduce the impact of this disease and to support its patients ( PSD ). Good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
