ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. I begin by sending greetings to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. of the first item on the agenda of our meeting is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII, which guarantees the exercise of the right of preference of tenants ( amends the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966 ). In the meantime, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on a set of important information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I begin by referring to the proposals of lein. 144 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 145 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Law of the Judicial System Organization. The following bills were also entered in the Table: No 967 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Allow the deduction, within IRS, of the costs of medicines intended for pet animals ( NAPs ), lower than 5. the Commission ; points 968 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Value Added Tax Code by reducing the VAT rate applicable to services rendered in the exercise of the professions of the courts, counsel and solicitor ( NAP ), which falls to 5. the Commission; points 969 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Change the value added tax code, increasing the VAT rate applicable to chocolate milk and flavoured milk ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission; points 970 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Increases the residue management rate values for waste intended for landing and incineration ( NAP ) which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 971 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the tax system for bags with higher gramme ( NAP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission; points 972 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Terminates the exemption from value added tax ( VAT) for Tauromachic artists, acting either individually or in groups in Tauromachic shows ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; points 973 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Allow the deduction, at the income tax of natural persons ( IRS ), of the costs of repairing computers and personal and household goods ( NAP ), which falls to 5. the Commission; points 974 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — regulates the legal regime and regulations applicable to health units of the National Health Service integrated into the administrative public sector by repealing Decrees-Laws Nos 18 / 2017 of 10 February and 284 / 99 of 26 July ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 975 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an observatory for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 976 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against domestic, sexual and minor violence ( 46 ). the amendment to the Penal Code ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 977 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the possibilities for the application of preventive detention and limiting the application of the figure of the provisional suspension of proceedings ( 31 ). the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 978 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates judgments of domestic violence ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 979 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism for combating wage inequality ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and paragraphs 980 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Provides for the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to their protection ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. Parliamentary opinion No 67 / XIII was also included in the Bureau ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July establishing the legal regime for inclusive education ( BE ). The following draft resolutions were added to the Bureau: No 1775/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by protecting and safeguarding the Battle Monastery, by eliminating tolls in A19 ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission; point 1776 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — by the area of Bar region ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ) free from the exploitation of caulinos ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undergo the environmental attack in Mira and Cantanhede caused by the successive discharges of the Southern Interceptor ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1778 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Respect for the effective working time of teachers in incomplete hours ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; point 1779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the Ave River with the involvement of the municipalities and entities responsible for water resources ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 1780 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to oblige Ryanair and its recruitment agencies, Crewlink and Workforce International, to apply Portuguese legislation to labour relations with its employees ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; points 1781 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — by the recognition and appreciation of the work of the dealers ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission ; point 1782 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Latvia ( President of the HR ) ; No 1783 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by extending the maximum support period of the Wage Compensation Fund for Espond and other fishing professionals where similar situations occur ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission; points 1784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff ( PAN ), which falls to 8. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a survey on the use of equidae in animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation ( NAP ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 1786 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Recommends that the Government integrate the UN campaign to reduce pollution due to the production, distribution and use of plastic ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; points 1787 / XIII ( 3 ) ; ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( President of the HR ) ; and No 1788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the National Register of Multiple Sclerosis ( GNI ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. I also announced the withdrawal by the proposers of draft resolution No 1632 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works in schools of the Fernando Távora School Group ( The Greens ), which was in 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u3	We shall then enter the first item on the agenda, the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII, which I shall read. « Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 233 / XIII, concerning the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( amends the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966 ). As always, the President of the Republic does not supersede his personal positions — as a lifelong tenant and as a defender of the rights of tenants — to the objective assessment of the diploma submitted for promulgation. Against the diploma they have two fundamental reasons. The first is that, since it is announced, even for this legislature, a global remuneration of the urban lease regime, if you are moving forward with punctual, casuistic initiatives, not included in that reponderation. This, of course, has already been promulgated and a law has entered into force suspending the eviction of residential tenants in situations of more frailty. The second is that, in order to protect the situation of the present tenants, they may be creating problems for potential tenants, i.e. the rental market of the future, since the owners of buildings, in particular those not constituted in horizontal property, are invited to want to have them without tenants, or only with local accommodation, so that they can sell them more easily, without the devaluation that a division of common things in court, prior to the constitution of horizontal property, can take place. instead, in favour of the diploma it will always be said that it gives more powers to tenants of buildings not constituted in horizontal property, at least those of greater economic capacity, who may wish to prefer to sell the share of the property that they are leased. Moreover, all tenants — with or without already constituted horizontal property — may prefer without having to wait three years on the entry into force of their lease. Measuring counters of weight and pros, which are no less so, however the President of the Republic believes that the diploma justifies two clarifications by the Assembly of the Republic. The first is on the assessment criteria of the assigned part of the property not constituted in horizontal property. Since the right of preference is exercised before the division action of common or horizontal property, in whose title the said value would be specified, at least in terms of permulation, it would be appropriate, perhaps, to clarify the criteria for determining that value, which disappeared from the text in the course of the legislative process. And do not say that Article 1091 (6). it solves this issue because it concerns the sale of all the property together with others. Such clarification would save any possible negative effects in terms of judicial litigation. The second, most important clarification is that, in its version submitted to promulgation, the diploma appears to apply either to housing leases or to leases for other purposes, including commercial or industrial purposes. However, the protection of the right to housing, which is at the top of the new legal regime, is in the case of the lease being for such use, but not for business use. Therefore, and certainly the Assembly of the Republic will be sensitive to clarifying the two specific requests made, I return, without promulgation, Decree No 233 / XIII of 18 July 2018. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” As was decided yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, today there will be no discussion of this issue, which is scheduled for the second half of September. Therefore, at that time, their statements will be made and the political positions of each parliamentary group will be expressed. We then move on to the second item of today's agenda, which consists of political declarations. Yesterday, at the Leaders' Conference, it was decided that only political statements without the right to questions and answers will be made. The order of intervention begins by the party with more Members. You therefore have the floor for a political statement by Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are one month away from the proposal for a State Budget and everything indicates that the Government is preparing to start campaigning. He's already in the test phase. He probes his partners with headlines, leaves headlines to see if the thing takes and how it catches. When we need more responsibility, everything indicates that we will only have electoralism. With regard to the CFP and BE, they went on for three years to pretend they disagreed with the government, although they never stopped supporting it. And now we understand why. With the complacency of the PS, both have already expressed the desire to become part of any government. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u5	It was thus clear that it is not the interest of the Portuguese that moves them, it is only the interest in power. This is the famous government solution. [[PSD applause.]] The path we made to this solution was hard and should not be wasted. The Government should not underestimate the sacrifice of the Portuguese just to remain in power. The Prime Minister and the Government must respect those who must serve, by doing so honestly, only promising what they can accomplish, not giving what they cannot give, nor by pushing bills of electoral action for future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u7	however, the most important sectors of public services will collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u8	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u9	Let us look at the brief portrait of Portuguese public services, which we can designate as the portrait of chaos. First of all, health chaos, a chaos that gets worse every day, with increasing difficulties for professionals, an intolerable lack of respect for users. The health policy in Portugal is dying, and the government no longer does anything but blow to the side as if it were nothing with it. After everything we've been watching, we heard yesterday the 52 — 52 resignation! — directors and heads of the hospital of Vila Nova de Gaia in protest against the lack of conditions that have been dragged for months. That resignation should give thought to Mr Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, since in March of this year they had already been notified by various entities of the "war scenario" in which the hospital was transformed. But what does the government do? Nothing! Unfortunately, those who suffer are always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u10	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u11	I am referring now to the chaos in public transport: we see the daily torment of thousands of users in their travels to work and to schools; we see constant delays, train suppressions, time cuts, the bad state of the lines and train stations, which call into question the safety of passengers and workers. And what does the government do? The government says that things are not so bad, it talks about investments that nobody sees, makes half a dozen promises and, through silence, increases cuts in the sector by more than 20 million euros, as happened last May. Today, the railway is the largest proportion of expenditure frozen by the government, and those who suffer most are unfortunately always the same! I also refer to the chaos in spending with our natural heritage: unfortunately, Portugal has a Prime Minister who, from the height of his immense contentment, boasted for this year having been, in terms of fires—and I quote— "a success, if the fire of Monchique is left out"! How insensitive, Prime Minister! It is true that Monchique's fire did not cause, fortunately, loss of human lives, but there are dozens of serious injuries, hundreds of affected families and, because it has not guarded the state's heritage and the goods of the populations, as is also the duty of the state, there have been dozens of destroyed houses, many of them of first habitation, the local economy seriously damaged and more 27 000 hectares of burning forest, which makes Monchique's fire the biggest fire in Europe this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u12	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u13	Do you really want to talk about success, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! I am also referring to the chaos in the way of governing: what the Government is preparing to do with the money from the European Union Solidarity Fund is shameful and outrageous for all and, in particular, for the victims of fires, and is revealing in a way of opportunistic and masonry governance. First, the government did not prioritize all fire-affected populations. What made it take away part of these populations, such as those of the Councils of Mação, Figueiró dos Vinhos or Castanheira de Pera, and replaced them by support and entities whose expenditure falls on the State budget, thus creating an unjustified climate of discrimination and injustice among the people and fleeing their own responsibility in the financing of State services and structures, at the cost of supporting the people discriminated against. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I urge the Prime Minister not to forget that the State is the Portuguese and that the Government should be solely at the service of the Portuguese. And if the Portuguese are careful they will not forgive the progressive destruction of the public services they are watching and suffering from their consequences. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u14	For a political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) disclosed GDP data last week. They confirmed an economic growth of 2, 3 % in the second quarter, an increase above both the euro area and the European Union to 28. We can therefore proudly say that we have already passed the "Terminations". The Portuguese economy has now grown above 2 % eight consecutive quarters, showing robustness and sustainability. More importantly, however, the Portuguese feel, on a daily basis, the return of income, the growth of employment and the resumption of confidence. Looks like only the PSD doesn't see this. As expected by the government, this year, we will have a growth of the economy above 2 %, something that has only been achieved since the beginning of the century at another two times, in 2007 and 2017. This growth, contrary to what many hoped for, will keep us in line with the European Union, because Portugal will grow above both the euro area and above the European Union at 28, according to the European Commission's projections, over the next two years. Much has been done to recover the loss of income and the lack of investments that the PSD/CDS government has inflicted on the country and on the Portuguese. Since the beginning of the formation of the current government, people- and economy-oriented policies have been promoted and we can say that the economy has grown 5, 8 %, private consumption 6 %, investment 15, 9 % and exports 16, 7 %. This government invests in the country and therefore investment in the second quarter shows the highest value in the last seven years, reaching EUR 8 billion. last year we had the biggest investment growth in the last 19 years. Public investment greatly accelerated last year by increasing 25 % and now, at the beginning of 2018, to grow to two digits, about 10 %. Therefore, and as much as we liked it to be more, we must never forget that public investment fell to less than half during the previous government and that the PS also inherited a package of Community funds in catatonic state. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] No matter what we want, we can't do everything at the same time. We have given priority to reinstatement of income and investment, but we know that there is still much to be done, and that is the way we are going, for example, by investing 170 million in rail. Exports are another very relevant element for our economy. In 2017, exports have shown the highest growth in the last seven years. in the second quarter of this year grew by about 6, 8 % and at present we are with the highest real value of exports. But the most important thing is that none of this has been done against people or impoverishing Portuguese people. All these policies were designed to reflect on Portuguese and Portuguese and were designed to recover employment: more than 300 000 net jobs created — employment in Portugal increased in the first quarter of 2018 more than twice that of Europe; better working conditions and less precariously, with new contracts without end representing 80% of the job created. With the right in 2015, the situation was completely reversed, with the new contracts ending to represent the majority of the job created — 62 %. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the last 16 years — 6, 7% — about half of the unemployment rate we have inherited. in the last three years, we have been engaged in income recovery policies, with the increase of the national minimum wage in the order of 15 %; with the available income of families to present the greatest growth of the last nine years – has already grown 8 % since 2015, values which, as it is easy to understand, strongly contrast with the breakdown recorded during the exercise of the previous right government; with the reduction of the poverty rate and with a concern to recover and avoid social exclusion. Policies to strengthen education and health were also promoted. The PSD/CDS government cut around EUR 1000 million in the SNS, of which this government has already restored more than 70 %. The capacity of the SNS with more health professionals has been strengthened: we have more users with family doctor, more medical appointments, more surgeries, more transplants. We therefore have a SNS closest to the people and recovering from the attack you have suffered. in education, from basic to superior, there was a reinforcement of teachers, smaller classes, free school textbooks and support to students, with results in school dropout and retention rates. They were policies with certain accounts, assuming the consolidation of public finances a remarkable performance: after a deficit of 2 % in 2016, the deficit fell again in 2017 to 0, 9 % of GDP. We are thus faced with the lowest deficits in Portuguese democracy. After all this, we have proven, contrary to all expectations, that it is possible to reconcile the rigour of public accounts with the progress of the economy. It is important to underline — it is very important to underline — that in 2015 many were predicting misfortune. Some called science and claimed mathematically impossible; others called belief and called the devil. Some failed to destroy the path of encouragement that, with the Portuguese, allowed this government to rebuild confidence and hope in Portugal. Portugal is better and we will continue to work on this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u16	by the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, for a political declaration, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now entering the last year of a single legislation. This was the legislature in which the right-wing government did not privatize, did not cut pensions, did not disrespect the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It was in this legislature that the country breathed relief, knowing that the confrontation became about the advances and not about the retreats. The confrontation was and will be on the scope of the strengthening of rights and incomes, on the continuation of fiscal relief, on the scope of the integration of precariouss, on the month in which pensions for pensionees in Portugal are greatly increased. It is still too early for balance sheets, but what we have achieved is not a small thing: the increase in minimum wage, the increase in pensions, the strengthening of social benefits, the social energy rate — nothing of this is a small thing. The economy has grown based on security and stability, which can only exist with recovery of rights and income. And this despite the bad aggressors of PSD and CDS regarding the economic performance of the country and its Vaticans of very short and painful life to this parliamentary majority. Even today, the financial implementation of social security proves that the sustainability of public accounts is not built upon destruction, unemployment or permanent cuts in wages or pensions. First, investment is needed: investment in wages, support, employment, public services. That's the only way the bills will end up beating right. We have no illusions about this process, and there has been much to do, and so much has been done in the last three years. And if there is an area in which this criticism is fair is that of public investment, in which hundreds of millions of euros are simply to be executed. It was not an inevitability or bad fortune of the Socialist Party, it was a political choice of the Government of the Socialist Party that placed its exhibition in Brussels, its zeal for the deficit above the development of public services and the strengthening of economic recovery. We will not have, in this last year of the Parliament, how to recover the opportunities that have been wasted in three years, but we have — and when I say 'we have' I speak in the political majority of the Assembly of the Republic — the responsibility to go to the end, to finish what we have begun and to leave work done for what follows. This responsibility begins in October with the discussion of the State budget and there are expectations created and fair claims to which we have to answer. They are the expectations of all families who expect cheaper social passes, as we always defend—until we signed an agreement with the Socialist Party in the city of Lisbon. And I'm glad we're getting to good port in that chapter. But these families also know that if it is important to have a cheap pass it is also important that the bus pass by hours, that the train exists and has quality. It is the expectations of those who have worked for 40 years and who want to be able to retire to 60 years without penalties. They are the expectations of those who know that they pay for an essential asset, such as electricity, a tax rate that should be reserved for superfluous or even luxury products. And there are also those who have been waiting too long to see the excessive revenues cut out of the bill that make us pay the most expensive electricity in Europe. And, yes, there are fair and legitimate expectations of public servants, many with very low wages, which have been devalued for a decade, always losing purchasing power. Valuing public services, in addition to investment in equipment and infrastructure, requires the appreciation of their professionals—the cantons, nurses, assistants and also teachers. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not only will the next legislative session be held. And there are three central issues, three priorities to which we must answer. The first priority is, as I could only be, housing. The unprecedented clearance wave in recent decades requires much more efficient tenant protection measures than those that have moved forward so far. Stoping the bleeding of the waste requires more and more quickly, and demands political commitment here in the Assembly of the Republic. The second priority is the elimination of the toxic burden left by the troika in our labour legislation. The Government knows the proposals on the left and has even accepted some of these proposals. It is still time to understand the error of an agreement with the patronate, which is a terrible news for the workers. The third priority for this last year of legislation is health. in the last parliamentary year, we must return to the National Health Service a Basics Law that points to its development with a public and universalist strategy, as proposed Arnaut and Semedo, courageously confronting installed lobes and ruinous partnerships. We hope the government will not miss the call. We hope that the Socialist Party will not miss the call from the left to save the national health system. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, it is still too early to make assessments of this Parliament, but there is one thing we know: this balance sheet will be as much better as we know how to fulfil the expectations that have been created and how best we know how to respond to these priorities — housing, work and health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u18	I have the floor for a political statement by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this first meeting of Parliament after the holidays, it is worth making a balance sheet of what was this month when Parliament did not meet. It is important, looking at what the government has done, to see if anything has changed or if we continue with more than usual. And the truth is that we continue to have, increasingly, a government concerned only with appearances and increasingly distracted from the state of the country. An increasingly diligent government in advertising and more lazy in government. A government and a majority of left-wings are increasingly focused on spins and increasingly away from the difficulties of public services. And if it is true that PCP and Block cry crocodile tears here in relation to the state of public services, it is no less true that this state has to do with the government that makes it possible and the budget that they vote. I would like to give some examples, because the examples are always worth more than the words. This can also be a lesson for the government — there are no good speeches that erase bad realities. I started by giving the example of health. In March, we learned that serious problems were experienced at the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho. We have heard it, by the voice of the Doctors' Board of Governors. Yesterday, after the government had come to say, following this episode in March, that everything was in motion for resolution, that it had come to announce investment, in sum of having given all the usual excuses, we knew that 52 directors and heads of service, including the clinical director, resigned in protest, saying that it is not possible to continue working in those conditions. In view of this, you will ask the honourable Members. Members: Did the Hospital Board explain to the patients? Did you explain to the population? Have you given any assurances that health care won't be challenged? Mr. Minister, did the Government of Portugal respond? Did you explain the matter? Have the populations settled down? Don't! The only thing we had was the Board of Directors saying that the resignation was very strange and that it was not well that it was combined at meetings. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the situation is unacceptable and that it is unacceptable for a government which, in the face of this gravity, says nothing, does nothing and does no explanation. We have heard here a number of times, Mr President, calmly saying that everything is very good — indeed, we have heard Mrs Jamila Madeira say exactly the same thing recently. That is the speech, that is, that in the SNS everything is fantastic, that health is the high priority of this government, as, indeed, it is the investment. Member, if investment and SNS are the priority of this government, I do not want to imagine what is not the priority of this government. That is, if they are the priority, then, Mrs Deputy, it must be said that the government is being very incompetent in its priorities. On the other hand, we are talking about health—and the new speeches hide the austerity of ever—in relation to, for example, the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, which has also motivated many debates in Parliament, it is worth asking: Ladies and gentlemen, would you not like to ask your Government, for which health is a priority, if you have already solved the problem, if you have done something? I think they'll find out no! Priority continues to be forgotten. in the same way, and turning to another example — the time is already running out — I would like to talk about decentralization. The Government and Minister Eduardo Cabrita said here — even to the authorities in writing — that this was the great reform of the state, the reform of the last few decades, the greatest process of self-decentralization. When we see what has happened, we conclude that this great reform has basically to do with the approval of empty diplomas here in Parliament, which are nothing more than a blank check to the government by the PSD and PS. And when we ask: but, after all, in reality, this of decentralization is going to happen how? What are the municipalities going to be able to decide by what means? Then the government says: "There will be sectoral diplomas published and we will soon see what they will say. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is, when you go to concrete, when you go to reality, the government says nothing. The only thing that says is that the deadlines which are approved in Parliament basically depend on Mr Eduardo Cabrita. Minister Eduardo Cabrita wrote to the authorities that what was approved in Parliament is not worth anything and that basically the deadline is when he says and not when the Parliament of Portugal says. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will all have a little more respect for Parliament and, above all, respect for the Portuguese, which, after all, are the recipients of this great reform. It is worth having the government, once it was, make propaganda equal to reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u20	I have the floor for a political statement by Mr António Filipe of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are about to start the last legislative session of the XIII Legislation and, contrary to what predicted the lost rights, the country did not sink, the devil did not come, the Portuguese live today better than they lived in 2011 and, contrary to what they said, the Portuguese economy only benefited from the replacement of incomes of many workers and reformed. in these two and a half years, as a result of the many struggles developed by our people and the direct action of the CFP, it was possible to realize, although in a limited way, a set of measures that translate a real improvement of living conditions for the Portuguese. Steps have been taken in the recovery of wages, in the recovery of reforms, pensions and social benefits, in the reduction of taxes on labour incomes and in the replacement and recovery of a set of rights stifled in the period of troika and CFPs ( Stability and Growth Pacts). These steps have enabled the economy and job creation to be stimulated, confirming the importance of a policy to enhance workers' and populations' incomes in economic and social development. The initiative we took to cut the step to the offensive that was under way by the PSD/CDS Government was a victory over the social backwardness that was being imposed on Portuguese workers and people, but we are far from solutions that a true left-wing policy could guarantee. Recent developments in the political situation show the contradictions inherent in the options of the PS and its minority government, from which there is growing convergence with the PSD and the CDS in nuclear matters of government action, such as labour law, the transfer of competence to local authorities, or the next financial framework of the European Union. They are contradictions that prevent the resolution of many of the national problems, make public investment options impossible, which are indispensable to the development of the country, and limit the response to the concerns and aspirations of workers and populations. in the National Health Service, and in some cases have been aggravated, the difficulties of operation that have been felt for a long time due to the lack of professionals and the postponement of the implementation of measures approved for their appreciation that the defreezing of careers is only an example. The shortage of staff, in addition to causing exhaustion and demobilization in professionals, leads to a decrease in the number of beds in hospitals, delays in consultations, surgeries and treatments and promotes the transfer of health care from the public sector to the private sector. The current situation of the SNS is not the result of chance or merely conjunctural issues, but it is the result of decades of right-wing policy that the PS government does not demarcate, a policy that aims to weaken the SNS and replace it with a two-component health system: a devalued public service with only a set of minimum guarantees, for the poorest, and a health insurance-centred and implemented provision by private groups, whose care would depend on the money each had to purchase a health insurance. in the area of education, science and higher education, the problems also evolve and the normality of the start of the school year may be compromised. It is incomprehensible that only on 30 August were the placements of about 20,000 teachers, leaving them with a useful day to reorganize their lives. It is incomprehensible to continue the government's unacceptable declarations, admitting the intention of failing to comply with Article 19. that of the State budget and not to count all the time of service. The lack of educational action assistants identified last year is pending and there are specialized technicians whose contracts have not been renewed. The underfinancing of public higher education is aggravated, compromising its normal functioning and preventing the fight against precariousness. Regularization of precarious links in higher education and compliance with the law on scientific employment are far from being realized. It is a national requirement that these problems be solved. And the budget options for 2019 cannot fail to respond to the inevitable needs of strengthening public investment in clearly lacking social areas, such as health, education or social action, and to take further steps on fundamental issues as a further increase in reforms from January 2019 or the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas to 6 %. It has been very important, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the struggle we have been fighting for the defence, replacement and conquest of income and rights for better working and living conditions and for the development of the country. A struggle that we are determined to pursue, reaffirming that the PCP's commitment to the workers and the people is always with, and that is the commitment that the CFP will continue to honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u22	To conclude this series of political statements, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is something the Greens consider essential to remember until the end of the legislature and always, permanently. It is that the former PSD/CDS government has massacred Portuguese families, impoverished the country, brutally increased taxes, cut wages, pensions, incomes, in general, and wanted to do so in a definitive way. On the other hand, this government gave in to economic interests, particularly in the area of health, education, and its intention was to degrade services, to disinvest, to privatize. And it is good not to forget this, and remember it until the end of the legislature, first, so that you realize that much, but much, almost everything the PSD and the CDS say today, and until often they propose in the Assembly of the Republic, is not really to take it seriously. It's that they say something in opposition and when they get to the government, they do exactly the opposite, and they know who they're serving. Secondly, it is important not to forget this issue in order to realize that the investment of policies must continue, but more than that, it must intensify, and that is why the next State budget has to give very concrete answers to the problems of the country. That is why, in the perspective of The Greens, and only in this way will it make sense, the next State Budget for 2019 has to continue the replacement of income, whether at the level of wage increases, career freezes, higher pensions, increased social support. All this, improving people's quality of life, brings concrete benefits to the economy — as it is good to see for the results — better businesses and better jobs. Ladies. and Mrs. Members, it is also essential that the next State budget gives concrete answers to the increase in investment in public services. at the level of transport, there are effective deficiencies with which users face daily. We are talking about a sector that is crucial for mitigating the problem of climate change, but also fundamental for promoting the territorial cohesion of the country and, of course, also for guaranteeing the right to mobility that citizens have. It is necessary to invest heavily in this sector. Also in the health sector, more investment is needed, more professionals. We need to battle to decrease the waiting lists. We need to strengthen valences in many health units in the country and, in some, especially in oral health, we need to move from pilot projects to enlargement to all primary health care units, because it is a fundamental valence to respond to the needs of citizens. Also in the area of education, The Greens will fight, in the next State Budget, to continue the path of reducing the number of students by class but also to ensure preschool to all children over 3 years of age. It is essential that parents find answers to support for these children, it is essential to develop them. We will also not forget the issue of monitoring and withdrawal of asbestos in our schools and what much is yet to be done in this area. We also do not forget the area of culture, which has been permanently the poor relative. We need to increase investment in the area of culture. It is about our identity that we are talking about but also about a sector that generates jobs, and we cannot forget this. And, of course, in the area of the environment, the Greens will continue to fight for measures that promote greater energy efficiency, which promote better conditions for the conservation of nature and biodiversity and which, of course, also promote greater effectiveness in the country in combating pollution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and essentially, Mr. Members of the Government, let it be clear that we, The Greens, do not work to keep things on paper. We are working to make things, in fact, reflect people's concrete lives. That is why what happened with respect to the 4 /NP 18 pass, which the Greens here proposed and approved in the Assembly of the Republic, is not done! It is not normal for Portuguese families to go, from 1 September, to buy pass 4 /NP 18 and have not had the discount because the government had not regulated this concrete article,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u25	... proposed by the Green Party in the State Budget. Today we even come into contact with the government and demand that regulation, a response. But more than that, with effect from September 1st, and that people who bought the pass without discount are reimbursed. It is of the most fundamental justice and it is not aggravating public expenditure, because the State budget has already established it, on a proposal from the Greens. We do not work to keep things on paper but, yes, to have an impact on people's concrete lives. Therefore, we also demand compliance with the State budget for 2018...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u26	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u27	... as to the counting of all time of service for teachers and for all careers he depends on, as regards defrosting careers. Mr President, the Greens will continue to work for a better, truly, country with loyalty and determination that characterizes us. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u28	We have come to the end of this second item on the agenda on political declarations. At the explicit request of the CDS-PP, already two weeks ago, and which was ratified yesterday by the Conference of Leaders, we will proceed to the debate, by marking this parliamentary group, on the problems affecting the national railway line. So I think it makes sense for the CDS-PP to open this debate. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u29	Mr President, Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I shall begin by saying in a very simple and brief way that the CDS-PP regret not having made this debate earlier, but, as the people say, « it is worth more than ever». This debate is self-explained: if there is an area where there is incompetence of the Government of Management and inability of the Socialist Party to fulfil the Olympic minimums in what is good governance, it is in the public transport sector, particularly in the CP ( Portugal Trains ). It is not necessary to be the CDS-PP to use your experience, the visits you have made in loco, to give notice of what happens, so I will put aside the experience that the CDS-PP has had, doing well its work, which is knowing and giving notice of the real problems of the country. I could read here what the press has been reporting since February — I started only in February — about the problems in the national railway but I am beginning to give just one example: "the section in the railway can cause spills, putting security at stake," says one responsible for Medway. But I have more, and could even help me out of the 3856 claims that the regulator has, more than 64 % compared to the previous year, that give notice of regional trains to do Intercities, and that people pay the price of Intercities; trains and leading services, such as Alphas, with unacceptable temperatures, authentic saunas, with health and safety problems of passengers. The only passengers who felt nothing of this were the Socialist Party militants who used the special train.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u31	As for the lack of gas oil, Minister, do not say that it is the CDS-PP. I will use as a source something to which Mr. President of the CP has access every day, and I too, which is called IP Traffic (Infrastructures of Portugal — Traffic) to give you two examples. Now, what the IP Traffic says, in the daily notes it makes, as regards gas oil units on the Vouga Line, is that UDD (Thermic Motor of Type UDD) No 9635 remained without gas oil! It took place on 21 and 23 August and resulted in the abolition of service of four trains. I could give you a lot more examples, I'll just be around here. So, Minister, you have examples here, and it is not the CDS, it is the reality, it is the facts. So, Minister, you have to tell us, not what you will do in 2023 and 2026, when the government will no longer be of the Socialist Party, but what you will do tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u33	And here's another situation, which is surreal: the Santa Comba Dão station is closed. Former Minister of Public Works Jorge Coelho, socialist, says that this only happens because no one has yet been fired as it should have been. Mr Minister, answer me who is going to resign, or if you will resign, because using the same criteria as the former Minister of Public Works Jorge Coelho, this is an unacceptable circumstance. That's what I'd like to know. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u34	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This debate is an excellent opportunity for the Minister, on behalf of the Government, to apologize to the Portuguese for the increasing chaos in the COP. Apologize to the users of the West Line, who are daily victims of delays and cancellations of trains that prevent them from arriving on time at work and at school;
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u36	For you there was no West Line already!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u37	... to apologize to the users of the North Line, for the increase in delays and insecurity on the trip; to apologize to the users of the Cascais Line, for the abandonment of maintenance and for the suppression of trains, even in peak hours; to apologize to the Alentejo users, who never know what hours they will embark on, what hours they will reach their destination, whether they go by train, by bus, by taxi or, as this summer has happened, if they have to complete the journey on foot.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u39	Apologize to the users of the Algarve Line, who are faced daily with suppression and train delays; apologize to the users who, having acquired tickets to travel on Intercity trains, travel on regional trains without any explanation and without due compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u41	To apologize to the users of the Vouga Line, who were surprised by a cancellation of trains due to lack of gas oil, Minister ; to apologize for the lack of maintenance, which reduces the number of trains available and makes the conditions of comfort worse for users. Mr Minister, these situations are all well known, were confirmed by the President of the COP at a recent parliamentary hearing and cannot continue. Systematic seizures do not help to solve the problem, on the contrary, make the situation worse. This Government has not yet made any compensatory allowance due by the public service provided by the CP in almost 3 years of office. We are talking about EUR 90 million a year, which would greatly help solve these problems. Not even in the time of the troika has stopped paying these money.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u42	All right! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u43	Who's done with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u44	In fact, Mr Minister has not even even entered into the public service contract with the company, although we are a few months away from market liberalisation. That is why, Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today we expect an exercise of humility and respect by the Portuguese, for whom it has the political protection of the CP and to whom it is responsible to ensure that users are transported safely, at times and in conditions of comfort. We also hope that it will bring us solutions to today's problems and not the usual ads for 2030. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u45	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u46	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Emídio Guerreiro came here today, on behalf of the PSD and the previous government, to apologize to the Members, this House, to the Assembly of the Republic. We accept your apology, but we do not forget your responsibilities. Your responsibilities are clear and justify your apology, which, put in your mouth, does not cease to be yours. CP and EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company, SA), during the years of your government, have lived terrible days with investment, deforestation, sale of material, removal of services. This is your history and the responsibility the PSD has to assume. In fact, I wanted to move on to the PSD, because the PSD is "user and employee" in not taking the responsibilities it has on its side, and I wanted to go to the CDS-PP bench and Mr Hélder Amaral to say that Mr. Deputy has a status and has in his favour not to have participated in the media circus to train, throughout the country, on the trains that VV. E.g. they deleted...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u47	How can you walk if you've deleted them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u48	...and that this government had to reopen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u50	Look, it shouldn't have been for stinking. It must have been because he wasn't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u51	I was, I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u52	This government had to reopen lines, it had to go back to the circular trains and the services were again placed at the disposal of the Portuguese population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u53	But notice: what is happening right now is that for the first time, for many years, the country has been looking at the government and seeing that the government is doing what needs to be done. In other words, the government is making commitments and investing in railways, both infrastructure and rolling stock. It is only necessary to clarify: trains are not bought as cars are bought. To buy trains you need to plan investments, launch contests, launch procedures and award works. That is what the former Government has failed to do, and that is what this Government is doing, from our point of view, courageously, facing the problems that the country has. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u54	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u55	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I must confess that when we heard the CDS talking about the railway situation, and realizing that many of the situations they were talking about were no longer recent, they had already come to the previous government, the first idea that came to mind was that Mr Nuno Melo, after saying that he was going to start the campaign for Europeans and, therefore, during the election campaign, he heard that there was sauna in the pendulum alphas and decided to experiment. This is the only explanation, because, moreover, the CDS was never really heard concerned about any of the railway problems. And I give a concrete example: the first draft resolution presented by the Left Block for discussion in this Parliament in 2015 said that investment in rail was necessary, particularly in rolling material. And what did the CDS do? He voted against! So, about CDS coherence, we're already talking. They are incoherent, they never thought about the railroad, fell there by mistake, fell there only and only, because of the demagogy of those who want to be campaigning with the country's misfortunes, when they were the CDS and the PSD who mounted this misfortune on the railway. But, Minister, I would like to ask you a few very direct and very concrete questions. We already know, because we have heard the President of the CP say that in recent days, these timely problems will have a short-term resolution. But what is missing is the solution to the structural problems of the railway, and that is what I wanted to question you. We look at several European countries, starting here next door by Spain, and we see that all of them have already prepared themselves for the liberalisation of the railway sector and, in particular, for the protection of national companies and the service they currently provide. however, we look at the Portuguese Government and see that it goes back to the platoon in negotiating its concession contract with national companies. Therefore, I ask you what is happening, why this delay is taking place. I ask you, very directly, whether the government wants to privatize the CP. It is that we know that, if I wanted to, I would leave aside, for example, in this contract of awarding the long-term careers of the CP, because long-term transport is the most profitable and therefore more desirable for the private as well. It is not up to me that Mr. Minister may want to privatize the CP — we are not talking to the CDS or the PSD. So I ask you: are you thinking about placing in the CP public service concession contract also the CP long-term trains? A second question, in order to understand whether the government even believes that the railway has a future, has to do with the following: we know that the concession contract that will now be negotiated—and it must be by the end of the year—can already include, for example, a perspective on Fertagus. So, you believe the government that the public sector of the railway has a future and you will bet that CP can operate on Fertagus, or will you continue to see CP trains passing on Fertagus with the profit to stop at the Baraqueiro Group? These are very direct questions I leave to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u56	The Port Metro is from the Baraqueiro and it was you who delivered it. I don't know if you realized that...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u57	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we must not fail to point out how truly extraordinary this season of shows with which we are provided by those who, today, tear apart the vests of indignation in the Assembly of the Republic and unfolded in study visits to know trains and stations in front of the cameras and microphones, after the news has been released, precisely those who were recently in the government to put an end to the West Line and the East Line, to end with compensation to the CP — it was in 2014, Mr. Eídio Guerreiro, that the PSD / CDS government did so! — to sell CP Load for much less than its locomotives, to cut 10 % in CP staff and 20 % in EMEF staff. It is appropriate to say that if incoherence and political hypocrisy paid taxes, there was already money for a whole new fleet of trains for the national railway.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The real and concrete problems that affect users, populations and workers in the railway sector every day are the result of concrete policies and options of successive governments. For years—and acknowledge this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — the CFP has warned of the disastrous consequences of these policies. We called attention to urgent measures, which have been urgent for years, whether in the renewal of rolling stock or in the railway infrastructure, whether in the crucial issue of the operation and maintenance of the knowledge that is lost in the EMEF workshops in our country, because it has not been, and is not, renewing the company's teams and staff. We in the CFP presented in this House, and it was approved, with the vote against the CDS and the abstention of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u61	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u62	... a proposal for the creation of a national rail rolling stock plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u63	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u64	The CDS did not agree and the PSD did not want to know, had doubts about the strategic need that our country has to plan, prepare and advance for the renewal of the railway rolling stock.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u65	Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u66	In fact, draft resolution No 1443 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), submitted by the CFP, was approved in the Assembly of the Republic and, as an indicative, refers to all the needs of the national railway fleet for the coming years and which already pose serious problems and require urgent solution. Mr Minister, we bear in mind the statement by the Council of Ministers this morning — and will certainly refer to the following — regarding the acquisition of some rolling stock for the regional service. This is not a plan to modernise the rolling stock of the national railway, it is not. It is the answer to a part of the problem. We need to clarify to what extent the 22 compositions will be the necessary answer, given that they assume, as Mr. President of the CP said two days ago, the return of the 20 plus 4 Spanish units that are or are to be rented by the CP, plus the diesel material that will certainly not continue to operate and will have to be put down on the actual. Therefore, we asked about the effective response capacity that this acquisition configures, given that, even in the suburban service, here on the Sintra Line, there were tens and dozens of suppressions per day in recent months—there were weeks in which it was more than 100 suppressions—which raises the essential issue of a national approach to be made and clearly remains as a pressing demand and urgency in the work and in the response of political power. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u68	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure: I believe that it is no novelty for Mr Minister I reaffirm here, in this Standing Committee, that rail is a national priority for the Greens. And it is a priority on our agenda, in particular, as I have already mentioned, with regard not only to mitigating climate change but also to strengthening territorial cohesion and the right to mobility that citizens have. What was the choice of successive governments? Bet on the road and disinvest on the railway. Bad strategy! Today, you've noticed that. And the reason why the Greens have fought, along successive legislatures, is precisely why they invest in the railway, if they stop closing railway lines, strengthen supply and bet on rolling material and on workers. It's just that without these components all aggregated, this doesn't work. And that is exactly what is being verified. However, this successive de-investment—and, in particular, the brutal de-investment which the previous PSD/CDS government did because it had in mind a very concrete objective which was the privatisation of the sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u69	And it continues to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u70	... and that it was well explained—it could of course only result in things like these that people are watching today. But, Minister, this government does not aim to privatize, does it? So you have to have the intention of investing heavily in this sector. What we have seen, Mr Minister, is that, when Mr. President of the CP was here, the solutions he has given us are not immediate solutions. The rental of material to Renfe, Spanish, is not for now. The acquisition of new cars is not for now — and this is even in the medium term. So what people want to know is what the immediate answer is, which is going to change immediately to respond to their need for mobility in rail transport. This is fundamental. And, then, here we must necessarily turn to an issue, to which I would like the Minister to answer with all the border: is there any possibility that there will be CP without EMEF? Is there such a possibility? EMEF is fundamental, Minister! When we're talking about repair and maintenance of material, it's fundamental. And the number of EMEF workers is essential to give this answer. But when they tell us that the wager is 102 more workers, that is clearly insufficient! And don't come to talk about the other 40 PREVPAP(Exordinary Precinct Regularization Program in Public Administration) because they are already there. Therefore, what is actually being offered is more than 100 workers, which is clearly insufficient. What is the plan that the Government has to invest heavily in these two fundamental components, rolling stock and number of workers, determining to put the railway sector into operation? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u71	The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After four years of a right-wing government that has declaredly attacked the national railway to fulfil its strategy—which was not merely words—of acts—of privatization of EMEF and of granting and privatization of some CP lines, reducing workers who were so lacking, the CDS and the PSD have the courage to come to talk now about railway problems without apologizing to the Portuguese. We know the problems of the railway, we know what has been left to us and we know the purpose they have now, until it has opened again the campaign for the privatization of the CP lines by the CDS. We want to make it clear that our purpose is contrary, with us there is no privatization of the CP, there is no privatization of the EMEF, nor is there no privatization of the profit lines of the CP,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and in that we distance ourselves very far from the right, in Portugal. When we arrive to the government, instead of privatization, degradation or rationalization, we choose to invest and launch the most ambitious rail modernization programme for many years here. Today, there are works on the ground, in the railway infrastructure, in all the main railway corridors. We also know that the circulating material is old, certainly. About 20 years ago, the purchase of trains for the CP was not authorized. Since 2016, we have been working on the problem of the immediate: we have stabilized the tables of EMEF and CP, which, in view of the growing maintenance needs, not only needed to be stabilized as strengthened. It has already increased the human resources of EMEF and CP, but we have already authorised — and we have now authorised the answers to this question — the recruitment of 102 workers to EMEF and we have stabilized the situation of 40 precarious workers, who — and I take advantage of to inform Parliament — were not even all in service at this time, because some of them had already left, particularly in Santa Apolónia, and will return within the framework of the decision taken by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u73	They should never have left!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u74	Other decisions taken for now, also this week, are the following: we rent additional rolling stock to Renfe, which will arrive from the beginning of 2019, but still this year will be done the technical test of the electrical material so that it can also be rented, if we pass the technical tests, from the beginning of next year. The ladies and gentlemen. Members also talked about structural issues. After, on March 5, this year, we have launched a historic contest for the construction of the largest section of the railway line in this country in the last 100 years, implementing the railway link between the port of Sines and the border, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on 6 September, another historic step towards the railway in Portugal with the authorization by the Council of Ministers of the acquisition of 22 new trains for the CP — 12 of which are two-way, diesel and electric units, and 10 electrical units — of a total investment of EUR 170 million, of course, with priority now to regional services, and there are other conditions to explain to you later on the overall strategy on the matter of rolling stock. I end with a word to CP and EMEF workers : in the face of unheard attacks during August, they yielded more than 99 % in the regularity of trains that circulated in August.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u75	And answers to the problems? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u76	CP and EMEF are happy because, despite these attacks, they have continued to serve the Portuguese people and that is why today and tomorrow will also be the Portuguese Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u77	So far we haven't had any more inscriptions. We will certainly have and, therefore, we will wait patiently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u78	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u79	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u80	It will correct the 2014 lap!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u81	Mr President, in fact we are discussing the problems of the present and what is called upon here is the past. Mr Minister, over the past 23 years, you have ruled over 15! [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u82	The Minister has been in government for more than the last 23 years than the two governments of the PSD and the CDS together! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u83	So what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u84	What's it like? Oh, my God! Didn't you go ahead with the contests? Oh, my God! They haven't moved forward in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u85	We didn't move forward? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u86	So let's remember some things here. Mr. Minister complains of the situation he has inherited...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u87	Sure! A man who left the country in a situation like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u88	In 2011 what we had was a little different. We had what your government left, the government that you were part of, because you are one of the faces of the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u90	What did he leave? He left the international creditors inside the house, left the country on the edge of bankruptcy, left enormous conditionalisms and, nevertheless, the compensations were paid: 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u91	In 2015 it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u92	They did not pay any more after 2014. In 2016, 2017 and 2018 they paid how much, Minister? How much did you pay? Zero! Zero, Mr. Minister, and that's why I was helping! If we had paid the same as we paid in 2012, 2013 and 2014, probably the present situation, the daily problems of users would not be so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u94	I sincerely regret that the Minister is unable to assume responsibility and, in an exercise of humility and respect for the Portuguese, to assume here, in the House, that things did not go well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u95	Do you know why, Minister? Because the problem is not of the parliamentary groups that are present here. The problem is that what is happening every day happens to Portuguese train users, and these, Minister, should deserve more respect and more consideration from you. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u96	There's no more inscriptions, we'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u97	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u98	Mr Luís Testa, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Emídio Guerreiro is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u100	There you go! We know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u101	The present is always the result of a past, but the present we live is the result of a very recent past, a scandalous bet of the previous government in privatization either by EMEF or by CP. This privatisation was the objective, but the de-investment actually covered two objectives: firstly, to reduce the price, either from CP or EMEF, to arrange a buyer, cost the price it cost; then, to make the service absolutely unbearable so that, with no immediate public investment capacity, there was no alternative but to call the private to invest in public enterprises. This is VV. Ex. I meant it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u102	That is a'supposing'!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u103	This was the objective of the PSD and CDS governments, as well as the words of Euro MP Nuno Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u105	We distance ourselves from this view of society because, for us, well-managed public transport service is the public service provided by public companies. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Santos Silva and the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]] We therefore welcome the courage, consistency and responsibility of this Government and the Minister in assuming what their task is. That is to invest when you have to invest, plan as planned. We stand firm for this purpose and we will continue our course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u106	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u107	Mr President, Minister, I repeat the three questions I have asked you because they are structural for the CP and for the vision of the CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u108	Everything's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u109	Not placing the long course in CP's future public service concession contract is a way to privatize CP because it is to rely on what is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u110	I told you I'm not privatizing any line!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u111	Do not put the perspective on the future exploitation of Fertagus, whose contract ends at the end of 2019, in CP it is not to have a strategic vision for the railway to our country. But by now, not to provide CP and EMEF with human resources and we will continue to have the ratio we have, it is to transport to the future problems that we already face at present. On these matters, Minister, I repeat: for when is the contract for the award of the public service of the CP? Are you going to contemplate the long-term service or not? And you're going to watch Fertagus or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u112	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is short and the debate will continue — next week we will be there in the Commission — but I would like to ask a few very brief questions. On the admission of staff to EMEF, the President of the CP himself confirmed that it is clearly plausible to be around 100 workers leaving this year for retirement. It's 40 that get regular, 100 that go in and 100 that go out. In terms of personnel hemorrhage in railway maintenance is not being stagnant, it will be necessary to continue with new admission contests. Are you going to advance this measure or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u114	If you cannot answer, the PCP will shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u115	Second : on the national rolling stock plan, there is an urgent approach that needs to be made, even in relation to the suburbs, with particular emphasis on the Cascais Line, but even for other suburbs and even long-term carriages. Therefore, there must be an integrated and systemic response, which is not clearly emerging. Finally, a question which cannot be put aside has to do with the information of the President of the CP on the closure that is foreseen in the Vouga Line, between Cernada do Vouga and Oliveira de Azemelles,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u117	... final closure, to « end the marches in sight», he said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u118	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u119	Is this true, Minister? Does the government intend to end that piece of line in Vouga Valley? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u120	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u121	Mr President, Minister, we have to talk about very specific examples. For example, with regard to the East Line, Mr Minister knows how much the Greens have fought to reopen the passenger service on that line and the question I ask is the following: if the circulating material that is serving that line fails, what happens? Oh, my God! It is a line that has passengers and this has been demonstrated in practice. What happens, in practice, if that car fails? Oh, my God! It is the answer to this, for example, that Mr Minister has to give, and these are the answers that people need. With regard to the number of workers, the Minister must realise that the 142 announced for EMEF are clearly insufficient, 40 being PREVPAP, and 88 announced for CP. Without workers these services do not work and only if Mr Minister is aware that they are insufficient is that he can work to open new competitions to admit more staff. It is the conscience of things, Minister, which is fundamental. We have problems at the level of rolling stock, we have problems at the level of EMEF and the number of workers to carry out the maintenance of this material, we have structural problems in our lines and we want this to be modernised. It is not by chance that the Greens have on the street a very strong campaign called « Trains to roll, Portugal to move forward ». This says everything! Modernizing the country is going to bet on the railway sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u122	The floor is Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, telegraphically, our heritage and what we will be responding to in the area of rail is the following: rejection of the privatization of CP or any CP line ; the Railway 2020, with EUR 2000 million of investment; acquisition of rolling stock, even now authorised – and I now remember that both this time and the last time we acquired circulating material in Portugal were governments of the Socialist Party that authorised its acquisition, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro —; renting of more circulating material to Spain ; hiring more human resources for EMEF ; the contract of public service obligations with compensatory compensations, of course, which ended in 2015 — now Mr. Member, it was in your government ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u124	Did you pay anything? Oh, my God! You didn't pay anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u125	... capital appropriations of EUR 1660 million, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u126	Mr Minister, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u127	Mr. President, I'll be done. The political heritage of the right, which was in the 2011 Strategic Transport Plan, was : disable the Cáceres Line ; disable the Legion Line ; disable, or not reactivate, service in the Corgo, Tua and Themega ; disable New Sales ; disable between Beja and Funcheira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u129	I'm done now, Mr. President. This was the strategic transport plan on this right. This and privatize Cascais, based on Community funds that never put in Portugal 2020. [[PSD protests.]] It was this government, in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, that put EUR 50 million for the modernisation of the Cascais Line, contrary to your promises, that did not meet the Cascalians.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u130	Mr. Minister, you really have to conclude
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u131	They're talking about Cascais, but they left that population when they didn't put money in the Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u132	This time they've been under the train!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u133	To conclude the debate, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: The CDS normally has serious debates and now realize why you want to postpone this debate. It is that you have no answer to give the Portuguese about the degradation of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u136	Minister, I'm going to read a part of the Memorandum that you helped to do: « privatize the cargo activity of the State railway operator and some suburban lines ». Was he referring to Cascais or what was it? Oh, my God! Have the courage to say what the suburban lines you wanted to privatize, as you were in the Memorandum. I'm going to say more and I'm going to ask you to distribute a document, not to say it's the CDS you accuse. On the closure of lines, says the left.net site: « The Left Block realized that the study of the Government of Socrates gave the troika closed 800 km of line ». You know what, Minister? You know what? The West Line was one of them, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u138	It wasn't the CDS who made the complaint! You have little memory, and you have little shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u139	Don't you remember? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u140	Now, then, respond to the Left Block, the PS and the Portuguese Communist Party today, what it will do to the EMEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u141	I'm not closing lines!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u142	The President of the CP says: « There is no CP without EMEF ». A year ago, the Minister said: "I have a plan for EMEF." The previous government left him a plan, Ferrovia 21, for 32 trains. The Minister today announces 22 trains in the Council of Ministers, i.e. less than the previous government has left, although we have paid the debts that you have left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u144	The President of the CP says: "Well, you only invested on the highway! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Minister, in 23 years of government, 15 were from the Socialist Party. Do you know who the champion of subconcessions is? There is only one sub-concession made by the PSD government / CDS, all the others are the responsibility of the Socialist Party. You bet on the road, you don't pay compensation to the CP, you get 75, 3 million to the CP, you don't hire staff for EMEF,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u145	Hire, hire!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u146	... Mr. Minister has no idea what EMEF will be in the future. EMEF has serious recruitment problems because it does not comply with the rules of public procurement and does not comply with State aid rules. Mr. Minister promised a year ago a plan and so far nothing! And I still can't answer if what I said is true or not about something that happened in the country and that the Portuguese felt: a degradation never seen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u147	Mr President, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u148	... never seen, I repeat, at the CP, not even in the years of the troika. Mr. Minister went along with the complaints I gave him about the IP, which is his guardianship,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u149	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u150	... and those of his former colleague, former Minister Jorge Coelho, who said, and very well, that «that is why I could not use the train, because the station was closed» and that « this only happens because no one has yet been fired». And the Minister did not remove any consequences from there. Are you going to pay what the CP owes or withdraw consequences by resigning or resigning the CP President? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u151	We have thus concluded the third item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u153	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u154	Mr. President, to request the distribution of a document...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u155	What is the regimental figure?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u156	It is the question to the Bureau for the conduct of the work, only to request the distribution of a document that makes, exactly, reference to the study that the Government José Socrates delivered in the troika, which refers to the deletion of 800 km of lines.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u157	But is it not to intervene, is it just to request the distribution of a document?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u158	Exactly, Mr President, to ask the services to distribute the document to remember the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u159	Mr President, let us get the document and we will distribute-CL. We now turn to the fourth and last item on the agenda of this Standing Committee, which consists of the votes. I think it is clear that there is a quorum at this meeting of the Standing Committee, but we shall, in any event, proceed to its verification, so that I ask the services to activate the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 35 presences, therefore, there is more than enough for us to vote, since it is the same for 27 Members. Let us then proceed to the vote, beginning with vote No 609/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Eurico Lemos Pires, presented by the PAN. I call on the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Idália Serra, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Eurico Lemos Pires died last August 5, at 91 years of age. Born in Lamego, 1927, he was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic between 1985 and 1987. His knowledge and experience as a teacher and researcher in the areas of education and citizenship made him a public figure of international recognition. He wrote several publications on these subjects and in 1986 he was also rapporteur of the Basic Law of the Education System, a diploma that would change the structure of the education system and increase compulsory education from six to nine years. His career as a Professor of the University of Minho and the Polytechnic Institute of Porto allowed many hundreds of students to view his academic training embedded in fundamental democratic principles in the area of sociology of education. in its course he was also the first director of the Higher School of Technology and Management, and member of the director of the Cooperative of Artistic Higher Education Árvore II, current School of Artistic Art of the Port. In 1989 he founded the School of Arts and Design, in Matosinhos. Already in 2012 he published his latest book, a novel of political fiction entitled Sant’ Ana do Mar—Where Citizenship is Compulsory and, in 2014, participates in the collective work 40 Years of Education Policy in Portugal. By strengthening this memory and strengthening this sense of citizenship that binds us to Eurico Lemos Pires, it is with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, exalts its existence and marks its death, conveying to its family, friends and the community the most meaningful grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 610/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of entrepreneur Pedro Mendoza de Queiroz Pereira, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on August 17, at the age of 69, the entrepreneur Pedro Mendoza de Queiroz Pereira. The main shareholder and president of the Management Board of the Semapa Group, was his action that made this one of the main Portuguese industrial groups—also internationally through his export activity—with presence in the paper and paper folder, cement and environment areas, through The Navigator Company, Secil and ETSA. The human and professional qualities and the business spirit of Pedro Queiroz Pereira made him an unmistakable reference in the Portuguese industrial environment and the rigour with which he managed his companies will always be a unique example of leadership. As the more than 6,000 employees of the Semapa Group have acknowledged, ‘ more than a heritage, Pedro Queiroz Pereira leaves strength and values, ’ such as ‘ courage, independence, frontality and honesty. ’ Meeting in the Standing Committee, the Assembly of the Republic regrets the premature disappearance of Pedro Queiroz Pereira and presents the most heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and collaborators, recognizing the importance of their legacy to the national industry and economy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u163	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We now move on to vote No 616 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Rui Alarcão, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PS Members, who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u164	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Members of the Assembly of the Republic signed the death of Rui Alarcão on 20 August. Rui Alarcão was born in Coimbra on February 22, 1930. Doctorate in Law in 1971 and Professor Professor of the University of Coimbra since 1978, Rui Alarcão taught General Theory of Civil Law, Law of Obligations, Comparative Law and Introduction to the Study of Law. Many generations of lawyers trained in Coimbra welcome their knowledge and scientific and pedagogical qualities. at the University of Coimbra has held multiple positions, from President of the Board of Directors of the Faculty of Law to Rector. He was always a citizen committed to the cause of education and the life of his country, making his voice heard respected on various occasions. As a member of the Editorial Commission of the Civil Code, he left his fingerprint on one of the main references in the Portuguese legal order. He was also a member of the National Council of Education and the National Council of Higher Education. The Portuguese Republic recognized this exemplary life with various honours: Great Cross of the Military Order of Christ ; Great Cross of the Order of St. Iago of the Sword ; Great Cross of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to the memory of Rui Alarcacão and convey to his family and to the University of Coimbra the most sympathy for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u165	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 617/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Kofi Annan, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PS Members. I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Kofi Annan. Kofi Annan was born in Kumasi, Ghana, on April 8, 1938. His life as a public service was illustrated by the action for the principles and objectives enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the Organization of which he was an official and Secretary-General from 1997 to 2006. Multifaceted man, his openness, his commitment, generosity and diplomatic qualities were worth the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2001. The challenges he had to face were immense. Let us remember your action in the Timor-Leste independence process. Kofi Annan was a man of peace, humanity and vision. It was committed to the resolution of armed conflicts, the fight against terrorism, the defence of human rights, the responsibility to protect and adopt the Millennium Goals. Already removed from its high functions continued to serve the international community in various instances and ways, particularly through the Foundation which has its name. Meeting in the Standing Committee, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to Kofi Annan's memory and convey to his family and to the Kofi Annan Foundation the most sympathy for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 618 / XIII ( 3a ) — Despite the death of Alda Soares de Melo Cardoso dos Santos Victor, presented by the CDS-PP. The Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u168	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « She died on August 22, at the age of 96, Dr. Alda Soares de Melo Cardoso dos Santos Victor. He elected President of the City of Vagos by the CDS-PP in 1976 and 1979, with a majority, and by the PPM in 1982, Alda Victor was one of the ‘ five magnificent’ who broke the male hegemony and won the first autarchic elections after 25 April. at a time when everything was missing — the channeled water reached 28 % of the country's dwellings, the shower or bath at 19 %, only 42 % had sanitary facilities, 41 % had electricity and 38 % had sewage connection, Alda Victor directed the destinations of the municipality of Vagos for nine years, always promoting the development and progress of the municipality. Madam of great courage and determination, Alda Victor will forever be inscribed in the history of local power in Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic regrets the death of Dr. Alda Soares de Melo Cardoso dos Santos Victor and presents the most heartfelt condolences to his family and friends, recognizing the importance of his legacy for the democratic local power and for the municipality of Vagos. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u169	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 619 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the death of John McCain, presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last August 31st, he died in his home in Arizona, sick victim, John McCain, Senator and former Republican candidate to the presidency of the United States of America ( USA). John Sidney McCain III was born in the Panama Canal area on August 29, 1936. He received military education, training at the U.S. Naval Academy in 1958. McCain was a veteran military, being taken prisoner of war for five years in Vietnam, where he came out as a true hero to the American people. He competed for the White House in 2000, having lost in the Republican primarys to George W. Bush, and in 2008, then as a Republican candidate, having lost for Barack Obama. But it was at the Congress — where he was in office for 36 years — that he became one of the most prestigious voices of American politics. A man of strong conviction and great frontality, McCain became a moral figure of the Senate and his party and someone internationally recognized not only for his position in American internal politics but also in the external plane where he always sought to defend the fundamental interests of freedom and democracy, even disagreeing with some positions of his own party. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, regrets the death of John McCain and decides to present to his family, friends and the American people the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u172	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u173	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u174	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote that we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. at this moment, following all the votes we have just adopted, we will keep 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 607 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — From praise to dancer António Casalinho for the victories achieved in the 2018 International Ballet Competition, presented by the CDS-PP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on vote No 608/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From praise to the athletes Inês Henriques and Nelson Évora for the victories at the 2018 Athletic Europe Championship, presented by the CDS-PP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 612 / XIII ( 3 ) followed. ( a ) — From praise to Canoist Fernando Pimenta for the victories at the World Championship of Canoage and Paracanoeing Speed, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by a PSD Member. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From praise to the Portuguese athletes for their victories at the European Adapted Athletics Championship, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by a PSD Member. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — From greeting to the Portuguese delegation to the World Championship of Canoeing and Paracanoeing Speed, presented by the PSD. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on vote No 615 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings for the recent victories of Portuguese sport, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PSD and PS Members. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1782 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Latvia ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have for the vote two opinions of the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Constitutional Affairs Committee, rights, freedoms and guarantees. I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, is referring to the waiver of the mandate of Mr José Miguel Medeiros ( PS ), the electoral circle of Leiria, being replaced by Mrs Odete João, with effect from 24 July 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u177	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to the waiver of the mandate of Mr Miguel Tiago ( PCP ), a constituency in Lisbon, being replaced by Mr Duarte Le Falher de Campos Alves, with effect from 15 September 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-06.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on 19 September at 3 p.m. on Wednesday, and the agenda will have as a single point a thematic debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the national investment plan. Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, and by the week, for some, by tomorrow, for others. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours.]]
