ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. We will have a first point with political statements and then a second and a third point with petitions. Before that, there are several ads to make and I ask Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several initiatives. First of all, I refer to motions for resolutions 75 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Amendments to the Convention of the International Organisation of Mobile Communications via Satellite, adopted by 20. the Assembly of the IMSO, held in Malta, on 2 October 2008, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 76 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Consultation between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, which creates the Monteiro Lobato Prize for Literature for Children and Youth, signed in Salvador on 5 May 2017. Draft Law No. 993 / XIII / 4a ( PCP ) was also accepted — Social benefit for long-term unemployed people, which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1807 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1810 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Traffic Signaling Regulation, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1811 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination and promotion of the advantages of adopting ISO 39001 — Road Traffic Safety Management System, which also falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u3	Before we continue our work, I am pleased to inform the House that there is a delegation of congressmen and military from the United States of America, as well as Mr Ambassador, accompanied by our colleague Miranda Calha. For all of them, I ask for a greeting. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]] We will then move on to the time of the political statements, the first of which is that of Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The World Health Organization defines palliative care as care that aims to improve the quality of life and alleviate the suffering of patients and their families, who face problems arising from an incurable and/or serious disease and with limited prognosis. from a political point of view, the merits and the need for palliative care have been unanimously recognized by all parties with parliamentary seats, including the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. Unfortunately, the words of support from these parties, who have the responsibility to rule the country, have not been translated into concrete actions. The dissonance between the government's speech and reality is felt in the lives of Portuguese people, particularly those who suffer and need palliative care and who simply do not have access to them. But let's go to the facts. First of all, it is important to take stock of what was the Strategic Plan for Palliative Care proposed by the current Government. The Government presented a plan with the modest aim of reaching, by 2018, a number of 492 beds of palliative care, a goal that was far below the European recommendations and, even though it had been the Government itself to propose this number of beds, it has failed desperately in its implementation. of the 362 beds that the National Health Service had in 2016, there are only 14 more beds, increasing to 376, in February 2018. When speaking internally, even palliative care beds disappeared: only in Tres-os-Montes have passed from 17 to 12. They are data from the website of the Ministry of Health — sns.gov — or, better, they were data from the website of the Ministry of Health. Mysteryally, all data on the site disappeared. It is the famous transparency of the management government: when you don't like the facts, we always try to create a new reality. But there are even more disappointing data. This government had promised to create 100 community palliative care teams, but of the 18 that existed there were only 23. Yeah, they promised 100 teams and there's only 23! There are even whole districts in our country without a single palliative care team. It is therefore important to ask ourselves: being the objectives of the government plan so modest, what prevents the Ministry of Health from fulfilling what the Ministry itself has defined? Instead of being able to live with dignity the last months and hours of life in their homes, these patients are pushed into a path of suffering culminating in solitary death, in any hospital bed. And this leads us to talk about another government fallacy, which was the supposed creation of a National Palliative Care Network. unlike the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care, consisting of an integrated view of the areas of health and social and the target of reference mechanisms, the palliative care network is all but a network. These same care are only hospital services, without their own funding, which already existed and which do not work articulatedly. It is not a serious attitude on the part of the Government and, above all, it does not solve the problem of access and the quality of palliative care provided to the citizens who need it. Another concern relates to the clinical vision of the Strategic Plan for Palliative Care, which only provides for the existence of « acute» beds, proposing a maximum time of 15 days. Now, any Member of this country and any citizen of this country will understand that palliative care is not intended to treat respiratory infections or other conditions of easy and rapid resolution, they are often addressed to people with multiple pressure ulcers, with serious cancer wounds, with terminal heart failure, with respiratory failure, finally, patients with enormous complexity problems that will never see their palliative needs resolved in 15 days. Therefore, the question arises: where are these patients going? And this leads us to Portaria No. 249 / 2018, published by the Government on September 6th, which excludes all patients with palliative needs of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, an antisocial and totally incomprehensible measure. I repeat the question: after 15 days of hospitalization in a palliative care unit, the complex needs are maintained, where are the patients going? Without the National Network of Integrated Continued Care — the only alternative that exists so far — these patients can only go home or home, or, basically, return to an emergency service, to try to be hospitalized again in a acute unit. On the basis of this Government diploma, these patients are not entitled, at least, to assistance by a home support team of the National Integrated Care Network. No longer to speak in the absence of the status of the informal caregiver, promised by this government for 2017 but who has never seen the light of the day. The Social Democratic Party will do everything to clarify this situation and to contribute to solutions, particularly in a context of demographic development and chronic, oncological and degenerative diseases, which will inevitably result in a growing demand for these services. After the PSD has presented a set of concrete measures for palliative and end-of-life care through the Resolution Project No 1635 / XIII / 3. this week, we presented to the Health Committee a request, approved by all parties, to request the hearing of those responsible for the national networks of continuous and palliative care. Finally, we hope that the Assembly of the Republic will be able to contribute to solutions for the lack of strategy and funding resulting from the lack of access to long-term and palliative health care. The reality is contrary to government propaganda. Today, in Portugal, more universal access is lacking to care for whom, in suffering, more precise. We do not resign in defense of the health of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u5	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has three requests for clarification and wishes to respond globally. [[Pause.]] Mr João Dias, from the PCP, also signed up for a request for clarification. Mr President, does he intend to answer globally in that case?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u7	Thus, we passed on to the first recorded speaker. I give the floor to Mr António Sales of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, access to continuous and palliative care has improved substantially. in the last three years, it has witnessed the creation of a larger number of continuous care vacancies in all types: there were 8237 in 2017 and by the end of 2018 there will be about 9,000 vacancies. We saw the dematerialization of the reference process, we promoted the response in the home and in the « outpatientization», there was a strengthening of continued mental health care and we are very attentive to the evolution of informal caregiver status. At the level of palliative care, in 2011 the creation of the Basics Act was assisted by the initiative of the CDS Parliamentary Group, which defined the responsibility of the State in relation to palliative care. This government, in turn, created the National Committee on Palliative Care and its regional coordinators. We have created more than 100 vacancies since 2015! It was with this Government of the Socialist Party that the Strategic Plan for the Biennial 2017 - 2018 was created. We opened the first pediatric palliative care unit, the Kastelo, in Matosinhos, with about 20 places. It was also with this government that the framework of the therapeutic units of pain and intra-hospital support teams was made in palliative care, and since 1 April 2017 the activity of 109 palliative care beds has become part of the program contracts of hospital institutions. There was therefore an undeniable effort to improve the provision of palliative care. The publication of Ordinance No. 249 / 2018 did not intend to exclude the provision of palliative actions by the team unit of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, as Mr.Deputy wanted to believe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The correct interpretation of this portal is to constitute a criterion of non-admission in the units of teams of the National Network of Continued Care Integrated people with complex palliative care needs, thus not prejudiced the provision of palliative actions to people with functional limitations, in the process of chronic disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u10	I'm done now, Mr. President. I leave the following question to you, Mr President, with the proper interpretation and within existing constraints: for better quality in providing the care that the patients deserve, will you or will you not walk towards a differentiated action between continuous and palliative care? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u11	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, would like to congratulate Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite on bringing this issue of palliative care to the debate, on meeting the CDS on a subject that we have long followed and on which we clearly pride ourselves on the course we have taken, alongside thousands of patients who cannot be left behind. What we want to highlight is that, in terms of palliative care, the CDS has never stopped recording positive aspects that can benefit patients, such as some training that has been carried out in this area and the publication of a strategic plan. But in this Parliament, on health matters, on continuous care and palliative care, what we have is a hand full of nothing, with many kind announcements and promises, with aspects that are not met and, in particular, with lack of answers, which translate into thousands of Portuguese without access to quality care that should have, in deficit teams in number of human resources, in districts, as in fact, very well said the honourable Member, without coverage. This, yes, breaks our country; this, yes, should be a scandal! As regards health, we are talking about a vulnerable population, we are talking about people who do not have the support they should receive and, as regards families, we are talking about a government that has not taken care of the status of caregivers and families who are effectively abandoned. In this respect, Mr President, we are in fact far from what we have promised. We continue with a network of continued underfunded, deficit care, with an insufficient palliative care network, and then, as I said, we have a fully inadequate, hasty port. After all, if it was to keep everything in it, then why did you publish it? Oh, my God! Please note that a clarification has never cancelled a door. We therefore hope that the government will quickly correct the gross mistake that has cast doubt and great concern on thousands of families who do not know what to do to their families. Having said this, Mr President, the picture we have is insufficient, it is vulnerable patients left behind, but the CDS will keep track of this. What I would like to ask you is whether, after all, we are not faced with more de-investment in health, if we are not in front of a government that leaves behind people who need to be treated effectively with dignity, a government that has been responsible for three years and which should objectively have done much more than what he did, at least, fulfilling his promises. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u13	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome Mr Ricardo Batista Leite on the subject he has brought us today. More beds are needed for continuous care and palliative care. It's a fact. More vacancies are needed for home care for patients of these types. It's a fact. More investment and public response are needed in this area. It's a fact. in the same way, it is also necessary, in a very determined way, to respond to the requirement of the creation of an informal caregiver status. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u16	The Left Block cannot do anything other than find out these facts and have proposals to solve these situations, as we have actually been presenting. It is not clear where these concerns are in the national health strategy that the PSD recently presented to the country, Mr. It is that, in view of the need for public investment, for strengthening beds in the public sector and for strengthening home responses to these types of diseases, what the PSD presented to the country, despite so much concern shown, after all, were only public-private partnerships (PPPs). In the national PSD strategy presented to the country the only thing there are public-private partnerships, and that's there; it's the privatization of health, and that's there; it's the concession to business, and it's there. But continuing care, palliative care, strengthening the number of beds, strengthening the public response, strengthening the number of professionals, strengthening the response in the home to ensure the quality of life and the well-being of these people, that is not there! So, honourable Member, if this is all so important to the PSD, why isn't it there and there's only business? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u17	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Dias, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u18	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Batista Leite, in fact the PSD today brings to the debate a very important and very sensitive issue: palliative care. This is in fact a relevant matter with regard to health care provided in Portugal. It is necessary to recognize that palliative care, when applied early, brings benefits for both patients and their families, not only in the proper control and management of symptoms, but also in the reduction of the burden of family members, but also in terms of the reduction in the use of health resources, such as the decrease in attendance at the emergency service or the reduction in reintegration, inadequate therapy, etc. Sir, is the PSD now concerned about the National Palliative Care Network? Oh, my God! Is your concern actually the number of beds? And when you were in the government, Mr. Member? In four years, what did you do? Regulating? Did you set up the necessary palliative care teams? Has the number of beds increased in public hospitals? Have you trained and provided palliative care for sufficient professionals? The PSD now wants to save the face, wanting to convince us that you are very concerned about palliative care, but what actually reveals and shows is that you are just concerned about creating conditions to pass this area to the private sector as well. That is what we are talking about, and we have no doubt! The PSD, Member of Parliament, does not listen to the teams on the ground who have a lot of experience. If the PSD heard them, it would know that other measures are needed, including measures that increase the number of professionals, Community teams, for example, to ensure the necessary care in public services. Not just beds are needed, as you said here. There is an urgent need for answers, because, as you have already said, many of those who need palliative care do not have access to them. There are many regions in the country that are completely discovered. It's true! For the CFP it is urgent that access to palliative care be guaranteed to those who need it. It is also true that, despite some insufficient progress, the current Government has some heavy responsibilities in the response we have in palliative care. I could and should have advanced more...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u20	I am about to conclude, Mr President. However, I am challenging you, Mr President: is the PSD prepared to accompany the CFP in the draft resolution that we have in committee and in which we propose to strengthen measures in palliative care, in particular the strengthening of the public response capacity of the National Palliative Care Network? It is available to also pay particular attention to...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u21	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u22	... the implementation of Community teams? Is it available for home and intra-hospital care units to be provided with sufficient human resources, ensuring safe and multidisciplinary allocations? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u23	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Batista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you raised following my speech. In fact, after a few years in this House, the type of interventions that we will hear begins to be foreseeable, regardless of what we can say in the speaker's tribunal. Today, we speak in palliative care and the ladies. Members speak in ideology; we speak in the needs of people and you speak in private. In fact, my colleague José de Matos Rosa was right, before summer, when he said that the left parties in Portugal always put ideology in front of people. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u25	I must congratulate the Left Block who has very talented designers. They said they wanted to cut in the PPPs, and the PCP said in their posters, before summer, that health is not a business. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Well, what are you, besides propaganda, in which are undoubtedly the greatest experts of all, doing? Oh, my God! There are already three budgets — on the way to the fourth, to make the full — and in relation to investment in public-private partnerships, from 2015 to 2017, there were more than 7%. It is almost EUR 500 million that you have injected with your approval in this House. ADSE injects 10 % more into the conventional regime and 3 % more into the free regime. There's more than 500 million euros just there. What about the surgeries? It is more than EUR 100 million that you push private people through the budget that you approve! And the surgical valleys, which are the consequence of your inefficiencies in management and inefficiencies in the management of the Ministry of Health, result in pushing people who do not have access to health in the public sector to the private sector, even those who want to use the public sector. It is an increase of more than 12 %, more than 100 million euros just there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u26	It's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u27	Let us see an area that is so expensive to you, that of precarious work, the workers hired through those companies providing such critical services, the so-called tasks. In 2015, the Government spent 80 million; in 2016, 2017, 2018, it spent more than 100 million euros on hiring precarious workers to cope with the difficulties, lack of resources and lack of strategy in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u29	Let's talk about PPPs once and for all. There are four PPPs in this country and all were inaugurated by governments of the Socialist Party! Let's see what the explanatory note from the Ministry of Health in the 2018 State Budget, approved by VV. Ex.as, and I will quote not to make mistakes: « the Hospital de Lisboa Oriental, de Todos Santos, has no money in the 2018 Budget, since the model to be adopted will be a PPP for the construction of the infrastructure, which will only generate charges for the state in the future ». Come on, pay for it! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here discussing palliative care. [[PCP protests.]] Honestly, I think it's time for the PCP and the Left Block to leave the closet and assume themselves as they are, to stop having a speech that does not correspond to reality. The letter follows the indication of the founder of the PCP, Álvaro Cunhal, when he said: « Cover your eyes and vote ». That's what you've done November after November and you're going to do it again! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Mr. António Sales...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u30	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u31	I will finish, Mr. President. He asked Mr António Sales, and the other parliamentary groups, to be distributed, which was removed from the website of the Ministry of Health, since today he has only the table with the results of the so-called biennium that he was speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u32	There are several sources!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u33	It is that in this plan for 2017 / 18 for palliative care 100 home teams were promised and you did only 23. from the increase to nearly 500 beds, which were promised, you only increased 14, compared to what was done in the difficult years of the troika. We recognize the work that has been done by V.E.A. and the CDS and we are proud of in terms of the initiative which created the law of bases in the previous government for palliative care and which has created the basis so that, with determination and strategy, a response can be given. [[PCP protests.]] But we need answers. Clarifications do not eliminate decrees, nor would you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u34	Mr President, I ask you to take into account the Bureau's call for time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u35	Neither discourses nor posters can replace people's needs. There are people suffering in this country and it is time for the parties to come together to give an appropriate answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u36	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent report of the Varieties of Democracy of the University of Gothenburg underlined, within the framework of the quality of democracy and evaluating various elements, such as the opening of the system, the guarantee of fundamental rights of political participation, electoral processes, the enhancement of equality and the functioning of the institutions, which Portugal had a very positive 10. the place in more than two hundred countries subject to evaluation. in an overall framework in which, unfortunately, we have witnessed the degradation of democratic institutions in many countries—and in many countries where, a few years ago, we would not expect this outcome and this outcome—, some colleagues, even of European integration, must indeed be emphasized as an enhancer of the work that the 1976 Constitution and the various political leaders of all political parties have achieved over the decades. However, at a time when these authoritarian impulses around Europe, which sometimes seek to limit freedom of the press and condition the independence of justice, and when they ride in a populist manner, xenophobic extremisms, in fact, also ride the discontent of citizens, leads to the fact that they are often projected in democratic institutions, in institutions of democracy, aspects for which they have to find mechanisms to defend themselves, not being any democracy, even those with good results, such as Portugal, immune to these attacks. The democratic and republican institutions should therefore be the first to take priority in strengthening ties with citizens who are on the basis of their legitimacy, maintaining the initiative to cyclically renew, protect and reject any form of populism, not giving in to the breakdown of structural principles of the democratic rule of law. In fact, we must invest in the defence of the public interest, strengthen the safeguard of the Republican principle in the exercise of public functions and promote a substantial increase in the transparency of government activity as a way to ensure that citizens can vote on their representatives and that there can indeed be accountability, which enriches and strengthens democracy. in this precise context, the Assembly of the Republic resumes, in this one that is the last Legislative Session of this Parliament, the parliamentary work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in Public Functions, which may indeed be a comprehensive and important reform, which can meet the demands of the moment. Following the path taken in its electoral programme, the PS promoted the constitution of the Commission, as well as presented numerous relevant proposals to strengthen in our democratic DNA much of what we find as good practices in other European countries and as good practices in the institutions of the European Union. Much work has been done over the two years of life which the Commission has already done, much has been done at hearings level, preparation of proposals, work already of expertise, but in fact we have come to an important step in which we must all regard as priority, as urgent and as relevant, the conclusion, at the right hand, of the work of this Commission. In fact, much has already been discussed, many of the fundamental aspects of what is intended for this reform in terms of incompatibility or transparency, have been discussed, but in the coming months we will have the opportunity to close this dossier and have the ability to offer a comprehensive reform. Let us see what has been achieved and what are the challenges ahead. Firstly, with regard to incompatibilities, there has been a building of a parliamentary consensus — not a unanimity, which is not always healthy, but at least a majority consensus in Parliament — as regards the strengthening of the need for transparency and also the strengthening of incompatibilities in the exercise of certain public functions, in particular as regards the compatibility between the mandate of the Member State with the exercise of counsel and consulting in disputes involving public authorities. This step, indirectly already taken, is important because it also corresponds to what seems to us to be an aspiration of civil society and one of the aspects that is usually identified as defining one of the sources of criticism to the absence of clear rules in this same matter. But, of course, we must also view the reality of the State as having expanded to new realities. It is therefore also important today that the position of the State should be protected in privatisation, concession or negotiation processes in which other actors other than the classic holders of public office also have intervention, which, fortunately, has already deserved consensus. Secondly, on the issue of transparency, I stress not only the importance of clarity of the rules and the fact that they can be consensualized in such a way as not only to be clearly identifiable the universe of entities and persons who must proceed either with income declarations or with declarations of heritage, but also the reality that these declarations must be clear and can be accessible so that citizens can monitor and monitor how institutions manage and prevent conflicts of interest. The society in which we live today, with technological innovation, with a possibility of resorting to mechanisms that did not exist in the past, presents challenges to the system that we have among ourselves. When, for the first time in Portugal, we adopted legislation on this matter, we were even at the forefront of what was the framework of comparative law at European level. Today, many countries have already surpassed us and have been able to update the demands of the moment and therefore we can learn a lot from both the neighbouring countries and the European institutions, so that they are, once again, clear to all and protectors of all and the institutions, the rules governing the identification of transparency in this matter. But of course, in conjunction with this, we all recognize, today, in a consensual manner, that the means necessary to ensure that the system works must be strengthened. It is not possible to continue to understand that it is possible for the citizen to proceed to the poll in a dispersed and unorganized way. The identification of an entity that can be a place where it is possible to follow up the declarations clearly, where the referral is made to the responsible entities and where it is organised, promoting the advertising of them is an equally important step, in which, although there is no consensus, there is at least for now and as a source for the next steps to be taken in the Commission's work, the identification of a reality which has no answer. Finally, and in conclusion, I would like to mention two aspects which seem equally important to us, the first being the issue of representation of interests. Many countries have taken the step of regulating this matter and of having it well framed in what are ways such as parliaments and how governments articulate and advertise all those who intervene in legislative procedures and in public decision-making procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u38	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, this is a matter which, at the end of the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, we also find it important to put on the table, looking at the comparative experience and experience already in place for many Portuguese political office holders, in particular those who perform functions in the European Union. in this crossroads, the Assembly of the Republic has, in fact, an indisputable responsibility to give the answers that citizens want, without extremism, without populism and precisely recognizing that more than feeding populism with these measures, we prevent its increase and ensure that there is transparency and trust in the institutions of our democracy, raising a little the level of demand that we are also all linked to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u40	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, you have signed up to request clarifications from four Members. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u41	I intend to respond to two requests at a time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u42	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I must say that, listening to your speech, I have had a fundamental doubt. It's just that I was ready to talk about transparency. That was the subject that had been indicated. Now, with regard to one of the most recent aspects of transparency, I was amazed at the position of the Government and, after all, the position of the Socialist Party on precisely how to shut down the populism and silence the demagogy on the elect. This aspect has to do with the disclosure of the list of vital grants. It is not understandable, being a subsidy paid by the State as a result of the performance of a public office, which may be called into question for the protection of individual rights of secrecy or the secret of personal space. It's not understandable! We're not talking about people's dwellings, we're not talking about nobody's private life reserve, we're talking about paying for the performance of a public office and the right that was achieved by that performance. So when I heard the government say that it denied the right of public access to this list and the PS then came to say, « but we will present an initiative to solve the problem », I was thinking that there are problems that arise in later solutions. In practice, it did not exist unless it was in the will of the Government and apparently of the Socialist Party to hide what is an obligation of democracy, and it is an example of how, then, a space for demagogic, populist campaigns is given to attack, in fact, the foundations, the pillars of democracy. On the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, I stress that the great emphasis of its intervention was on what is least relevant in relation to what is being discussed, which is lobbying or lobbying regulation. I hope that the Socialist Party's intention will not be, after almost two years of work, that the only thing coming out of the Commission is the PS union with the CDS to regulate lobbying, the pressure business on public decision makers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u44	You've exceeded your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u45	I will finish, Mr. President. That would be incomprehensible, Mr, because there is a lot to be done about the rest. The creation of a Commission which guarantees transparency, controls wealth, controls income is essential, and increasing incompatibilities is essential. Will this be frustrated in the name of lobbying regulations? That's the question I'm asking you. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u46	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Machado, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of course, for the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party transparency is not a sufficient statement by itself. It needs realisation and coming down to real life, what are the problems of incompatibilities, impediments, inadequacies, that the principle of transparency — which guides, I think, all of us — exists in the concrete plane, day by day. Therefore, our intervention in this possibly Commission has been focusing very much on the issues we have faced in recent years in the Ethics Committee and on the problems we have faced. On some, there have been positive steps and we want to point out here, in particular the extension of impediments and incompatibilities to civil societies, where it is expected that companies constituted by professions regulated by professional orders — lawyers, account officers, accountants, etc. — they are also included in the role of impediments and incompatibilities, ending with a kind of offshore that existed in the status of incompatibilities and impediments, which had particular centrality in lawyers' societies, with the problems that this caused. But I think that is a problem that we are available to overcome—so you will say. However, there are, of course, other issues such as the period of disgust and the impediments of former political positions, particularly ex-government members, and the successive loopholes that exist in the norm. It is necessary to clarify and densify better what is the norm so that indeed there are not so many situations of promiscuity, of government members that jump to companies of private economic groups, and that they are allowed to transfer the same transfer only because they have not given a tax benefit or because they are not directly protected by them, leading to very unclear situations from the point of view of transparency. That is a problem that seems to be not being resolved within the Commission, but I would also ask you to comment on it. We also have the great issue of unjustified enrichment, which needs to be addressed in a serious way so that there is indeed a standard on unjustified enrichment which also provides our criminal police with a sufficient instrument.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u48	You've exceeded your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u49	To conclude, Mr President, we also have the issue of lobbying. We can't put the fox in the henhouse. To what extent does transparency aid the entry into the legislative process lobbying companies that are not obliged to declare who their customers are, for whom they work, what interests do they represent, when we have today the possibility of direct representation of interests, body to body, without passing through intermediaries? Why do we need intermediaries to increase transparency in the legislative process? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u50	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u51	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Jorge Machado, noting that I follow and agree — you are quite right! — when it says that transparency alone is not enough to strengthen the quality of democracy. But it's an important part of that same mechanism. I welcome the availability that has been made, particularly with regard to the issues you have referred to, that is, with regard to matters which have long been causing civil society perplexity to people. The amendments that we have already approved indicately already allow us to take a step forward, either with regard to companies or with regard to the identification of trade and industry activity and what should be the protection and clear definition of separation between public and private interest. These steps, already taken, are particularly positive. Regarding the period of disgust, we also accompany the concern of the CFP. This is, in fact, of those areas in which we are available to continue working on the standards that we have been discussing, precisely to identify not only cases where, very punctual and directly, in very specific and concrete acts, this may be a factor generating a period of disgust after the exercise of functions, but also in cases where, clearly, the intensity with which they have been dealing with certain matters should be complementary inhibition in that period. This availability, indeed, exists. I would also like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to manage my time better, precisely because I did not have the opportunity to address the matter of undeclared enrichment — I have clearly exceeded the time that was allocated to me, but I stressed that this matter is, in fact, important, also that we build a solution that is not inconsistent with the Constitution. Now, I believe that this is the most valuable part of the proposal that the Socialist Party has presented again, as it has already presented in the previous legislature. We go to a model that reverses the burden of proof and which has twice been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court is not a solution that guarantees what we want, which is a complementary and sanctioning mechanism of declarative obligations. We believe that our solution is duly wary of both criminal responsibility and fiscal responsibility, which has long been seeking to do but, inexplicably, always insisting on the unconstitutional line, preventing its implementation. As regards the issue of the regulation of the representation of interests, we effectively disagree with the reading of Mr Jorge Machado and also of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, even using the analogy of the first when it comes to putting the fox in the henhouse. I will not qualify whether it is a fox or not, I leave the analogies and fables for La Fontaine, but I would only say the following: the fox, as he calls it, will already be inside the henhouse. He's not visible, but he's already in there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u52	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. What the regulation, advertising and transparency of all those who have to have intervention in the care process is precisely...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u54	In fact, you have another minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u55	What is at stake is to make public, to make clear something that is an activity that is lawful, that is, what is intended is that all those who intervene in a legislative process or in a decision-making process are known, and that does not happen today. Be an intermediary, be a person who directly contacts an institution, must be public, must be transparent. That, yes, is a guarantee that we do not have today, contrary to what is happening in many European countries, contrary to what is happening in the European Parliament. Therefore, resistance to this matter is not understandable, since it does not make something that is illegal lawful, it only makes public, transparent, scrutinyable something which, indeed, must be scrutinized by the citizens. Finally, and now on the issue with which Mr Pedro Filipe Soares started, I confess that he was expecting — I tell him with all his loyalty — even as a result of the work we have been doing, a little more frankness in the approach to the matter of vital subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u56	Now, yes, I ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In fact, a problem arises due to the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation. I do not share the reading that advertising has become impossible. This is the reading which the CGA ( General Box of Opinions ) adopted but I would like to say again yesterday that the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents said precisely the opposite: « there is no doubt, the framework remains the same ». Therefore, this doubt exists. There are those who do a combined reading of the two standards and say that advertising on the list has become impossible, or not equally possible, as it was before. What the Socialist Party did was present a proposal which, in the law, unequivocally, without any margin for doubt, makes this possible. It is already delivered, it is in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which is the fastest vehicle to ensure it at the moment. What I ask—and I return the question—is the following: there is availability of all...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u58	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is there availability of all, or not, to ensure, registered in the law, without any margin of doubt and without being dependent on a decision of an administrative entity, that the list is public? We understand that yes and we have already tabled an amendment which goes precisely that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u60	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for a new cycle of questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u61	Mr President, Mr José Delgado Alves, with all sincerity, I do not understand why today in his political statement he addresses transparency, particularly the functioning of the transparency committee. We have been meeting in this committee for months, looking for consensus in an appropriate and responsible environment to arrive at balanced and responsible solutions. Therefore, I do not understand the issue of transparency today as a debate on current or political declaration. Unless the Socialist Party, and I would like to ask you this question already, at the outset, to make transparency a political flag. I think that, if that is the case, it is a bad principle because it never yields good results. Making transparency a political flag is condemning the functioning of the transparency committee to solutions that bring nothing good. It is that transparency, then, is practised, is not only unannounceable, it is practiced! We cannot talk about transparency when we then make sure that they are not given, when questions are asked to the government, they are not answered. Therefore, transparency is practised on a daily basis. I do not understand, honestly, what is the opportunity of yesterday or on Tuesday, in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, to discuss the new methodology for this Commission, to reach agreements and consensus, and today transparency is the subject of a political declaration in Parliament. I didn't get it! That's the bottom line. The PS should not say, first, in order to reach certain consensus, which partners do you want for these consensus? Have you already defined this to reach certain consensus, or, as circumstances dictate, will the work be delayed, choosing the partners, on either side or on the other hand, when they are interested?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u62	They're different! For some things they want each other, for others they want others!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u63	Then we will postpone the work and we will not reach any consensus. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u65	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, you also have the floor for a question on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u66	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has chosen the issue of transparency for his political intervention today. We would like this intervention to have been much more productive, Mr President, and much more transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u67	That's it! That's how our meetings are.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u68	Until we all know that there are a number of issues that are currently being postponed in the Committee on Transparency, awaiting a position on the part of the Socialist Party. We are very curious to know, and you have not taken this opportunity to clarify it, which is the position of the Socialist Party. So I'd say it's a missed opportunity. Mr. Deputy, make it clear! Will they be in favour of legislation in which transparency will be strengthened in the exercise of political positions or in a logic of exclusivity and prohibition which will reduce the exercise of these positions only to public officials or political officials, divorcing community policy and preventing the renewal of political positions? The honourable Member has a solution to the constitutional doubts that he says solves the problem of illicit enrichment. But you know very well that, in the hearings, attention was drawn to the risks of unconstitutionality of the Socialist Party's proposal, which, in relation to undeclared enrichment, provides for an 80% tax, which many say is at risk of being qualified as confiscation. More: with regard to the so-called transparency entity, "the police of politicians", how will the competences of this entity be compatible with the competences of the Public Prosecutor, which are constitutionally safeguarded? Is there a possible compatibility? The Socialist Party wants transparency? The CDS has doubts about this compatibility but at least has a position. The position of the Socialist Party, at this time, we cannot figure out what it is. On an issue which has already been addressed here and which also has to do with the issue of transparency — for which, at the last meeting, I called for attention and asked the parties to take a position — the disclosure of vital pensions, there was no answer from any party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u69	He's well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u70	The CDS asked at the last meeting of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u71	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u72	... if the various parliamentary groups understood that the issue should be addressed in that Commission. We did not get an answer from anyone at all. We believe that you should have taken advantage of this question because it is obviously incomprehensible to use the Personal Data Protection Act to prevent public services from divulging what you have to disclose, as you well know. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u73	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor within the prescribed time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank the two sets of questions and I would begin by stressing one aspect, because sometimes we are in the way in which we approach parliamentary debates. A parliamentary debate and a political declaration must not be a time when we are intrinating and firing each other. Therefore, the purpose is not to cause a problem, rather to put a subject that I think is transversally important to all. The way we programmed it was this. The debate and the way it can take place, necessarily, is not in the sense that we are all spitting out. Now, answering precisely your second question about what partners the Socialist Party wants, the answer is: everyone! This is in the sense that, if we recognize that the matter is structural for the functioning of democracy, we have always had the willingness to dialogue with all parties, knowing that—we all know—there are matters in which we will agree with each other, on a timely basis, and we will not agree with each other. Therefore, we are not bound in any of the proposals to always have unique solutions and we will all agree on all matters. We have reached consensus, in several respects, with the Left Block and with the Communist Party; there are aspects in which we have one proposal and the CDS has another on the same subject; there were drafting proposals, in the specialty, in which we worked with the PSD. This is the constructive spirit of a parliament. We do not, in fact, have to be entwined, the spirit and purpose are constructive, the agenda and the statement aim only to point out that we have resumed our work, we are on the final line and we want to stress the importance and priority that we want to give to this subject, obviously not appropriating it, because the final result will be a reform approved by Parliament as a whole, so that all Parliament must see it and be proud of it, in the final result. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, going to your questions, began, firstly, by saying the following: that is why! There were things postponed at the initiative of the Socialist Party ; others at the request of the Left Block ; others at the request of the CDS ; others at the request of the PSD, precisely because we are working on them. We therefore regard them the same way as in the past. With regard to some of us who asked for postponement, which is natural because the process is going on, but this does not prevent us, on the contrary, it allows us to build and find bridges to have a reform that is accepted and understood, which simplifies at the same time the mechanisms of transparency. But let's not confuse things! exclusivity is a different debate from the debate on transparency. If you have any doubts, the PS proposals are also clear from the outset. We have not supported the option for exclusivity because we understand that there are several factors involved, and in relation to some positions it is not justifiable, or at least it does not have to exist as a definitive general rule, but we very significantly tighten the system of incompatibilities in all those cases where it is justified to prevent a conflict of interest. And precisely what I have mentioned is one of those cases where I even think there is a very clear social cry and consensus on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u75	There's no CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u76	Secondly, concerning questions of constitutional doubt, it seems to us that our proposal fully resolves all those that existed in the legal-criminal headquarters, in which there is no reversal of the burden of proof and in which what was contained in the declarations of unconstitutionality made by the Constitutional Court is protected. One entity has indeed mentioned some needs to improve the proposal in tax matters, in particular with regard to better identification of what would be involved in this taxation, and we have always demonstrated our willingness to do so. One thing I must say, Mr President : I am a little afraid to hear the import of populist concepts that damage and make work difficult, such as the very concept that Mr has used of « the police of politicians ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u77	Either it's or it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u78	In fact, we know that the transparency entity that is intended to create, like the high French authority, is in fact intended to be the place to guarantee the collection and disclosure of this same information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u79	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, it is also particularly clear how this articulation is done. The responsibility of this body shall be to refer to the competent bodies for the exercise of their powers — the Parliament itself, the Public Prosecutor’s Office — where appropriate, the matters which open up and finalise their treatment. There too our proposals are particularly clear and it seems to us that the work we can come to do, far from hindering the task of these institutions, will improve them and will better articulate those who are the various plans of intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u81	For a political statement, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: September is an important month for all. First, for students and students, but also for their families, for teachers and teachers, for technicians, for employees and for all professionals of whom the school depends to open doors. Find out if more than 800 groups and schools are ready to open gates to a 1, 5 million students and students from September 12th is important for the country. For this to happen, it is necessary in due time to analyze 1, 5 million registrations, to place teachers, to guarantee the sufficient number of operational assistants, technical assistants, to hire or renew specialized technicians, psychologists, translators of Portuguese gestal language, to have all necessary material ready and to have all buildings in condition. When this complex symphony of millions of people, at various stages, runs without major problems, we say that the school year started normally. This is the obligation of the Government. And if it is true that there is never a completely news-free September, who here does not make amnesia a political weapon recalls that there have been years more chaotic than others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u84	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, public education is not invented in September. The failures of the beginning of the school year are generally symptoms of major problems, and it is for these that we have to look ahead of time. What we expect from the Minister here tomorrow, in addition to explanations, are commitments. One year from the end of the legislature, it is still time to be demanding and time is narrow for the government's apologies. What is the Government's commitment to 2019? Is it the cascade of deficit forecasts that Minister Mário Centeno promises below the taxes of Brussels and Dr. Teodora Cardoso foresees below the promises of Centeno, or is it investment in public school? There is no money for the works that are needed in schools, the promised ones and those that have been forgotten. We know that, after 4 years when PSD and CDS left schools for abandonment, everything is not required at any time, but interventions are required to be scheduled instead of being removed in the extremes of the finance minister's drawer. Lack of investment to ensure that, after all complaints about the low quantity and poor quality of food in schools, it is not all the same. The government swore that it was just a problem of supervision, but the year went back and in most schools the rules were still not complied with. Meanwhile, millions of the Ministry of Education are transferred to companies that are precarious and poorly paid jobs, all to ignore the evidence that students would be better served with canteens managed by the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u86	The same assessment has to be done on the relationship portal that determines the number of employees in schools. The problem is not just the five schools that have not opened because of the lack of employees. It is true that the ratio has been revised, that in 2 years more than 2500 operational assistants and is more half a hundred is now on the way to preschool. But if there are 100 groupings that can't even prepare to open doors without hiring jobs to 300 euros per month, it is because the portfolio of ratios is insufficient to meet the needs and it needs to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u88	This lack of investment eventually translates into more expensive education for families. In preschool, the cost paid by parents is the third highest in OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). The explanation is simple: in Portugal, half of the children are enrolled in the private because this was the model of pre-school enlargement. The education of all children is an investment of all, it cannot be the sacrifice of families. Therefore, the choice to defend equality is also the extension of the freeness of school textbooks up to 12. year. In short, the commitments we expect for 2019 are those that challenge Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues to end underfunding of education and to ensure, for the first time in many years, a budget that remains above that which was executed in the previous year. This is the measure that will evaluate the centrality of education in public choices. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always with the teachers and teachers that the government has these choices, that we all hope that everything will go well in the school year, despite all the curriculum changes and despite all the adversity. They know that and correspond every year, even in the most difficult years, and even hear the President say they are the best in the world! That is why teachers and teachers wonder if it is with affections that delete 10 years of career. The main failure of the government this school year is its arrogance because it wanted to fail to negotiate with teachers and ignored the commitment made in the 2018 Budget. Those who think we left teachers and teachers behind are dissembled! We do not forget what we voted for in the 2018 Budget, what we adopted in the Assembly of the Republic and what the law says, and we do not ignore the obligation of the Government, which is to begin in 2019 the first phase of the recovery of the 9 years, 4 months and 2 days of the teachers' time of service. The last State budget has to guarantee peace in public school, and this is not done without respect for teachers, without ending the dictatorship of the note and the dictatorship of the examination, without a genuine democratic reform of teaching. These are the challenges for the school year that now begins. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u89	Three honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members of the PS, the PCP and the PSD respectively. How would you like to respond, Mrs. Joana Mortagua?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u90	the first two together and then the third.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u91	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on this political statement on education, on the academic year and, above all, on the challenges and commitments that the Socialist Party and the Minister of Education will or will not take. In our view, many of these commitments are indeed in full development and many have already been achieved. As you said, whenever you prepare a school year there is a lot of complexity. On September 12, more than 1,300,000 students entered schools and more than 5000 schools had to prepare for a new school year. It is a complex educational system that has developed on the basis of two values that are very expensive to the Socialist Party: predictability and stability of the educational system. Therefore, in our opinion and in the opinion of most people in this country outside, in particular the parents, there was normality when the school year opened in time and hours— far away the times when the school year opened two and three weeks later! — and there was normality when it was possible to place the largest number of teachers in the education system in a timely and timely manner. In our opinion, and I think that they also follow us, there is normality, and above all justice, when we have a school year with less precariousness. The truth is that we have linked more than 7000 workers, under PREVPAP (Special Regularization Program of the Precarial Links in Public Administration), and also linked the teachers of Music, Dance and Artistic Education. Therefore, at this level, it is also a more serene and more stable school year for these workers who have finally been linked. Then we have also come to value teachers and their careers. As you know, we have defrosted the careers of all teachers and not teachers and 45,000 teachers have advanced a salary step already this year; we have reduced the brake standard from five to three years; and we have also made an ongoing investment of more than 19 million euros in continuing teacher training, which has been stagnated for so long; we have repositioned 11 000 teachers; and also the specialized technicians mentioned at the beginning are now always put early. Long goes the times when they were placed almost in the second period! Madam Member, the truth is that we also have 2550 operational assistants since the beginning of the legislature and a pre-school that opens with more 5000 vacancies. The question I put to you, in the context of the challenges you have launched, is whether or not to recognize whether or not we have a more inclusive school and education today, with the new model for inclusive education; more school social action—because the three State budgets already approved were making a successive reinforcement in the State budget, particularly in the social action of the State; more study visits; more meals; and, above all, a school with more citizenship, with more autonomy and curriculum flexibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u93	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u94	Above all, I would like to ask whether or not, by restoring income and combating poverty, we have a school today with students and families who are finally reverse the cycle of poverty, which for us is never deterministic, because we know that combating poverty is the best predictor to combat school failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u95	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Joana Mortágua for giving us an opportunity to discuss, today too, the question of education and the mention of the urgency debate that was required by the CFP, which will take place tomorrow on the beginning of the school year. The CFP agrees with the fact that the school year is starting relatively better than in previous years, but it also says that it is a relative normality because there are still great problems to solve. These are urgent problems, fundamental and structural problems, which are not resolved overnight, but are in fact questions that need concrete responses and measures by the Government. We do not do everything at once, but I ask you: it is or do not need to go, on the part of the Government, faster, further and better in the measures that respond to the problems of public school, which dignify careers, which respond to the rights of workers, which comply with what is stipulated in Article 19. the State budget, at the time of service count level, and which give more extensive answers as regards families as well as students? This issue of free education is, for the PCP, determining. It is directly associated with the issue of school textbooks for which the CFP proposal is free of charge in all compulsory education, a proposal of ours, always - a measure that has to work even better. We have also left these issues not only with regard to the investment mentioned here in infrastructure but also with regard to the strengthening of public school workers. There is indeed a lack of workers. There are no assistants in educational action—there is still a lot of precariousness in relation to these workers—, there are no specialized technicians and even teachers. There are fundamental issues that need to be changed and we ask whether it is not time for us to return on the one hand to democratic management and, on the other hand, to go towards the review of the competition system, so that there are fairer competitions in the placement of teachers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u97	You have the floor to answer Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u98	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Susana Amador's questions and saying that no one denies the improvements in the teaching system during this legislature. We know them well: the linkage of 7000 teachers; the decrease in the number of students per class; the freeness of school textbooks; the expansion of school social action. We know, in fact, that they all come from the agreements that the Socialist Party has made with the parties on its left. We know them well, we negotiated them with the government, we know what progress has been made. The mistake would be — in the light of these advances and satisfied with these advances — we entered the last year of the legislature, in the discussion of the last State budget, wanting to make the balance sheet of what remained behind as if there was nothing else to demand forward. And the truth is that there is a lot to be demanded forward! The first thing that is required is to look at the successive education budgets and see how over many years, too many years, governments have made the education budget by always budgeting below what was spent the previous year. What this means is that the government is already waiting to cut off on what it spent the previous year and not make any investments beyond what was spent the previous year. Now, this is incompatible with our vision of investment in public education. This is incompatible with the commitments made with students and families, with the commitments made on the need to hire employees, with the commitment made on teachers' careers. The subordination of education, the subordination of public education is the main obstacle to the measures that we all agree are necessary, but then they are not implemented. One of the biggest examples has to do with the recovery of teachers' career. The Assembly of the Republic approved the full recovery of the hours of service of teachers. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted in favour; however, it does not charge the Government what was the commitment of the Socialist Party, the vote of the Socialist Party, in this Assembly of the Republic. from here, I would go to answer the questions raised by Mrs Ana Mesquita. If we have a budget problem, a lack of public investment in education, it has to be translated—because we must always cut into something—and it translates not only into the quality of the facilities and the quality of the educational resources, but also into the quality of the rights, careers, the conditions of those who work every day in public school. Without these conditions, it is very difficult to demand a quality school. We also approved in the Assembly of the Republic a project which provides that the careers of the employees, the operational assistants will be reviewed, so that we may again have a specialization of these operational assistants, according to their functional content within the school, with the tasks they perform at school. We know that this corresponds to a budgetary effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u100	I'm done now, Mr. President. We know that reviewing the portfolio of links, which we are going to discuss shortly, corresponds to a budgetary effort, we know that to review the tendering procedure, so that there is a more fair scheme for the placement of teachers who do not force the travel of the teachers, reducing the areas of placement of teachers and, above all, ensuring that they stay within the school framework and that they are away from the precariousness and instability of their lives, it is a budgetary effort. We know that all this costs a little more in that framework of Excel with which Minister Mário Centeno accounts for the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u102	But we are counting on education, not on the deficit, and much less on the deficit that is in line with the taxes made by Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u103	To make requests for clarification, Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u104	Mr. President, I welcome all of you. Members and I begin by saying to Mrs Joana Mortágua that, frankly, I do not know whether I will praise your courage or criticize your defiance for bringing this issue here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u105	It would be more serious to praise the courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u106	And why? Because, Mrs. Member, the problems at school—it is true! — they are huge. There's a chronic underfunding problem. at this moment, there is an explosion of precarious work in schools; there is a lack of completely unacceptable quality of school meals in the canteens of schools; there is a chronic lack of operational assistants; there are promises to fulfill the teachers; there are repairs to do a little throughout the country; there are also schools without sports facilities in our country. Madam Member, the question is this: we have a Government of the Socialist Party, which governs, having lost the elections, solely because it has the support of the Left Block and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u108	Therefore, those who support this government must also be responsible for the problems in schools and for all the problems in the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u109	Madam Member, the first question I would like to ask you is: what is the degree of regret of the Left Block regarding the action of this government on the problems that exist in schools? Then what we see is the Left Block criticizing the government in public, while we hear and read in the news that this Left Block itself is negotiating with the PS the feasibility of the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u110	Wow, look at that! Great discovery!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u111	So, honourable Member, the second question I want to ask you is this: what is the Left Block that is to take seriously? What is the Left Block that the Portuguese should believe in? Anyone who comes here to make public criticisms or one who walks behind the scenes negotiating the feasibility of another State Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u113	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Left Block and the PCP have already made three State Budgets available in this House and the problems in education have only worsened. The question is this: what is the guarantee that the Portuguese have? What does the Left Block have to say to the Portuguese, in order to give a word of confidence that the action of this government will change and that the problems will be resolved once again? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u114	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u115	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, I find myself in the happy condition, for the consistency of the Left Block, to be able to have only one answer, however, returning the question: which is the PSD that you are asking about the lack of employees in schools? Is it the one who fired 30,000 employees in public school, or is it the one who, being opposed, suddenly, is already concerned with the precariousness? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] I have the happiness of being able to give a single answer to that question. The Left Block that defends, here, more civil servants in public school, more operational assistants and more technical assistants is the same as has a draft resolution, which will be presented here a few minutes and voted tomorrow on the need to strengthen the criterion, the ratio of employee allocation to public school, correcting the government portal. What I want to know is: what is the PSD that will vote on the proposal of the Left Block tomorrow on employee reinforcement? Is the PSD who cut the number of employees in public school or is the PSD defending the increase in the number of employees in public school? the PSD vote may depend on the approval of this proposal of the Left Block for the strengthening of the number of officials. Therefore, Mr. Member, the Left Block does not regret to contribute to the reduction in the number of students per class, it does not regret to contribute to the free school textbooks, it does not regret to have contributed to link 7000 teachers, it does not regret to have contributed to end the shame that it was that there were unemployed to earn 80 € per month, not to lose the unemployment allowance, to take care of children in schools or employment-inclusion contracts to tens of thousands,... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ... that you kept working in schools to deal with the lack of employees, which was already chronic at the time of your government and which was just closing, mitigating, but not yet at the levels that would be necessary. Mr President, what I ask you historically is the question that lies in the air, the question we leave you with is: what is the PSD that teachers can count on? Is that the one who confronts us with the commitment that the Left Block has made to fight for its rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u117	What teachers know is that the Left Block is next to them in defense of the full recovery of service time. What teachers don't know is you can count on the PSD in this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u118	We will move on to the next political statement by the CDS and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u119	H.E. Mr. President, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members: With regard to the recent OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), Mr. Minister of Education said that it appeared at the same time every year, like Christmas, and, like Christmas in December, we have every year, in September, the beginning of the academic year, this year inaugurated at the Basic and Secondary School of Celorico de Basto. And how did the school year begin 2018 / 2019? It started on the date set by the government for the generality of students, but for many without the free manuals that the government itself promised. The commitment was made in the State Budget in November 2017, and in these 10 months since then, the Ministry of Education has been unable to implement its own decision, failing the responsibility to ensure, in time and time, the manuals that students need to have classes and study.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u120	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u121	Public school students—because only these were covered—start the year already at a disadvantage against private school students, ironically because of the responsibility of this government. The voucher system itself, supported by the CDS as a way to safeguard local trade and independent bookstores, is being so badly executed that it results in the asphyxiation of the bookkeepers who wanted to protect. The valleys only began to reach families in September, often with improper assignments from books to students, sometimes with education officials to receive vouchers from others other than their educators. The bookkeepers, already with no handling funds, come to their arms with a bureaucratized billing system and a digital system, often « out of service». The Ministry has not advanced money and therefore small trade has to resort to the bank to finance itself or, better, to finance the State itself, and we will see for how long. But for the Ministry, problems are marginal and never their responsibility. For these parents and for these librarians, the year does not start with normality and serenity, as the Minister of Education so often repeats. The school year 2018 / 2019 could start at a requalified school in Celorico de Basto, but the same did not happen at High School Alexandre Herculano, in Porto, at High School José Falcão, in Coimbra, at the High School of the Rest, at the High School of the Lumiar or at the Trucks High School, in Lisbon. And neither does the same happen in the interior, in Customs of Faith, in Mogadouro or Vinhais, where there are schools with works approved on paper two years ago, but only in paper, or also in Joane, in Serpa or Odemira, where there is no forecast of works yet. There is budgeted investment, but not done. There's a scene, but there's no execution. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For these, among many other educational communities, the year was inaugurated without a minister and no holofotos, perhaps to hide the lack of conditions in these public schools. The year begins with teachers placed in schools and the government forced by all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Socialist Party, to correct the mistakes of the previous year's internal mobility contest. But it does not begin, for the teachers, with the so-called serenity that Mr Minister repeats unceasingly, perhaps to convince himself. It's because the defrosting careers is still on the table. In 10 months, since last budget, the Ministry has pretended that it would negotiate in order not to have to solve, others say that the solution is not negotiable and, now, to the Left Block and the CFP have already given up negotiating this issue for the next Budget. [[BE's protests.]] The thawing continues on the table, but there is no one sitting to negotiate it and the school year begins, yes, with an announced strike, which will deprive the students of public school in a week of classes. The 2018 / 2019 school year also starts with a new inclusive education law, published in July, after the previous year it has already finished and all the preparation work of the next one is practically finished. Schools are now trying to understand what changes, how they change and if they have conditions for this change, until they have received additional means from the Ministry and are currently receiving training, in some cases in the form of PowerPoint, distributed as explanatory reading. However, there are students who were removed from special education schools, where they already did their school course, but have no place, or place, in public school, for example, for lack of rooms or for lack of operational assistants. What's an inclusive law when there's students staying at home? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister of Education has been working for 2 years, 9 months and 21 days — curiously, the same time it offers to teachers. Time is what is running out for this minister, and much is lacking. In fact, this year begins with lack of material and lack of presence. For the Ministry of Education, the year starts with bad use. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u122	Mrs Depute, three Members have signed up for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u123	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u124	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject now being discussed — and I thank the CDS and the Left Block for the fact that they have brought it — is important today and important for the future of the country, but the problems of education have profound roots in Portugal and are also responsible immediately today. The discredit or credit of the political class, which is so in vogue today, is, in principle, fundamental to be discussed in this area. We have a government that deceives, we have a government that deceives, we have a government that manipulates. The area of education is paradigmatic in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u127	We have a government that deceives teachers, we have parties that support the government that deceive teachers, we have a government that manipulates families and deceives public opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u129	Having said this, there is something we need to say: the PSD wants to thank teachers, students, families and employees who, despite the hardships, were able to start the school year with some quietness. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] The government, who only wants newspaper jokes, in this plenary and in the committees, says that everything is okay, but then in the field, we know that not everything is okay. When asked about political responsibility for the link between the electorate and the electorate, this government has transmitted what can be done worse: it signs and does not comply, deceives and does not assume. In reality, the Socialist Party, present here, is eximilar in these matters. We have practice of this in previous governments. That's enough! It is time to say'sufficient' to the parties of this left-wing front that, for purely ideological reasons, lead the country's education and future to a miserable, miserable state, where the agents start the school year already demotivated. Mrs. Member, I'm starting to ask you a question...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u131	I will now finish, Mr President. The question concerns an area that did not mention and which did not start well either. We are talking about vocational education, which seems to be a matter and a mission for the state, but which, in fact, is always the poor relative in these beginnings of a school year. I ask you, either from the point of view of the organisation of the academic year and its planning, or from the point of view of the network and of the financing, what is the opinion that the honourable Member has regarding the beginning of the academic year in such a central and as important area for the development of the country as is that of vocational education in Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u132	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u133	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the ideological filter of her political statement is nothing that surprises us nor is it anything we should criticize. It's natural, it's just like that, and that's not why we're diverging. Of course, its relatively weighted tone—not that we agree with the content—is even to welcome, in contrast to other interventions, where we see pyromans talking about fires without any smell, which is what we just saw the PSD do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The problem, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, is not the ideological filter, which we understand and respect. The problem is that the Portuguese right acts like that story of Peter and the Wolf. It's that they all scream about the wolf that, sooner or later, we end up seeing that they're completely inconsequential. At the beginning of this governance, you attacked our stake in public school. You argued that the public school should be complementary to private school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u134	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u135	They have come to defend, from their bench, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, and the PSD bench, that the state should not invest in public school where there were private schools. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u136	It's true and that hurts you! [[PSD protests.]] It's true and that hurts you! The truth is, today... [[Continued PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u137	Obviously, there is a problem of education in this room! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u138	Mr Porfirio Silva can, legitimately, take the appropriate pause to be heard. When the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the pause is sufficient, and you will be able to continue. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that without public school there is no freedom to teach and to learn, and today we see that when you said that you were at issue with the freedom to teach and learn, you were screaming for the wolf and were being deceived. When we moved into the evaluation regime to end tests that did not exist in virtually any other civilized country, you shouted that it was facilitation, they shouted once again by the wolf. When we introduced the reinforcement of the moments of measurement, you said that it was easy, but after a year or two, they came to say: "Look, the proofs of measurement show the difficulties of the students! » — After all, it was no longer easyism. Once again, always screaming for the wolf and the wolf never came again. You said the success promotion program was easy...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u140	Even by discounting the break, you have already exceeded your time, Mr. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, on all these occasions, when the flexibility of curricular autonomy, when the bet on success, you have spent the time screaming through the wolf. Now, yell one more time. Madam Member, I am going to speak to you about an example of my question, that of school textbooks. I understand that some great bookkeepers and publishers are irritated by the way the government deals with this issue, but one thing is certain: this platform came to facilitate the life of schools, came to deburocratize, came to facilitate the lives of families and came to reintroduce the small bookkeepers into the circuit, while the previous systems threw them out.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u142	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, there has also been a time when the placement of teachers was done by hand. What I ask you is the following: do you think you will miss the time when the management of the measure of free school textbooks was done by hand? Oh, my God! Yes, manually!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u144	Mr. Member, please...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u145	Or are you willing to realize that this is wrong? How many educators and directors are saying: "Don't make noise about it, because the orders of the manuals will arrive in time and time"?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u146	Time and hours have not arrived!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u147	You don't think it hurts the students, you don't think it hurts the schools, you don't think it hurts the families to be using a tremendism...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u148	Mr Porfirio Silva, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u149	... where students should be respected, where should they respect schools, where should teachers be respected? That was the question I was asking you, Mrs. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u150	I'm asking the ladies. Members who understand that the Bureau has a task to do and, of course, thank you for working together to ensure that it is properly implemented. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u151	Mr President, I also welcome Mrs Ana Rita Bessa on the subject which brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. I wanted to start by referring exactly to the issue of school textbooks. We believe, and I fear - I have said several times - that is indeed a proposal for the implementation of which the CFP has been fighting in our country for a long time - that this is, in fact, a measure of enormous scope in terms of freeness, a measure of enormous scope in terms of equality of students in public school, which has already enabled 520 000 students in this third year of implementation. We are, in fact, talking about a very positive measure and we believe that it must go further, which should cover all compulsory schooling. In fact, the proposal presented by the CFP has always been this and, as we have already stated, we will propose its enlargement to 12. year. The question that I have already left to you is whether, indeed, the CDS is with the PCP in this proposal and the extension of the free education manuals to all students who are in compulsory education is defended. It is also important to note that there seems to be anyone who wants to make a positive measure into a problem. We have already stated that we believe that the process of allocating school textbooks should, of course, be simplified and that it should not be a penalizing element for families or schools. This is the second question, because we also know of the one who is the attack of a set of economic, financial and banking groups on this far-reaching measure—in fact, until studies have come out to refer to those which are the losses to families themselves. Obviously, we are talking about entities that have interests because they offered loans to families themselves to be able to purchase school textbooks and lost business. But the question is whether, in fact, the CDS is also with the CFP in the need for simplification of this process or whether it is with the interests of the large distribution, of the economic groups which over the years have made education a business and also made school textbooks a business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u152	You've exceeded your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u153	I will finish, Mr. President. The measure of freeness is positive. Of course, it is necessary to improve the whole allocation process, to facilitate it and simplify it, but they do not want to bring up questions that are going to make a problem which is not a problem, but which is, in fact, a positive measure and which should be extended to all students of compulsory education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u154	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u155	Mr President, Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, thank you very much for your question. In fact, it did not bring the topic of vocational education, not being able to bring everyone, but it is a very relevant subject and which is very concerned about the CDS, until this year, again, as in the previous year, what happens is that the classes have already started in vocational education, and specifically in public vocational education, but applications for the funding of the POCH (Operational Capital Human Programme) have not opened. It is said that they will be opened shortly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u156	Say it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u157	... and we know that "short excerpt" must be something that goes from today to July.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u158	This is no longer the Ministry of Nuno Crato!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u159	Therefore, it is not guaranteed that schools can find funding, and so much so that there is already news from several schools that say they will not be able to pay their trainers—which I think should leave those who defend the rights of workers, with all legitimacy and property—and, in addition, they will close some classes, leaving some students out of the educational options they wanted, even more in a government that understands, in our view, that compulsory education should be extended to 50% in the case of vocational education. There's something that doesn't hurt right, but apparently not all of them are worried the same way. With regard to the other questions, Mr Porfirio Silva, it will not lead me to harm, but look at the fact that it has not been wrong for Pyroman to do so here in Parliament. [[The CDS-PP's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u160	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u161	I would like to tell you, in relation to the history of Peter and the Lobo, that it would be worth reading the story to the end, because, at the end of the story, even the wolf comes—there is a day when even the wolf arrives!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u162	You guys are coming, too, but it's just for the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u163	I do not want to scare him or say how many times he has called him, but even with the institutional respect I think he deserves, I say to him: history ends this way, and he will draw his conclusions. The problem is, for some students, the wolf has arrived this year. Why? Because they believed in the state and the system with which the Ministry of Education committed itself, which told them that it was going to ensure that, on the day of the start of the classes — otherwise marked by the government itself — they would have provided manuals free of charge, and it is verified that they do not have them. Now, tell me, Mr President: if I had children at school at this time until 6 o'clock. the year, or until 12. in the case of Lisbon, I would probably be worried at least that I have to look at long lines to be able to redeem the vouchers – which have arrived, in some cases, this week – and for their children to start the classes without manuals and the teachers say: "It's better if you fix the manuals, because if you don't mark the lack of material from next week! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u164	That must be the CDS teachers, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u165	I don't know very well, perhaps, it's a very limited case and it sums up to me, but I'm very sorry to tell you that, if you happen to do your field research work, you will find several other cases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u167	...and I don't think they're just CDS, otherwise it would be a persecution that I find very complicated to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u169	What I would tell you is that, perhaps, it is worth worrying not only about what is going on this year, but about what may happen next year, when, above this complexity, schools have to go check if the manuals are able to be reused and ask only for the remaining vouchers in an even smaller period of time. So, as in 10 months they've been able to do little, they're now a year old and they might be able to do a little better. To Mrs Paula Santos, I must say that I do not know attacks by financial and banking groups. About that, I don't know how to talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u171	I will finish, Mr. President. What I can say is that the system of vouchers that has been set up, which meant exactly guaranteeing equality of circumstances to small bookkeepers, is being completely perverted in favour of large economic groups, in the retail, because they are the only ones who, in the lack of money paid by the Ministry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u172	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u173	... they can move forward to place the orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u174	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u175	Do you want simplification or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u176	Therefore, if this is the extent to which this government wants to do, if it wants to defend the large economic groups, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u177	It's the PCP that's helping the editors!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u178	... moreover, extending the measure to 12. year, we're delighted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u179	Do you want to simplify or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u180	I don't have any ideological prejudices, but that's not what we understand and that's not what we propose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u181	You didn't answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u182	For a political declaration on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For many years, the CFP has been fighting for the enhancement of long-term contribution careers. The long-contributory careers reflect the intrinsic value of linking workers to social security and their discounts throughout a working life in the financing of social protection that is due them and in ensuring intergenerational solidarity. The right to reform, acquired over many years of work, is a fundamental right of workers. Those who have worked for 40 or more years have the right and the legitimate expectation that they will be able to reform without being penalized for this reason, especially workers who have started working in childhood, who have lost meninice and youth and who see their right to reform limited, a decent reform, which effectively translates the much they have already given to the country, the much that they have contributed to social security. Therefore, the CFP insists on the need for further responses in the context of long-term contribution careers, in order to cover more workers, in better conditions and doing justice to all those who have worked or worked so many years and who deserve to see their work and their contributing career properly valued. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three days ago the diploma was published extending access to early retirement without penalties for workers aged 46 years or more and who have begun their contribution career at 16 years or less. It is an advance for many who started working with an age when today would be considered child labour, and this is a matter which the CFP considered, since the first hour, that should be mirrored in the early 2017 diploma. This is a measure that should already be in progress, even in accordance with the commitment initially made by the PS Government. It should be recalled that the Government postponed the entry into force of this measure for January 2019, but the insistence and determination of the CFP allowed to anticipate the publication of this diploma—it was also in response to the Secretary-General of the CFP, in a 15-year debate in May this year, which the Prime Minister indicated in October 2018 for the release of this diploma. This small part is fulfilled, but it does not remove any other concerns we have, because there is a very significant part of the initial commitment made by the PS Government in this matter, which is not expected to be carried out in the near future. The path started with the implementation of the existing legal diplomas represents the recognition of an important right, especially if we consider the perspectives that it opens with regard to the valorization of long contributing careers. But it is indeed necessary to go further and do justice to tens of thousands of workers who continue to wait for answers to their lives. The CFP therefore insists that the government comply with what it has committed itself to, but not only. We will not give up on going further and will insist on the effective recovery of long-term careers, defending access to reform without penalties for all workers with 40 or more years of discounts, regardless of age. We will also urge that responses be found for workers who have been pushed into unemployment, who are in a long-term unemployment situation, who are considered old to work and new to reform themselves and who, in access to early retirement — who seek because they have no other option — continue to suffer heavy penalties. We therefore advocate the revision of the schemes and special measures for access to early retirement for these workers. We will also insist on the need to find solutions that correct injustices and inequalities for those who are already reformed and, having been forced to do so in advance, have suffered deep penalties, much due to the hand of the PSD and the CDS, which have worsened and aggravated access to early retirement for thousands of workers. We therefore advocate measures to restore justice criteria for these workers who are already in a state of reform. We will continue to beat ourselves by the repeal of the sustainability factor and by the replacement of the legal age of reform in the 65 years. We will not stop intervening in the diversification of sources of social security financing by strengthening social security and its conditions for fulfilling its functions. For all this, the CFP has, of course, proposed, without prejudice to the necessary fight against unemployment and precariousness, the creation of employment with rights, the exploitation of wages and the fight against avoidance and contributing debt, because all these dimensions are linked to each other, because we do not detach the exploitation of long-term careers contributing to the exploitation of work and the significant importance that public, universal and solidarity social security has in the lives of Portuguese workers and people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who has spent a whole life working—and 40 years of discounts are a life of work in the lives of workers, not rarely lived in professions of great physical and emotional wear, in situations of great exploitation, with intense working rhythms and low wages — must be entitled to full reform, without penalties, regardless of age. This is because it is a matter of respect for the contribution that thousands of workers have already made to the country, to the production of wealth, to the public social security system; because it is not acceptable to ignore the reality of so many people forced to work to the limit of their forces; because it is a matter of valuing work and workers in the defence of the dignity of all those who have an entire working life; because it is to value the contribution regime of workers, the backbone of the public social security system; because technical and scientific progress, which has allowed them to produce more time, and the increase of the average life hope, must mean more rights for workers and for the reformed and better quality of life; because these are decisive steps for a path of progress and social justice. This is a path that the CFP will not abandon. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u184	To ask for clarification, four Mrs were registered. Members of the left, PSD, PS and CDS-PP, respectively, having Mrs Diana Ferreira informed the Bureau that she will respond in groups of two. To request clarification from the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u185	Mrs President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, for the Block on the Left technological progress and the increase in the average life expectancy should be translated into more time to live and not into more intensive working rhythms. That is why the demand for a reform without penalty at the end of 40 years of discounts is fair and means an increase in the quality of life, of the civilizational achievements that we must defend in the world of work. We also need to discuss the conditions under which work is provided, because it makes no sense that, at the end of a whole career of work, people are so destroyed by the conditions in which they perform their work. We also need to discuss the special recognition of the penoness of certain work organisation schemes, such as shiftwork or the work of stone workers, which must give access to a bonus and the right to early retirement without penalty. In the debate on the long-contributory careers, the Left Block has always fought to make this regime as far as possible. The first stage concerned compensation for those workers who were forced to work at an age when they were still children. In 2017, the government proposed that this first phase should only be for the workers who began discounting at the age of 12. The Left Block has always defended since the beginning of this discussion in 2017 that it would be for all workers who started working until 16 because that is the age of child labour. The government, in 2017, took a step, which was to recognize the right to reform without penalties for those who had begun to discount until the age of 14 and now, from October, finally, comes to meet this initial proposal of the Left Block, which was the one of 16 years. But this, as the honourable Member has said, is only the first stage of the long-contributory careers regime, because there are two other phases and one of them, the second, which should already be in force, the government has not implemented, despite the commitment it has made. We are talking about a second stage that concerns the end of the penalty for the sustainability factor, i.e. at the end of the 14, 5 % court in the pensions of those who worked for 40 years or more, of those who have a whole life of discounts. The third phase concerns not only ending this penalty for those who are 63 years old, but for all workers who are 40 years old. That is the government's commitment and that is also a priority of the Left Block in budgetary negotiation. We cannot finish this legislation without the second and third phases...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u186	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u187	...to be implemented, i.e., we cannot finish this legislation without the cutting-off of the sustainability factor, without valuing long-term careers and without a solution for the long-term unemployed, who lose the right to unemployment benefit and still have no right to reform. I know that, of course, Mrs Deputy, we are in a joint struggle. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u188	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u189	Mrs President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, at the right time brought to this debate the question of the national pension system and the need to introduce in this system a great reflection and at the same time a modernizing transformation that ends with injustice. in such a complex and often unjust system, it is important, in view of the changes that occur in the world of work, in society, to the changes that occur every day in terms of means of production, to reflect so that the injustices that exist today in the workers of the present system can be corrected so as to prevent, by correcting a mistake, if you are making a major mistake in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u191	What you can't do is, as we've seen in the last two interventions, use people to be a kind of string game, to see who pulls over to one side, who has more strength to win and say: "I got it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Don't! This is a very serious thing that has to do with people's lives and it's not to play.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u193	In due course, the PSD presented a proposal, precisely for the creation of a committee to reflect, to present concrete proposals so that the national pension system, in the present and in the future, in its entirety,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u194	But the PSD didn't want any workgroups!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u195	... be seen without errors, without omissions, be transparent, correct the injustices that exist today and do not come to commit for the young greatest injustices.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u197	I know that you have a langue, that you will say that you have done this and that — we already know the langue. The only thing we know is that today they are power and that they cannot come here dressed in the opposition's "coat" and then wear the "coat" of power only when you are interested.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u199	Madam Member, life must be clear and transparent and not a mere play of words and interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u201	It is important to know what you do as long as you can. It's important to know if they're willing to correct injustices today without caution...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u202	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u203	...the future of taxpayers who may come to suffer much more with the injustices that they say are correcting but who may become greater. Introducing equity in the system is the most important. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u204	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u205	Madam President, I should like to thank Mr José Soeiro and Mrs Mercês Borges for the questions they have raised. Mr José Soeiro, indeed there is an initial commitment made by the Government in a second phase, which should even have entered into force on 1 January 2018 and which did not happen, and in January 2019 we should already move on to a third phase, which would cover pensioners aged between 60 and 62 years. This is not being fulfilled, it is a responsibility of the Government that has not fulfilled its commitment. The CFP also understands that, in the scope and necessity of valuing long-contributory careers, the contribution career of 40 years should be valued and verified regardless of age, because we consider that 40 years of contribution to social security are a whole life of work in the lives of workers and a large part of these workers who have this long-contributory career are, indeed, people who have not had childhood, who have not had youth, who have spent their whole lives working, who have produced a lot of wealth for our country and who must see their contributing career properly valued, with access to reform at the end of 40 years of discounts, without penalties. We also do not forget the long-term unemployed and the people who are currently reformed and who have suffered severe penalties, and that is why we have tabled a proposal in the previous State budget, which, in fact, the PSD, which has so far expressed a number of apparent concerns, rejected in the context of the State budget. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Mrs. Mercès Borges, I would like to begin by saying that whoever played with the lives of Portuguese in general and Portuguese workers in particular was the PSD, because it was the PSD who actually cut pensions for Portuguese reformers, it was the PSD who cut Portuguese salaries and, curiously, Mrs. Deputies, to cut salaries, to cut pensions and to cut rights did not want to create any working group to analyze the situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u206	Yeah, no! We were in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u207	They didn't want to! They arrived and cut, ignoring the needs of Portuguese workers and reformers. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] However, we note further, Mrs Deputies: on the concrete proposals for 40 years of discounts, regardless of age, on the need to respond to the long-term unemployed, on the need to respond to those who have severe penalties — in fact, suffered by the PSD and the CDS — on all these matters, the PSD said zero, which very well reveals the concern of the PSD with these workers and with these reformers. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u208	We shall continue with the requests for clarification to Mrs Diana Ferreira. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u209	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I congratulate the CFP on the issue that it brought in this afternoon in its political statement because defending the extension of early reforms, defending the public pension system is to defend and guarantee its sustainability as a public system. What this Government has done, supported by this parliamentary majority, is to ensure the sustainability of social security, while strengthening protection in Portugal not only for reformers. Because this has been the case since 2015 and with this government we have had many gains throughout this legislature. This is to say: the replacement of the reference values of the CSI (a solidarity complement for the elderly) and the extension of its access to pensioners who had cut with the rules of the PSD and the CDS, the famous injured of the then Minister Mota Soares ; the replacement of the reference values of the CSI (social income of inclusion) ; the automatic updating of the pensions of the contribution and non-contributory schemes based on the calculation formula that was suspended; the increase of the IAS (indicating social support) ; the increase of the subsidy for assistance of third parties; the updating of the amounts of the family allowance; the replacement of the 4. the step, the increase of the increase; the updating of the disability bonus; the creation of the social benefit for inclusion (PSI); the creation of an extraordinary measure of support for the unemployed in 2016; the end of the 10% cut in unemployment benefit after 180 days; the creation of the new contribution scheme for self-employed; the new regime of access to the reform for very long contributing careers. These policies have had, and have, a very positive impact on social security accounts, on people's lives and radically contrast with what we had in previous years: cuts, cuts and more cuts. But these policies, in addition to valuing the public system and providing the lives of people with the best incomes, meet a fundamental objective: to hinder the ability and argumentary of all those who do not stop privatizing social security. The model that came into force in October 2017 for the very long contributory careers enables those who are 48 or more years of discounts and 60 or more years of age or, then, to those who are 46 years of discounts, having started working up to 14 years of age to access reform in more favourable conditions. In 10 months, until September 2018, about 15 000 pensions were granted. This measure allowed the average value of these pensions to be valued at €1736 per year— €124 per month. Therefore, the government has come to comply sustainably with what it has committed itself to. He referred to the Prime Minister's word which was given here in a 15-year debate. Well, the port which the Government approved and which was recently published will, from 1 October, implement measures that extend access to early reform, including the former subscribers of the General Box of Submissions. The impact of these new measures is EUR 4 to 5 million per year of structural expenditure. We are therefore fulfilling these commitments by making the budget 'legs' no greater than the'steps' of our budgetary measures. Mrs. Deputy, I end up questioning you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u210	That's it, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u211	I'm done. I ask you, Madam Member, whether the steps we have taken along this legislature, not only for the reformers but also for all workers and pensioners, do not give you a huge confidence and guarantee that we will even comply with what we commit ourselves to throughout this legislature, because we firmly believe that this is how we defend the public system and the reformers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u212	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I congratulate you on your intervention. It ended by saying that the CFP will not abandon this cause, this invocation, this demand. Madam Member, I understand that you need to say—and even repeat many times—to see if you believe that and to try to make others believe that. Madam Member, what we have seen in this Parliament was precisely that the CFP has announced to the country a number of measures, namely that people have the right to reform themselves without penalties after 40 years of contribution discounts regardless of age, making up posters of the same, but the fact is that we well know that what the CFP has agreed with the government and what is not enough of what it has announced for the country. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it is time to say that, yes, the CFP has abandoned what it has proclaimed and what it has said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u214	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u215	I can only ask you this question, Madam Member: if you have not given up, where is this claim in the support agreement with this majority? This question is simple and I ask you to answer it. Madam Member, I would also like to ask you whether this measure is guaranteed in the next budget to be approved by the CFP. And if it isn't, will the PCP vote against the next budget? I understand that the Portuguese get tired of the speeches that are made here in the Assembly of the Republic, of the repetitions that look like cassettes—and we in the CDS are used to it—but the truth is that the Portuguese don't want this kind of hypocrisy. Therefore, it is necessary to know whether the CFP is consistent with what is approved and requires or whether it is only doing « numbers » in the Assembly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u216	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, thank you for the questions that have raised me. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the steps that have been taken to enhance long-term contributions, which have resulted in a very persistent intervention by the CFP in this area but also from the struggle of many workers and reformed, who have demanded to see this valued right, have been positive, because of the prospects they have opened, but are deeply insufficient, and the CFP has said so since the beginning. They have looked forward to valuing long-term contributions, but it is necessary to make the way that they value in concrete who worked 40 or more years of their lives and discounted for social security. What is also required to realize is whether the PS accompanies the set of proposals presented by the PCP on this matter, that is, the bills that were delivered. In addition, it is also necessary to realize when the government will fulfil the commitment it has made to the Portuguese in the three stages of valuing long-contributory careers. As I said, the steps that have been taken are important but they are not enough. We need to go further. The PCP is here to take that path and you need to know if the PS will be as well. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the responses to the intervention and the measures that the CFP defends are in the legislative initiatives, in the set of bills we have already submitted. In addition, I would like to recall that the proposal to value long-term contributions, in particular with regard to the possibility of access to early retirement for those who are 40 years old and without penalties regardless of age, has already been discussed and approved in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u218	What about the Budget? Are they going to vote against or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u219	It is not surprising, but the CDS voted against this proposal, which clearly demonstrates its concern about the same matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u220	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u221	Are they going to vote against or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u222	I repeat: the CDS voted against this proposal from the CFP. When we brought here a set of problems for thousands of workers and thousands of reformers in this area, the CDS said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u223	You'll find out we're not communists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u224	On the need to implement these measures that the PCP presented and defended here, the CDS said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u225	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u226	No, I didn't say, sir! When we voted on the proposal to enhance the long-contributory careers, what was the position of the CDS? last time, you voted against, Mr. Therefore, what we really know is that the CDS is not on the side of valuing long-term contributory careers, as it was not on the side of workers or pensioners, because it also cut wages, cut pensions and worsened access to early retirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u227	And with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u228	In fact, it was by the hand of the CDS and the PSD that today there are a number of reformed workers who have suffered brutal cuts in their reforms, cuts that have reached more than 50 %. Mr President, it is necessary to know how the CDS will vote on the CFP's package of proposals when they are discussed. The initiative and concern of the CFP on the valorization of long-term contribution careers has come from many years and, no, we will not abandon this path, because the commitment that the CFP has to the workers is with the Portuguese people and with the construction of a more just society, with more progress and social justice. We're here to go that way and we know the CDS isn't there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u229	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this concludes the period of political declarations. We will continue with the second item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of Petition No 430 / XIII / 3. a ( Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council ) — They call for an urgent and effective response to the placement of operational assistants in Portuguese public schools and the Resolution Projects n. 1784 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff, 1790 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government review in 2018 the ratio of educational action assistants of the public school in order to strengthen it, 1793 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow schools to quickly replace operational assistants in an extended low situation, 1794 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Need to review the ratio of educational action auxiliaries in public school and 1796 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Review and strengthening of the allocation ratio of operational assistants and technical assistants to ungrouped groups and schools. For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor. [[Pause.]] Not being the Member present in the Chamber, we shall turn to the next speaker. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Moreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council for the dynamization of this petition, which allows us to discuss once again one of the serious problems of public school, the shortage of educational assistants in most public schools. The CFP has intervened and presented legislative initiatives at various times on the need for effective strengthening of public school workers. The CFP has alerted the Government on the ratios of educational action assistants who do not meet the objective needs of the school. And this concern is fair, because a little over the country there are schools where thousands of educational action assistants are still missing, in a context where many work with precarious links and/or part-time, performing permanent functions. Therefore, the CFP defends an effective link for each permanent work function. The reality that we are witnessing today is that the government has not authorized the replacement of these workers by long-term or retirement, as provided for in the General Law on Public Works, opting for partial recruitment for cleaning hours, usually concentrated in the early morning and late afternoon, never in fact replacing a full-time operational assistant. In addition to this reality, the so-called ratio remains inadequate to the needs of schools, in terms of their characteristics and their integration into the environment, the type of buildings, the number of students in general, the number of students with special educational needs, especially in cases where there is a need for permanent follow-up. All these questions were put as criteria to meet the proposed change in the ratio presented by the CFP at the state budget for 2017, but were not considered the dimension necessary to respond to the problems that were created in schools due to the lack of these workers. in a draft resolution that was discussed and voted on in this plenary session, the CFP recommended to the Government once again that it should review the portfolio of ratios, promoting the recruitment of missing educational action assistants in public schools, adapting these workers to the type of school buildings, as well as the proper regular functioning of support services and integrating them into the career with effective linkage, putting an end to the contracting regimes with precarious linkage. The PCP insists on the need for educational action assistants with adequate training to monitor students with special needs. The normal functioning of the school requires that the Government ensure that there are enough workers to respond to the specific regular and transitional character of each. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the public school does not defend itself with good intentions, it defends itself with investment, with more workers, with better conditions for those working in it or studying, with working hours that do not suffocate students and workers, with rejuvenation of professionals, with respect to their rights, including those of stability and career.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u231	You can conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u232	I'm done. Public school is essential for the progress of the people and for the development of the country. The CFP is committed to defending the free and quality public school for everyone, a public school that has all human and material means to fulfil its role of individual and collective emancipation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u233	Given the advance of the hour and given that we still have another point of discussion, I ask that we be rigorous in the fulfilment of the times. For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Federation of Associations of Fathers of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council last December denounced the lack of operational assistants in schools and groups of schools. On behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group and in the person of the first petitioner, I comply with the 12 548 subscribers to the petition submitted on the matter arising there. In the meantime, it would be thought that the situations indicated would already be resolved or in progress and that the discussion on the subject in question would be indispensable. Nothing beyond reality, unfortunately. The lack of staff, in quantity and in quality — when we refer to quality, we are reporting on training, stability and experience — is a serious problem that continues to affect the functioning and quality of our schools. Thus the Council of Schools, which also asserts that the amendments introduced by the so-called portal of the ratios were not sufficient to resolve the issue, which also refers to the failure to comply with the legal provisions and the inadequate legal framework for the provision of non-teaching personnel of schools and that it does not provide for prompt mechanisms to overcome prolonged absences resulting from disease, partial disability, retirement and death. These are factors that the Council considers to be responsible for the main difficulties and constraints which call into question the quality of public service in schools and which also lead to their closure when the minimum operating conditions do not occur. The CDS presents today a draft resolution calling for strict compliance with the provisions of the portal defining the ratios of non-teaching staff and recommending the establishment of a mechanism allowing the rapid replacement of long-term operating assistants, reformers and those who die. It is important to create conditions that enable a quality school, which enables the rationalization of resources and provides its appropriate distribution. It is important to end imbalances, difficulties and constraints of the sole responsibility of the educational administration. It is important to end the public, uninterrupted and unscrupulous gabarolice that is revealed in the Government's repeated statement that schools are equipped with the personnel necessary for their proper functioning, thus devaluing and olympically ignoring what happens in so many schools, a little throughout the country, and that social communication has been profusely reported. There are closed schools, for example, in Évora and Braga, where 31 and 21 operational assistants are missing respectively, and the situation affects more than 2000 students only in Évora. The Secretary of State for Education considers everything as extremely timely cases, minimizes the importance of the obvious lack of staff, the biggest complaint of the directors, which diminishes, and forgets that the shortage of jobs continues to be disguised with the hiring of poorly paid jobs at €3, €82 per hour, to which it is only allowed to provide services for 2 to 4 hours a day. And this is unacceptable! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u235	We will continue with the interventions. You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first word of the Greens in this debate is to greet all petitioners no. 430 / XIII / 3. the, promoted by the Federation of Associations of Fathers of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council, which makes an explanation of its concerns regarding the shortage of operational assistants, which the Greens consider very relevant, very fair and very realistic and which, in good rigour, alerts the Assembly of the Republic to its own responsibility but also to its responsibility for pressure on the Government on the need to comply with legal requirements, in particular with the ratios enshrined for operational assistants but also to the need for operational assistants with the right and sufficient number. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens have said several times in the Assembly of the Republic — and we believe that it is never too much to make this reaffirmation — that public services do not work without workers. Basically, PSD and CDS should realize this, because they have removed many employees from many public services and, in this sense, have greatly degraded these services. Today we are still paying for this, of course, because the looting was, in fact, brutal! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is good to reaffirm that there are no quality public services without workers to ensure the functioning of these public services, which all citizens need. With schools, it's exactly the same thing! Therefore, respect for school employees, for school workers, whether teachers or not, is essential for public services to be ensured with quality and how citizens deserve to be provided and insured. Now, how can this happen when we talk about non-teaching staff, including operational assistants, whose ratio is determined at the door—even if it is a better door office is still at the door—and is it a ratio below those that are the effective needs to ensure the safety and good functioning of schools? This is also why we have to warn the government! The ratio of operational assistants needs to be re-equated and adjusted to practical needs. There is a lot of talk here about the autonomy of schools. For schools must also, in accordance with their specificities and their concrete reality, have a word to say regarding their needs of operational assistants. Without them schools don't work! Moreover, at the beginning of this school year, this was very well evidenced, such as in previous school years. On the other hand, it is important to fix these workers in schools because they are part of the school community, which wants to be stable. Now, when the precariousness of these workers is heavy, it is also the public services that we are attacking. When it comes to the famous CIS (employment-inclusion contracts) and if you pay a ninaria to these people who are fundamental in schools, it's all the opposite, it's all overturned! It is for this reality that we have to warn the government. But, more, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to be determined in the sense that this reality effectively changes. It is to this end, Madam President, that the Greens present to Parliament today a draft resolution, precisely aiming at the need for a review of the ratio of operational assistants in public school, which I invite all to read in its resolution. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u237	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to greet the Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council and all petitioners and petitioners of this alert to the Assembly of the Republic, which will certainly be shared by all the people of the educational community who accompany and care about the state of the schools in this country. We have made a path since the times, which we have already talked about, in which unemployed people have played the role of operational assistants with employment-inclusion contracts. Today, this reality no longer belongs to public school, by the hand of the Ministry of Education, but we are far from being where we would like to be. The portfolio on the ratios left by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS was manifestly insufficient; it was replaced by another portfolio, already with this government, and the Left Block said at the time that we would have to make a concrete assessment of the translation of that portarium into schools, checking whether the criteria set by the new portarium were sufficient or not to meet the needs of technical assistants and operational assistants from all schools in the country. The truth is, in the beginning of this school year, school directors point to the lack of employees as the main concern of schools, the main insufficiency of schools, and point to this problem as not being today. The director of the Braga Conservatory says until « it has been so for many years; this time we have decided to close to draw attention to problems that existed in previous years». There is still an investigation, a blog, which also says that directors have been having this problem for more than five years. So it's a problem that goes on in time. We have identified, in this portal, three problems. One of them has to do with the inability of the door address the size of schools, the characteristics of schools, equipment, the way schools are distributed in space, especially those that were intervened by the School Park. There is the case of two-door schools but they don't have employees for both, or schools, like Palmela's, which have corridors so long that it takes more than one official to keep an eye on students in so many meters of corridor. There is also another problem that has to do with the fact that technical assistants are not assigned but by the criterion of the number of students in the home school. So the 1st schools. the cycle or pre-school do not give rise to the allocation of technical assistants, secretarial staff, despite giving additional work to secretary staff. A third problem, which is transversal to the school, has to do with the ageing and overload of these employees, which is getting worse as they go down, creating a vicious cycle between work overload, aging and the lack of employees who are going away from work. The directors estimate that these cases are 10 % of the absences of employees who retire or even die and are not replaced. These are three questions, and not more than these three questions, which are very detailed, are very concrete, are pointed out by all educational agents. Therefore, your correction is very reasonable and this project aims to correct them. So, what we propose is a review of the portfolio of ratios to solve the problem of the lack of operational assistants and technical assistants, in these concrete conditions. We also propose a grant of workers for the replacement of long-term workers, so that it is not made by employers with partial contracts from 4 hours to 3 hours, 82 € per hour but, yes, by workers with links to school, which is what all the operational assistants and all the technical assistants who work in schools, with our children, must have. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u239	Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners, in particular the first subscriber to the petition, the Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council, who demand an urgent and effective response to the placement of operational assistants. We also welcome the parliamentary groups that put forward proposals to recommend certain measures to the Government in this area. The current government has achieved a line of appreciation of public school professionals, appreciation of their functions in the context of the school community, as well as their careers. This is also true for the operational assistants, on whom we are dealing today and who make such a decisive contribution to the proper functioning of our schools. It is with this objective in mind, the appreciation of the professionals, which we appreciate the proposals presented. A number of plans need to be distinguished in the set of proposals. First, several recommendations are presented on what should be the portfolio of the ratios. There, we do not understand the exercise of recommending that what is already done be done. It is not worth recommending that the ratios should fit students with special educational needs because it has already introduced a strong increase in these cases; it is not worth recommending that the ratios should reflect the specific features of artistic and agricultural schools because the portfolio already has specific standards for these types, with the addition of operational assistants, as takes into account the existence of professional courses and a series of other specific conditions of the training offer; as takes into account the existence of sports facilities and equipment, assigning in these cases more operational assistants; as it deals more favourably with the existence of direct management refectories or the type of buildings. The same can be said about the recommendation to take account of the operating hours, which are already included in the weighting of the portfolio of the ratios. That is why it is not worth recommending that the legislation be legislated. The portfolio of the ratios was changed very significantly by the current government one year ago and only comes into full application this year, being a very valuable tool to suit the reality of the different schools the allocation of operational assistants. Secondly, a real difficulty is identified: long-term sick leavers pose operational difficulties to schools. This is in education, in health, in all sectors of public administration. Obviously, this is a cross-sectional problem for all administration. Thirdly, the implementation of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), which will have positive consequences in the careers of these professionals, will greatly contribute to improving their status, which, in our conviction, will bring beneficial consequences to the public education service. Fourthly, and no less important, we must welcome the work already done by this government and the enormous effort on operational assistants. We recall support for pre-school education, because in the school year 2016 / 2017, groups of 40 children had an operational assistant and, in this school year, all rooms will have an operational assistant. Let's just look at these numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the Government has renewed in good time some 3000 existing contracts and, through the hiring of more than 259 operational assistants, meets the needs to comply with the ratio provided for in the previous version of the so-called "race portal". Following this review, there was a global increase of more than 2000 operational assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u241	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u242	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after several years of de-investment policies in public schools and their professionals, with the imposition of anachronistic and elitist programmes and the promotion of private education, the current government has guided its intervention by a sustainable strengthening of investment. However, because much has been done, there is still much to do and the Ministry of Education is not indifferent to the recommendations discussed here today. Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u243	You now have the floor to Mrs. Germana Rocha from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the more than 12,000 signatories of the petition, presented by the Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council, here present. This petition aims to obtain an effective and urgent response to the serious lack of operational assistants in public schools, and to highlight the involvement of parents in these matters, precisely because they feel this problem daily in schools their children attend.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u245	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u246	Unfortunately, however, the response received by this Government was the beginning of another school year marked by a serious lack of human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u247	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u248	This government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who's been in office for three years and not three days, as they seem to believe the parties on the left... [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u249	...with the submission of these recommendations to a government that is supported by these same left-wing ones. [[BE's protests.]] This government is nothing more, nothing less than the champion of captivity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u250	And they're talking about the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u251	... captives, these, which seriously harm the public service of education, causing failures in support of educational agents and, in particular, students with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u252	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u253	But this lack of employees in schools also happens because this government has not, as was its obligation, given the decisions on which it is responsible, such as the shift from 40 to 35 hours a week or a mechanism allowing the replacement of workers in situations of prolonged medical leave. More: the current government, which promises the fight against precariousness, is the same one that contributes to the creation of more precarious workers, as is the case with the recent hiring of jobs for schools, paid less than €4 per hour, in an attempt to mend what was not able to resolve during these three years of governance. [[BE's protests.]] Whenever the PSD alerted these situations, the answer was that the problem was being solved and that there was even a reinforcement of operational assistants in all schools. Now, of two, one: either they don't know the reality of schools or they don't know the meaning of the word "strengthening". [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the reality demonstrates is that there is a manifest lack of employees, which is urgently resolved, and which has led to the closure of various services, to schools closed to imprisonment and thousands of students without classes, questioning the functioning of the education system, the stability and the tranquility that is intended for the start-up and over another school year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u254	Although outside the initially planned order, as proposer of the Draft Resolution No 1784 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff, the initiative added to the petition, has the floor to close this debate, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome and congratulate the thousands of petitioners who call on the Assembly of the Republic to respond urgently and effectively to the placement of operational assistants in Portuguese public schools. Although they play an essential role in the regular functioning of schools, educational support staff are often forgotten, performing their functions in a precarious situation, with low wages and with little training. In order to reverse the situation, we present today a project which, on the one hand, proposes the revision of the criteria for the allocation of educational support staff to schools, which should be accompanied by a rigorous assessment of the number of workers required, ensuring a better distribution of these, and on the other hand, it must be created a proper status for educational support staff, with special careers, ensuring that they have adequate training and that it is particularly important for those who accompany children with special educational needs. We recognize the high importance of these professionals and therefore argue that they have better working conditions, more professional stability and adequate training, resulting in more skilled professionals with positive impacts on the functioning of schools and on safeguarding the lives of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u256	We now move on to point three of the agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 293 / XIII / 2. a ( Daniel Conceição Gonçalves da Silva e Others) — They request the installation of a police station in the area of the new avenues of parish and the Resolution Project No 1792 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the re-installation of a PSP team in the new Avenues Freguey area, with adequate effectiveness. To present the draft resolution, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and of course, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have brought this matter to debate and, among the petitioners, the authors who have raised this same question. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that this petition follows the closure on December 25, 2016, Christmas Day, of 31. the Lisbon Team, i.e. the New Avenues Team. For this population, there could indeed be no worse presence of Christmas than the closure of this Team. It is important to know and remember that it is a large and central area of the city of Lisbon, where many people live, close to 30,000, and that, as services, commerce, hotels, tourism, during the day, will be attended by anything like 300 000 people. On the other hand, and recalling that this closure is due to the transfer of property to the City Hall of Lisbon itself from the premises of this Team, it should be borne in mind that this area also has problematic areas. Consider the Arch of the Blind's garden, for example, where there are known foci of prostitution, or in the area above the Santos neighborhood, where there are also some problems related to crime and even drug trafficking. Therefore, there are areas in this context that are problematic. But this area has one more thing that, for personal reasons, I know well and that is an aged population and a type of construction that allows easy access to buildings. These buildings, almost all of them, have back steps of old service and this has become a major concern when the population's numbers have begun to decline. There are few residents, because the area of services and trade has occupied a lot of space, but obviously it is a population that is weakened in its defence capacity. It should also be borne in mind that this situation is not entirely new. After closing 17 in 2008. the Team, in 2009, also closed to 31. Squad. Who had left the Minister of Internal Administration and who was the President of the City Council of Lisbon at the time? The same : Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u258	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u259	But at the time, what did Dr. António Costa do? It had adopted a unanimous decision, within the House of Commons, requiring the government of that time and its successor in the Government of Socrates, Minister Rui Pereira, a team for the New Avenues. Now, it was all different: Fernando Medina nor did I hear him, the Municipal Security Council, nor did he meet! So this makes a difference. The problem is that the issue of proximity was as serious at that time as it is today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u260	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u261	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Having support for this area coming from Penha de France, where there is only one police service car, to be able to take 30 to 45 minutes to arrive at the New Avenues, is not enough. The CDS has talked about this matter in Freguesia and the House and therefore, agreeing with the petitioners' initiative, we present a draft resolution subscribing and adhering to the idea that... [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] Mr. António Filipe, say what you say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u262	You would like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u263	...the claim of this population is fair, it is serious, makes sense. You should approve our draft resolution because it makes all the sense. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u264	Who told you we're not going to approve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u265	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, I would like to greet the 7910 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic through this petition, requesting the installation of a PSP team in the area of the new Avenues. I would like to do so, Mr President, in the person of the first subscriber, Mr Daniel Gonçalves, at the time, President of the Freguesia Board of New Avenues. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD recognises the relevance of the request made by the subscribers of this petition to Parliament. In fact, the parish of the New Avenues does not have any squad within its geographical area and this happens because the government, on the pretext of an administrative issue, closed at 31. the Squad that was located on Santos Dumont Avenue, and did so, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — it is always good to remember — on Christmas day, despite the constant assurances given to the President of the Board that this would not happen. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a little bit of history to find out how and why we got to this situation. In 2008, the existing team on João Crisostom Avenue, 17. the, was closed following a clearance action, not having been reinstalled later. In 2009, 31. the Squad, on which the petition, at the time, located on the Rue da Beneficência, was also closed with the justification of the degradation and insecurity of the property, having been, after the protests of the population, reinstalled on the Avenida Santos Dumont in municipal land. It follows, however, that following an exchange of land carried out by the City Council of Lisbon, the land would have to be handed over until 31 December 2016, so the Government, purely and simply, decided to close the station and not proceed to its resettlement. And you did it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the political complicity of the City Council of Lisbon. And this despite the assurances that it gave to the population and the autarchs that the squad would be relocated to municipal building in the same artery, which until today, 2018, did not happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case the House was wrong and the government was wrong. What's in issue here is not only this squad, but all the teams that have been closed and have not been installed again. What is at stake here is the absence of a policy of reorganization of PSP facilities in the city of Lisbon, but not only in the rest of the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we know is that, whenever there is a bureaucratic pretext — the cessation of a lease contract, the degradation of facilities — the PS simply closes the teams by not installing them again, leaving a feeling of insecurity in the populations, as happened, in this case, with the New Avenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u268	I will finish, Mr. President. According to the autoarchs and the population, in the New Avenues crime has increased. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, that the PSD considers the object of this petition to be of the greatest fairness. We are very concerned, because this government is eximilar in the impoverishment of public services and in the lack of public investment, always doing so on the basis of pretexts, I would say, in a cowardly manner, without taking it politically. This is what happened here and this is what has been going through the whole country not only in the teams but also in health. And this is what the PSD will never stop reporting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u269	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greetings, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, all the citizens who have subscribed and dynamized this petition. Despite the lack of effective, media and bad conditions of the teams, PSP has developed an important work of policing proximity and combating insecurity. The policing of proximity and the existence of teams that guarantee the safety and tranquility of the populations is of the greatest importance in the New Avenues, as, moreover, in all the parish of the city. The option of closing proximity teams is, unfortunately, not today. Moreover, PSD and CDS have already remembered him here, making a hiatus in history and time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u271	The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS recalled 2008 and 2009, it is true, but they have forgotten that in June 2014 the PSD and the CDS were government, the CFP presented a proposal at the Lisbon Municipal Assembly against the closure of the teams in the city of Lisbon. As a matter of fact, there were 14 teams that were about to close. It referred to the proposal of the CFP in 2014 : to require the Government to maintain proximity teams in the neighbourhoods of the city; to require the Government to invest in the means necessary to carry out its missions. This proposal, Mr Telmo Correia and Mrs Sandra Pereira, in 2014, had the vote against the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u272	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u273	The current PS government, unfortunately, did not follow good advice and wanted to resume this proposal from the previous government, closing the 14 teams, closure which was, in fact, suspended at a good time in the city of Lisbon, because the people stood against this intention. However, the intention remains on the table, and is to close the Arroios teams, the District of the County, in Chelas, the Quinta do Cabrinha, the Rego neighborhood, the Horta Nova neighborhood, the Padre Cruz neighborhood, the Monsanto Court, the Boa Vista District, the Long Calvary we speak. As you can see, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many teams, unfortunately, beyond those of the parish of the New Avenues. In September 2016, the CFP submitted a proposal for a frontal rejection of the intention to close any team and invest in the means necessary for PSP missions. Mrs. Members, guess who this proposal was rejected in 2016. This proposal was rejected in 2016 by PS and CDS! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, that we are against, directly against the closure of the proximity teams. We are in every parish in the city and not only in those where most are from the CDU. Also in this, because particularly in Carnide, the guarantee of the functioning of proximity teams is of the greatest importance and has had very important results, but also in all the others I have just mentioned. Therefore, the PCP, in 2008, in 2009, in 2014, in 2016 and 2018, has only one word: for the right to public services, for the right to security and tranquillity of populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u274	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and the petitioners and all those who have joined and signed Petition No 293 / XIII / 2. the, as well as the current President of the Board of Freguesia das Avenidas Novas, also present in this debate. I would also like to say that security issues in the city of Lisbon and the problems with closure or the possibility of closing teams are not a new problem. In fact, we have been accompanying, over several years, successive attempts to close several teams, many of them with a very important role in what is known as proximity police and which, in the understanding of the Left Block, has results among the populations. The truth is that we have witnessed various reorganisations of teams and effectors in the city of Lisbon. We also know, and we have been accompanied by, that these reorganisations have had problems and that they still feel these problems today, especially in response in some parts of the city. We must bear in mind that we speak not only of our own parishioners with a lot of people, but also of the parishioners who have a large number of people who attend these churches as a place of work or trade. In addition, the city of Lisbon suffers from quite a tourist pressure and therefore this increases even more the responsibility of public security and public services in general. The city of Lisbon as a whole, not only in this parish, but in all — in each one there will be and there are specificities as regards public security as well — has witnessed an increase in the population that daily uses the public space and which, of course, also needs to feel safe in that space. As I have already said, other parishes—and some examples have already been given—have presented similar problems, also with the possibility of closing some teams, and yet, compared with other cities, Lisbon is generally safe, whether for those who live here, for those who work here or for those who visit us. But it is always possible to improve and this follow-up, also at municipal level, of measures that strengthen security, not from a security point of view, because it does not solve the problem, but from a daily point of view, for example, of organisations, traders, associations of residents. The proximity police have played an important role, yes, and, in our understanding, must have an even more important role, also in conjunction with the parish board. However, this option has been somewhat relegated to the background and the closure of teams obviously does not hope for anything good for a role that is intended to be public security close to citizens and citizens. More proximity teams are needed and therefore the Left Block has always been on the people's side in claiming that there is no closure of public services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u276	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by presenting a special greeting from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to the petitioners and to say that, on public de-investment, decapitalization of public services and closure of essential services, such as the courts, some smell is required of the parties on the right, which obviously did not have in this debate. It is that the disaster left in the country was brutal, just as the cuts that affected the social state itself were brutal. I would also like to point out that Portugal is today one of the safest countries in the world, as the Global Peace Index has revealed, a revealing fact that the Portuguese State has competently ensured the defence of democratic legality and the rights of citizens in the light of our Constitution. It is also reflected in the Annual Report on Internal Security, which, between 2008 and 2017, has fallen 18, 8 % and has also fallen 8, 7 % in 2017, which also attests to the excellent performance of a complex and articulated structure, but has been able to guarantee the safety of citizens in Portugal in an integrated and effective way, and Lisbon is also no exception. As for the subject matter of the petition today under discussion, we know that the closure of 31. the Squad did not lead to significant changes in known criminal data, even highlighting the record of the decline of violent and serious crime, with fewer than 7 criminal offences in 2017, compared to 2016, and less than 57 criminal offences registered in 2017, compared to 2015. It is therefore evident that the security of the geographical area corresponding to the area of intervention of this Team and consequently the safety of citizens have not been compromised, and that the intervention of the various PSP valences has been maintained, in particular, the police of proximity and visibility, ensuring a permanent police response, in conjunction with criminal investigation. Area 31. the Squad continues to benefit from police because there is now an integrated management of available police, which includes police who had previously had to ensure the service and security of the staff building. It was, moreover, another patrol car at 5. the Police Division of COMETLIS ( Metropolitan Command of Lisbon of the PSP ) to strengthen the police and for visibility of it, whenever deemed necessary, and a mobile service post is moved to the area of 31. the Team to complement the service. The proximity to the nearest team, for personal care purposes, when necessary, is about 1000 m away. They continue, as required, and well, to be implemented the proximity programs defined by the PSP, from the Safe School to the Elderly in Security. The current team, which is new and we welcome, of the Board of Freguesia das Avenidas Novas has maintained permanent and close contact with the PSP, with the City Hall of Lisbon, with the Municipal Police, and accompanies with proactively this whole process, always in search of the best solutions for the safety of its Fregueses, with positive prospects for this process in the future. We understand that the occurrence of any criminal offence affects the public's sense of security, and also the PS Parliamentary Group will pay particular attention to this situation, in particular with regard to the reorganization of the Metropolitan Command, as well as the problems described by the petitioners, which require effective police presence and deterrence of misleading conduct, since the impact of the small crime cannot be devalued, especially among the most vulnerable. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that, in the context of the process of decentralisation, last week, the law decree on proximity police, where it will become the responsibility of the Municipal Security Council to issue an opinion on the proximity police programmes and the follow-up of directed actions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u278	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u279	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, with your tolerance. As I was saying, the Municipal Security Council will issue an opinion on the proximity police programmes and follow actions aimed at preventing and controlling juvenile crime, preventing drug addiction and analysing the social incidence of drug trafficking, so the involvement of local power in this case of the City of Lisbon will be decisive, Mr. President, in order to effectively monitor security in our beloved city of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-20.u280	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the speech of Mrs Susana Amador, we have come to the end of our work. I would remind the House that tomorrow's plenary session will start at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: in the first point, the urgent debate required by the CFP under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, on the beginning of the academic year ; the second point shall be followed by a review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII — Ensure the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( amends the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966 ) ; in the third point, there shall be a joint discussion in general of the Drafts of Law No 839 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Prevents seizures of funds in regulatory entities ( second amendment to the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) and 981 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Prohibition of seizures in regulatory entities; finally, on the fourth point, and as is the case on Fridays, we shall proceed to the statutory votes. Nothing else to deal with for today, very late to everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 59 minutes.]]
