ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is an urgent debate under Rule 74. the Rules of Procedure, required by the PCP Parliamentary Group, on public services and public-private partnerships in health. To open the debate, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group has allocated this urgent debate because it is justified to debate the health sector problems, but it is also necessary to resolve the structural problems that are at the root of the various difficulties. The right-wing policies carried out by successive governments have reduced workers, ended with specific careers, transformed hospitals into businesses, transferred patients and financial resources to the large economic groups operating in the health sector and put companies, whose purpose is profit, to manage hospital units that have the task of ensuring a global health situation of the Portuguese population. It was years of these right-wing options that weakened the National Health Service (NSS ) and promoted the dissatisfaction of professionals. Critical situations that are aggravated in specific times are recurrent, although increased demand is expected: saturated emergencies, waiting time for several hours for care, patients hospitalized in poor conditions, are several examples of hospital difficulties in Lisbon, Gaia, Amadora-Sintra, problems that are not currently but unfortunately remain. These include structural problems: waiting times far above those indicated for first consultations and surgeries, a high number of users without a family doctor, moderate rates continue to be an obstacle to access to health care, not valuing primary health care, not advancing the reorganization of the hospital network and lack of articulation between the different levels of care. Doctors, nurses, health technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants fight and complain of the government — and well — solutions to their problems. They require professional and remuneration valuations, elimination of differentiated treatments, negotiation and exploitation of careers, wage updates and hiring of professionals. These are the workers who had expectations at the end of the PSD/CDS majority in the Assembly of the Republic, who despite such mistreatment by the government of these parties ensured that the SNS would ensure a satisfactory response. That is also why professionals have aspirations and the government has an obligation to solve their problems. The demotivating of professionals, promoted by the attack on their rights, leading them to exhaustion and then to abandonment, is a way of attacking the SNS. This mechanism used by the previous Government persists. Doctors, nurses and other professionals continue to leave the SNS because they are totally demotivated and tired of not being valued. Most internal physicians don't even integrate the SNS. It is necessary to review this situation through the exploitation of workers. While this happens, many resources are distributed to health PPPs (public-private partnerships) or ADSE resources are put to exclusive service — I repeat, exclusive — of the large economic groups operating in health. Public-private partnerships are a business extension opportunity for large economic groups operating in the field of health. The advocates of private business in health justify their options with studies carried out in an economic logic that classify success for costs, but which leave aside such important issues as those of patients to whom medication is refused or replaced prescribed by the assistant doctor or transferred to public hospitals due to lack of specialties, precariousness and work overload to which workers are subject. Even recently, a study on the virtues of PPPs in Cascais and in Braga was reported at a time when they came to an end. The financial resources for PPPs have been increasing. In 2016, PPP charges increased by 3 % and in 2018 that amount will be EUR 471 million. over many years, as PPP charges increased, SNS budgets decreased. These are resources that will increase the profits of companies and should be used to requalify and consolidate the SNS. That is why the PCP rejects the PPP model, including the latest model for Lisbon, and demands its reversal. These options were specially developed by the former Government, PSD / CDS, and by the opportunity given it by the absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic and the troika to deepen the dismantling of the SNS, but were not essentially corrected, and this is a responsibility of the current PS Government. We do not ignore initial advances in the reduction of moderate rates or in the replacement of certain rights to health workers. They can count on the CFP, as has been demonstrated in the submission of proposals from the State Budget to value professionals and strengthen the SNS, but the Government and the PS have not demonstrated sufficient will to depart from the right-wing policies that led the SNS to the situation in which it is located. on the contrary, the PS has been confirming the oppositions of previous governments, notably the PSD / CDS, refused to revert to the National Hospital Health Service delivered to private entities of the social sector and, before the end of the PPP contract of Cascais, and may opt for its term, extended its operation. The PS government compacts with the PSD and CDS as to the existence of non-differentiated physicians in the SNS by not solving the problem of medical training, as proposed by the PCP. The quality of the SNS is also due to the specialization of medical professionals. The PS Government has not wanted to address the problem of chronic underfunding and has even rejected proposals from the CFP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I conclude by saying that the SNS was only possible by its triple vision, enshrined in the Constitution: general, universal and free. It was built with the aggregation of systems and health unit of different genes under the protection of the state and therefore entirely public charis. All measures to remove the SNS from its genesis contribute to it being deverted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u3	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u4	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, what is needed is a clear bet on a public service run by the State, based on its proximity to citizens and ensuring that there is no obstacle to accessibility. It is from this National Health Service that different governments have departed. That's the route that needs to be reversed. And the PS, the Government and the Portuguese know that they can count on the CFP to promote these advances. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u5	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current government has from the beginning made a commitment to the sustainability of the National Health Service and to improving access, efficiency and quality of the public service. In 2019, at the end of this Parliament, the SNS will commemorate 40 years. This efemeride is the right time to greet and remember its founders, but also the thousands of professionals who daily give their best for this public service. It is also a historic opportunity for the launch of a new proposal for a new law of health bases, which the Government will do through broad debate, discussion, also at the level of, of course, parliament, but involving civil society and the different actors, analyzing the contributions of those who, like us, intend to prepare the SNS for the coming generations, ensuring the universal access of Portuguese regardless of their economic and social condition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know well the state in which we found the SNS in 2015 and today we can say convincingly that it is better. They are independent entities that claim it, such as the Euro Health Consumer Index or the New University of Lisbon. We have reduced inequalities, as recently emphasized the report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems. Even yesterday, it was mentioned here in the plenary the SINAS (National Health Assessment System ), having evaluated 127 units with clinical excellence, the highest value ever. And the same entity recently reported the positive evolution of the number of praises with reference to the public units of the SNS. Already in January, Portugal received the congratulations of the World Health Organization for its action in the field of public health and health promotion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years, access to health has improved in all aspects. We remember the measure to reduce moderate rates, the non-emergency of patients, the allocation of family physicians to more than 94 % of Portuguese, the strengthening of responses in primary health care, in particular with regard to responses in oral health, psychology and nutrition. We remember the creation, for the first time, of places in the national network of continuous care integrated for mental health and, recently, the launch of 543 new responses in the internalization of this network. We have conducted the largest number of medical consultations and the largest number of surgeries in hospital health care, we have carried out the largest increase in statutory capital that there is memory in the hospitals-enterprise, in two tranches, one already realized and which will be completed with a second in the total value of EUR 1000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this capital injection, it will be possible in 2018 to reduce the debt to suppliers and late payments for historically low values. We're investing in the SNS. Modernization of equipment is being carried out, which in recent years has been in the process of absolute stagnation. We have an energy efficiency programme whose overall amount will reach around EUR 100 million. They are in project or construction of about 90 health centers. The international public contest was launched for the Eastern Lisbon hospital and, still this week, will be signed the portal that authorizes the launch of the Sixal hospital competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The SNS significantly increased the number of professionals. When we compare the current moment with November 2017, we find more than 6000 new professionals, liquid, therefore deducted from those who left. During the beginning of January, some 4000 young doctors were employed, representing the highest number of people in training, both in the common year and in specific training. We also announced last Saturday the extraordinary hiring of more nurses. Since the beginning of the contingency period we have hired more than 1000 new professionals, distributed among doctors, nurses and other professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the topic chosen for today's debate is public-private partnerships. The PPP model in the field of health has existed in our country since the beginning of the century and is also present in various forms in other countries of Europe. Although investment and exploitation of these units are private, access to clinical services is the same as available in the other public-sector hospitals, i.e. users have all the rights and duties provided for access to SNS. in the Program of the XXI Constitutional Government, it was registered that the Government undertakes to externally and independently assess the existing hospital experiences under the PPP regime in order to technically enable the political decision on the basis of the public interest. That's what we did, and that's what we're doing. According to the studies conducted by the Health Regulatory Authority and the coordination of the Technical Unit for Monitoring Projects of the Ministry of Finance, today we have signs that justify that tendering is made. In conclusion, we will continue to implement the Government's Programme in a responsible manner and comply with Portuguese health commitments. More than 80 % of the legislative measures have been launched and are being implemented. We will pursue a coherent way of safeguarding and respecting the public interest, aiming at the sustainability of the SNS for the benefit of access to all citizens in equal circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u7	Mrs. Members, you have the floor to speak in the first round of this debate, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have returned over two years of Socialist Party governance, the health balance is frankly negative: the absence of public health policies that reduce the burden of the disease, patients facing a National Health Service unable to respond to their needs more than evident and health professionals exhausted, tired, without conditions to work and, more importantly, revolted before the lack of recognition of their action by the guardian. Unfortunately, there are many examples that could be given by government action, but I mean only a few. Remembering-CL will be of the 7000 cancer patients who in 2016 were treated beyond the legal deadline. Too late! Recognizing the seriousness of the situation, the Health Minister said he would not happen again and turn to private people if necessary. Nothing happened! Remember-CL of the 56 patients infected with Legionella bacteria in a public management hospital here in the Lisbon district. Five of the 56 infected patients died. The Minister came to this House and said that there would be a speedy repair within the framework of civil responsibility, and so far nothing. There is a treatment that cures hepatitis C, but right now there are times to wait for access to this treatment longer than one year. in the context of work, that the PCP likes to talk so much, the promise of 35 hours a week and the contracts for all health workers continue to be a mirage until today. [[PS and PCP protests.]] About the moment we live in the National Health Service today, the Prime Minister said everything in the 15-year debate held yesterday, here, in the Assembly of the Republic. The National Health Service is under way and the Order of the Doctors recognized this very thing, saying that the contingency plans of the influenza — and said - today - are insufficient and based on wrong formulas, unable to respond to effective needs. The Order of Nurses has denounced the lack of nurses and this government continues not to want to hire them in sufficient numbers. More: when we see the objective numbers concerning hired doctors, we realize that it was this government that more doctors put on unemployment, preventing them from having access to specific training. The chaos and lack of conditions is such that it continues to increase the number of doctors who sign requests for exclusion from disciplinary responsibility. To understand the seriousness of the situation, what is at stake is the fact that there are doctors signing a role, i.e. in writing that, for ethical reasons, they are performing their function but are not being able to respond to all the care patients need due to lack of basic conditions in the National Health Service. Thus, doctors protect themselves from disciplinary processes due to lack of SNS conditions. This is the situation of the National Health Service. It's the descalabre! It is the "save who can"! In the face of all this, what is the government's response? Yesterday, António Costa, before a very clear question posed by The Greens, said that — and I quote — « what we are living will continue to live more in the coming years». In other words, the Government, the majority that governs us, assumes that, in the area of health, after having approved in the State budget the largest investment in health in relation to GDP in the last decade, that nothing will happen, nothing will change and the patients, these, as the other said, will last, because of this government, in fact, we can expect nothing. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] In view of what is happening in health, with the collapse and rupture of the National Health Service, it is asked: what is the priority of the Portuguese Communist Party? Public-private partnerships, of course! With all honesty, I don't know what scares me most as a citizen, whether it's the incompetence of who rules us, or whether it's the ideological blindness of who supports the government. It is well understood the awkwardness of the left in relation to public-private partnerships. Not only were socialist governments inaugurating all hospitals managed under the PPP regime of our country, always during the Socratic Government, as in the last State Budget, approved two months ago, the PS, the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens approved more one PPP for construction, for more than 300 million euros, a new hospital, the hospital of Lisbon Oriental, also called the hospital of All Saints. [[PSD applause.]] in the PPP of Braga, they ended access to the treatment of patients with HIV(human immunodeficiency virus) and multiple sclerosis and, in Cascais, after two months ago the Minister of Health said that it would not be necessary to extend the contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u10	Mr President, I ask for the same tolerance as you had with the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u11	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite will have time for the Bureau to decide. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying after the vote on the State budget, what the Minister did, in the darkness of his office, was to extend the PPP contract of Cascais beyond the end of the government mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u13	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. As has been said here, more than EUR 116 million will be injected into PPPs because the government will use hospitals to address the failures and failure of the state at the level of primary health care. at the level of the National Health Service, the situation is serious, so we demand answers here, and today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u15	For an intervention, Mr João Gouveia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister: The Government that integrates assumed, in its Programme, that it would be important to face the difficult challenge of the recovery and revitalization of the National Health Service. Thus, the current government, confronted with a truly anti-social process of the obvious degradation of the SNS, considered it essential to reverse it. There has been a series of SNS evaluation indicators, which have been carried out for just over two years, according to official, national and international data, including response capacity, sustainability, quality and assistance volume, which shows undeniable improvement in its functioning. Let us be intellectually honest: the problems have not all gone away — for a long time, still to be done — but it will be important to recognize that the SNS has re-emerged its strategic role in consolidating the social state. This factual reality, in our view, justifies, because it deserves, a greeting to the Ministry that you protect. Mr Minister, this Government in its Programme also assumed that it would be important to promote better management of hospitals and, in fact, committed to implementing a set of concrete measures, including an essential external evaluation, regardless of hospital experiences under public-private partnership. But there is no novelty to the fact that there are several sectors that consider these PPPs to support a competition framework that qualify as constitutional and perverse abuse because, by enhancing the fragility of the SNS, they would meet private interests. Mr Minister, in the face of these doubts that have been faced by the citizens, there is a need to raise a concrete question: what will the Government do or will continue to do to clarify and clarify that these are units that are part of a framework of economic and social rationality of complementary valuation of the National Health Service? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u17	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister: The Socialist Party does not have dogmatic concepts relating to the model of clinical, public or private management of hospitals integrated in the National Health Service. More than will, the responsibility for managing the public record is the responsibility at the time of decision-making. Thus, it is the perspective of operational efficiency and relative effectiveness, coupled with the guarantee of the provision of a quality public service, which should guide its guidance line. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, the PPPs of Cascais and Braga were the target of evaluation by the Technical Unit for Monitoring Projects ( UTAP ), appointed by the Ministry of Finance, which indicated as the continuity scenario an current model of clinical management as the most favorable for the state. After 10 years of partnership, the hospitals of Braga and Cascais generated less costs in their production compared with the group of hospitals EPE(enterprise public entities) where they are, however, aligned with the level of indicators of quality and effectiveness. Other recognized prestigious entities and national responsibilities also assessed these PPPs and reached conclusions in terms of guidance, with the scenario indicated by the UTAP. Mr Minister, what matters in this debate is the full clarification of the Portuguese regarding the management model in public-private partnership, so I put the following questions to you that reflect the effective concern of the taxpayers and users of the National Health Service : is the State spending more on this solution of public-private clinical management in Cascais and Braga? Are the Portuguese or not, the users of these units, currently being impaired at the level of access and quality of health care provided to other users? Mr Minister, on another aspect, in view of the news that private hospitals are currently closing the doors of the emergency because of the excess of patients, I would like to ask whether this is happening and whether it is considered admissible or not. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u20	I now give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In 2012, spending on public-private partnerships in health was EUR 326 million ; in 2013, it was EUR 401 million ; in 2014, it was EUR 412 million ; in 2015, it was EUR 429 million ; in 2016, it was EUR 442 million ; and in 2017, it was EUR 471 million. It is a huge expenditure and it is a huge transfer of wealth to the economic groups that operate in the field of health. It is therefore always a growing expenditure. In fact, it reminds us of a phrase that we all know: "Better than the health business alone the business of the waters", said by an administrator of the Health Light, to whom one of the public-private partnerships was delivered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u23	The Minister of Health could, and could, put an end to this unjustified expenditure and to the transfer of resources from the public to the economic groups in health — he could and may still decide not to renew contracts that have clinical management with PPPs. But that's not what you've done. In fact, it has decided, and it is wrong, to launch a new public contest to extend Cascais PPP for another 10 years; it has decided, and it is wrong, to extend the current contract of Cascais PPP for another two years, i.e. by 2020; it has decided, and it is wrong, to launch a public contest to extend Braga PPP for another 10 years. We use the expression « decided, and wrong » because there will be absurd incomes of hundreds of millions of euros, which are transferred from the budget of the National Health Service to the private groups that are operating in the field of health, when public investment is so necessary and so lacking in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u25	We recall, for example, that during 2017 they did not open competitions for the hiring of newly trained doctors in the National Health Service. There are hundreds of doctors who have trained and are waiting to join this competition. Not opening these contests is pushing doctors to the private. During 2016, the joint order between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance for the establishment of family health units ( USF ) of models A and B was not published, and the reform of primary health care certainly stagnated because this joint order was not published. We know that authorization for hiring professionals and for strengthening teams under contingency plans is currently being blocked by the Ministry of Finance. at the same time that so many millions are given to the private, how can so many million be missing for the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I put to the Minister is very simple: is it available to reverse public-private partnerships and to inject this money into the National Health Service? Yes or no? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u26	by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, you have the floor to speak, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are re-examined today the theme of Portuguese health, which is on the agenda, unfortunately, for the worst reasons. Yesterday we discussed the issue, and the CDS regretted that Mr. Prime Minister had failed the Portuguese truth about the delay in primary health care reform and the opening of USF in 2017. In fact, today the Prime Minister has been denied by the President of the National Association of Family Health Units and, in fact, sadly, the CDS was once again right. What the Minister knows is that 2017 has been the worst year since the beginning of primary health care reform and will agree that this is not consistent, at all, with the alleged priority for the health that you and your government want to be recognized. Health is not, I repeat, a political priority for this government, and the CDS has long said it and regretted it because, in fact, it is the reality, Mr Minister, and not any perception of it which confirms it. Mr Minister, even before the peak of influenza activity — I repeat, even before — and with a large number of chronic patients resorting to urgency, and this is indeed an expected reality and which must be properly framed, we have heard about promises of bed openings, contingency plans. Mr. Minister, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister announced here more and more and more human resources. It should be clarified today and here that these are non-differentiated doctors, doctors who can do little to help in a situation like this. And it is also important to say that there are missing nurses, and often the contractors are to overcome the failures of those who are down. Only beds, Minister, do not treat patients, nor do they give them the required comfort for a decent treatment. So, when is the hiring of more than 700 specialist doctors — yes, different — waiting for more than eight months for a contest? It's good to remember that the CDS already asked you about this in November. Do you remember what you said in November, Minister? He said he was opening this contest for days. When are you for, Minister? Mr Minister, if, in fact, he had fulfilled what he had announced, and he did not, perhaps we did not have this reality, that of professionals exhausted for having spent more hours, that of patients hospitalized in monkeys in the corridor more hours, to a chaos, which was expected and should not be happening. What will it be like, Minister, when we have the flu peak in a few weeks? We have long told you, Minister, that you are hostage to the Minister of Finance and we have unfortunately reasons to repeat it today. This is because, Mr Minister, in addition to the deficit and debt, it is the quality of public services that we are discussing here today, which is also a barometer of government quality, and about this much, but even a lot, there would be to be said here and in Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u28	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u29	I am concluding, Mr. President. In the face of the many problems that yesterday, too here, we have already listed, Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday, said: “ The Portuguese people get used to it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Unfortunately, of bad memory! Bad memory, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u30	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u31	So to conclude, I ask you: what will you do concretely to, by the way, with the support of the Left Block and the PCP, change this policy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u32	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u33	This is because, in fact, both we and the Portuguese are very concerned about promises that are not fulfilled, with a reality that the CDS has said it has to change and we hope it will be this time...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u34	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u35	...that the Left Block and the PCP commit to the change. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u36	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u37	Mr President, the Minister of Health of your pulpit said and gave a description of the measures that the Government has taken over recent years to improve public response. But Mr Minister, it would be good for you, and it would be appropriate to do so, which, in addition to these measures, gave a word for the resolution of situations such as that reached us at the end of December, in which a woman, who was transferred from the hospital of Lamego to the hospital of Penafiel, had to wait 22 hours to receive follow-up. Mr Minister, it was important, necessary and urgent, that if I began to implement these measures that have been announced to solve the structural problems that the National Health Service is suffering. Structural problems that we do not deny arise from the policy options that PS, PSD and CDS have taken over the years and have been greatly aggravated in the last four years of the PSD/CDS-PP government, but it is time to put an end to these measures and break this policy. Mr Minister, we have heard here today that PPPs (public-private partnership) have many virtues. Mr. Minister, all studies hide the concrete reality that users and health professionals live in PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u38	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u39	Mr Minister, according to data from the SNS portal on the PPP of Braga, for urgent patients with very priority indication, in immunoallergy, the waiting time should be 30 days, but they wait 107 days for a very urgent consultation. And I could give here several examples. Mr Minister, on the issue of capital injection, it is important that it be, here, clear whether this capital injection, which will occur in the National Health Service, is only to pay debt or whether the amounts necessary for the investment that these health units need are planned. Mr Minister, the solution to SNS problems is clearly a public management option, at the end of PPPs and a strengthening of public response at all levels of quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u40	The PCP will include all that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u41	Mr Minister, what we are asking you is whether the measure that has been announced, and which has recently been disclosed, on mercy is going to provide health care in the municipalities of the Setúbal district, is indeed the announcement of the entry into operation of Type C USF. If it is, of course, Minister : the CFP rejects this path altogether. Responses to structural problems are also due to the adoption of measures to strengthen professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u42	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u43	I conclude, Mr President, by asking the Minister to, for professionals, medical specialists who have completed their training eight months ago, say, today and here, clearly, what is the answer they have, when the competition will be opened, when they will be placed in the health units and hospitals that need them and who have to value their work and their remuneration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u44	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u45	Mr President, Minister of Health, at a time when we are living the flu peak, with the Prime Minister here in plenary admitting the existence of moments of rupture, the question is the following: what does the Government intend to do immediately to make contingency plans more suitable? More suitable to respond to the problems that health services are facing today, but also to avoid such moments of rupture in the future. Then, Mr Minister, despite the Government's efforts, the truth is that there are still many serious concerns at the level of the National Health Service. They are not now, it is true, but it is also true that they persist. And of these concerns, because of their importance and the reflection they have just had on the level of health care provision, two points: the first has to do with the lack of health professionals and the second concerns the transfer of State responsibilities to the private, with regard to the provision of health care. On the first concern, Minister, it is interesting to know what the Government has been doing at the level of human resources policy in order not only to value health professionals but also how to prevent these professionals from seeing in emigration the solution for the future of their professional activity. In this regard, I recall that a study by the Northern Regional Section of the Medical Order concluded that 50 % of doctors training in the specialty admit the possibility of emigration at the end of the boarding school. So there is every interest in knowing what the government is doing to avoid this predictable reality. On the transfer to the private sector, that is, on public-private partnerships in the field of health, Minister, we believe that the provision of health care should belong to the State, not only because it is the only way of providing quality health care to users but also because it is thus possible to guarantee the labour rights of their professionals. For this reason we do not follow the Government in the extension of the public-private partnership in Cascais for another two years, as we do not accompany the government in the new public-private partnership to the hospital in Eastern Lisbon. But the question I want to ask, Minister, concerns the public-private partnership of Braga. This partnership, as Mr Minister is certainly remembered, ends in 2019 and under the law, this year the Government will have to inform the concessionaire whether it intends to extend the concession with the current economic group, whether it will open a new competition or, finally, reverse the service to the State. Mr Minister, we believe that this was an excellent opportunity for the Government to decide on the reversal of the service, since it does not entail costs for the State in terms of compensation. I would therefore like to know what the Government is going to do about this public-private partnership, until, as it is public, this hospital is not respecting the maximum response time guaranteed in various specialties, as Mr Minister will certainly recognise.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u46	In reply, Mr Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by answering a number of questions raised by Mr. PSD Member Dr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, and allow me to do so with a small introduction of a strictly political nature. We in the Government understand the difficulty that today is to oppose this side of the House, Parliament, and that, in fact, the inability to have a firm political agenda and to have abdicated from what were the devils past concerning the imminent economic disaster, the creation of employment, the reduction of debt, until the assumption of the Presidency of the Eurogroup, despair has done — indeed, predictably and well, Mr President — to divert attention to public services. The second part, also of a political nature, is to welcome the coming of the PSD, and also of the CDS, to this active and strong defense crusade of public services, perhaps allowing one or other crocodile tears through the face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, let us then go to the facts and numbers, because I saw, with some surprise, that you, in your speech, titubated and even had a relatively difficult speech to perceive, perhaps by the nervousness of the intervention or by the will with which you had to touch in problems that do not exist. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, we will do an exercise, which is to compare November 2015 with January 2018. Facts: Let's see how we were financing, let's see how we were in human resources, let's see how we were closing services, let's see how we were coming from Portuguese to SNS. Mr. Depute, 2016 and 2017, were historical years in the number of Portuguese who came to SNS, had never come so many Portuguese to SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, Mr. Deputy, come talk about hepatitis C! ... Mr Deputy, who is part of a party that only in extremes has granted marketing authorisation and the participation of the medicine under the conditions that we sadly remember, when we have treated more than 13,000 patients today? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are you talking about treatment for cancer patients? Oh, my God! How many innovative medicines has your government approved during the four years of office? How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u48	What about availability for users? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u49	Mr Deputy, in two years we have adopted more than you in four years and many of these drugs are to treat cancer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I would say that we have withdrawn the treatment of HIV and multiple sclerosis from Braga, when what we did was to force the private operator to enter the contract of risk sharing the treatment, because his government had made an illegal order, including signed only by the Secretary of State of Health, without the coverage of finances, an order that did not under any circumstances have legal coverage! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] If the honourable Member did not know, then the reason why we today are initiating an arbitral tribunal with Braga, as we also started with Loure's partnership, with regard to the inmates, is because we do not have any sympathy or antipathy with PPPs. Mr, we have no states of soul, we seek to carry out an analysis with economic rationality and social rationality, and in this regard we also seek to comply with the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member also came with a narrative which is not proper, indeed, of his bench—but, finally, it is welcome because it refers to a certain idea of social and democratic regeneration of the PSD—which is that we do not care about the well-being of professionals. Well, we rejected everything that was to restore against your will; we introduced in the Government Programme the 35-hour work plan against your will; we increased the extraordinary hours, which you cancelled, to 100 %;... [[Rice from PSD MP Angel War.]] ...we recruited 6000 more professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, please notice, the career of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians was stopped 15 years ago and we regulated it. And, well, the hospital pharmacist career was stopped 18 years ago and we regulated it, we created the career of pre-hospital emergency technicians. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Madam Member, calm down, because you will also have your chance to speak. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u50	I'm calm! I'm adoring!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u51	Finally, Mr President, come now to ride a media wave, indeed very well built, very well built, I must say, that you are trying to give the idea to the country, introducing a greater social alarm and a greater discomfort to people, that there is chaos!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u52	Maybe it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u53	But where is chaos? It's like the devil was, sir! [[PSD protests.]] Do you know what I think, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite? Instead of going to see pictures of the worst quality, I invite you to come with me, we are both doctors, visiting the urgents of hospitals without notice, which is to avoid any hiding of patients. I am available to go with you, if you thus understand, visit, surprise, night, morning or morning, health centers and hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u54	We've been there! We don't need your invitation to go anywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u55	But I invite all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the benches, to make these visits, because we, when we see patients in maca, are not the ones we say they are very well lying and comfortable. We are restless, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are worried and we need to find a way to solve this problem. Mr President, let me ask you something that you probably don't know: do you know how many episodes per day you have the SNS today? Do you know how many citizens a day come to the SNS today? It's 200 000!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u56	What's the point? The data on the portal is zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u57	Do you know how many people come to the emergency room, Your Honor? It's 20,000! Repeat, 20,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u58	You're falsifying data. The data on the portal do not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u59	Do you know how many more Portuguese came to the emergencies this year and to the National Health Service? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Many more, Mrs. Deputies! It's good to make accounts, read books and have updated information.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u60	Budgetary engineering!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u61	Finally, to conclude, Mr President, do not go that way. An advice, if I may, of a colleague of profession, and now I speak as a doctor: do not go there, because it is an alarmist theory that is being made, a theory of building problems that actually exist focalally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u62	The Doctors' Order, the Nurses' Order...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u63	... in circumstances where demand and supply suffer peaks of tension, as is the case, Member of Parliament, in a much worse way, in the United Kingdom, Spain, Canada and the United States. We are very proud of the Portuguese SNS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u64	But it's just pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u65	... and we have a special pride in professionals who, in the front line, work under very difficult conditions and actually work in order to ensure an adequate response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr João Gouveia and Mr João Marques, allow me to answer the questions they have raised together. The external evaluation has been made, is being made and the decision to launch the tenders will always be in more advantageous conditions than those that currently exist. At no time will the State award if the conditions are not improved and, if they are not improved, it is politically reaffirmed here that, of course, these hospital units will again be integrated into the National Health Service with the total scrutiny of Parliament and with the total scrutiny of public opinion. Regarding the issue of private hospitals closing down and sending patients to the public sector, unfortunately, the government does not protect this area, the only thing it can do is investigate, if there is any fragility of a clinical or ethical nature, but this reveals clearly what is the point of response and saturation that the system, also in the private area, is having. Mr Moisés Ferreira, as regards the competitions for doctors who are already in the system — and it is good for the Portuguese to realize that these doctors who have completed their specialty are all working, are interns of speciality, only to take possession as specialists in the appropriate remuneration position – the Government has decided to join the two phases, the first and the second, and to launch, within days, the contest so that these doctors can compete and pass from prolonged specialized inmates, young specialists, to specialists in the hospital framework. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto speaks on the political priority for the government. Madam Member, is it not a political priority that is the highest public funding of the State budget for health? Oh, my God! Is it not a political priority that is the highest allocation of statutory capital? Oh, my God! Isn't political priority the biggest wave of hospital construction? Oh, my God! Is it not a political priority for the highest level of human resources? Oh, my God! Is it not a political priority to open longer integrated care beds? Oh, my God! Mr Member, I don't know what a political priority is for you! Now, there is one thing I say to you: political priority, for us, in health, is to work with the whole government to tackle one of the evils that afflicts the National Health Service, poverty and the elderly patients who arrive at hospitals that are unaccompanied, alone, sick and affected by a disease whose responsibility is largely yours,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u66	So tell me what you're going to do! Tell me what you're going to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u67	...because whoever defended the virtue of active impoverishment was VV. Ex. On the contrary, we advocate the replacement of income and the improvement of the living conditions of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u68	Primary health care and family health units remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u69	Mrs Carla Cruz, allow me to answer the question of family health units first because I think that yesterday there was a misunderstanding of Mr. Prime Minister's words, but I will explain very calmly what is on the table. The Government Programme provides for 100 USF of type B in this Legislation. The government will make 100 USF of type B in this legislature. Indeed, it was not made the order in December, it will be done this year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u70	That's not what Mr. Prime Minister said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u71	...but we'll have 100 USF of type B until the end of the legislature. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Finally, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, do not forget that yesterday Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas spoke of the study of the Health Regulatory Entity (ERS ), saying that there had been a degradation in an indicator, which was that of hotel capacity, but did not mention that in this assessment there were both public and private hospitals and forgot to say the most important part, that clinical excellence in public hospitals is the best ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u72	What about comfort, Minister? What about comfort?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u73	Mrs Carla Cruz, regarding the Mercy of Setúbal, the answer is very simple: no! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u74	Mr. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u75	It is only a matter of responding in contingency plan...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u76	And what was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u77	... and to give a temporary response to people who need consultations at the time and who can be diverted from the hospital for general clinic consultations, of course, in the outpatient clinic. This will be done, any use of Type B USF is out of question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u78	We now move on to the round of requests for further clarification. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u79	Mr. President, in fact, I felt Mr. Minister quite nervous... [[PS laughter.]] ...and I hope that it will not be an indication of a new phase of governance, because we need a calm and serene minister, as has always been used to. The Minister is very pleased to speak about the economic disaster that has been said, and unfortunately, the so-called governance disaster has, above all, been translated into health governance. Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday that there were no captivations in health. Now, that I know, and we all read the reports, there were captivating in health and this had consequences in the provision of health care in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u80	It was a personal opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u81	In fact, the Minister is looking at the portal, he is looking at the numbers, he likes to look at the numbers, but the National Health Service serves people first, and the reality of the facts, Minister, is this: the number of treatments and hospitalizations approved in monkeys in the corridors of our hospitals has been increasing. And actually...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u82	The gentlemen have closed their beds!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u83	No, Mrs. Member, the number of beds has continued to decline thanks to hospitals under PPP regime, all these partnerships inaugurated by the Socialist Party, and this is what has to be seen in this debate on public-private partnerships, which was requested by the Communist Party English. It is that, of the 10 minutes that Mr. Minister had for the answer, he used 9 minutes to respond to the PSD and CDS. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u84	To the questions of the Left Block, to the questions of The Greens, to the questions of the PCP, to the questions of the parties that support and approve the Budgets and that they pretend that nothing has to do with this there were no answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u85	He didn't want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u86	They're worried about the answer to others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u87	We continue to live in style: look at what I say, don't do as I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u88	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u89	And PPPs continue the way we see them. With regard to Braga, we still have an answer which is indeed surprising, because, as I know—but Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health can prove, or not—it was the North ARS at the time that gave its favourable support to the complementarity project for multiple sclerosis patients and for HIV patients. On the other hand, Mr Minister, I note that on the question of extending the contract to the Cascais hospital, made at the head office in the Ministry of Health, which virtually all the benches raised, Mr Minister did not answer once. at this time, in health, the disorientation is such that, already in the second phase of the mandate, already on the way to the end of the mandate, due to the absence of strategy, lack of vision, the Minister of Health decides to do what? Push with the belly, making outsourcing, a new law of health bases and waiting for the working group, one among many others, to solve its vision, the vision that this Ministry could not have. We have a serious situation in the country because we continue to fail to record effective health gains: increases in health demand are the result of people becoming increasingly ill because of the absence of public health work, either at the level of primary health care or at the level of hospital; we continue to have a National Health Service in which professionals are increasingly demotivated and are increasingly treated; and patients who need response, who do not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u90	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u91	Mr. Minister has responsibilities and he cannot continue to pretend he's all right, because he's not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u92	Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u93	Mr President, Minister, it is appropriate to say: well pray Brother Thomas, do as he says, do not do as he does!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u94	Looks like she's talking right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u95	We will revive the memory: in January 2015, the Minister returns to Parliament to explain measures against « chaos » in emergencies; in December 2014, Amadora-Sintra's emergencies with waiting time longer than 24 hours;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u96	That's what happened! That's what happened! He's been in the government for two years! Open... [[It was okay. It was all right, now it's wrong!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u97	... in January 2015, emergencies: almost third-party chaos; in February 2015, chaos in emergencies: there are "people to scream" and attacks on doctors; and, Mrs. Members, to end in April 2015, with the chaos installed, Mr. Secretary of State says, in a TVI report, as they recall : « What we saw were well-installed people(...) ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u98	Are things justified by the past? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u99	It is appropriate to say, Minister, everyone knows where the shoe is pressed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister, for four years PSD and CDS depreciated the National Health Service, demotivated health professionals, removed labor rights, demobilized professional careers,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u100	... invested in the public sector, relocated public sector resources to the private sector. From 2016 onwards, the current government has initiated a policy for the conversion of human capital, the replacement of labour rights, investment in the public sector and the replacement of professional careers. Minister, today we cannot compare what we found in 2015 with what we currently have in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u101	Well, you can scream!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u102	Mr. Minister, the National Health Service is part of the Socialist Party's genetic code. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u103	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u104	We honor our memory, honor our history and dignify our future. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] We are proud of our past and therefore our commitment to the National Health Service is absolute and intransigent. As now, whenever the Socialist Party was in the government, it strengthened the National Health Service and privileged the public interest. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] We therefore have no prejudice or resentment in these matters. Better by saying, Minister, our only prejudice has to do with the public interest and the public interest measures for better access, for greater readiness and for better quality of service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u105	The retraining, the role of the State as a regulator and supervisor and the private partner as a provider enables the State to maintain its public investment policies, allows the development of social central infrastructures, as well as the redefinition of the logic of provision, financing and provision of public services. Health PPPs are not a one-dimensional contractual model, there is a range of legal-institutional architectures, based on public objectives and interests that are proposed to achieve, and the private partner should have as a central concern the good pursuit of the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u106	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u107	Finally, Mr President, with a question to the Minister. The XXI Constitutional Government Programme refers to the evaluation of PPP hospital experiences as a way to introduce corrective, reviewable and reversible improvements. I ask you, Mr Minister, how you assess the contribution this management model has made in the legal and institutional framework of health in Portugal and how you assess, from a political point of view, the experience of these four PPPs in health. I ask you whether the users have won, whether the state has saved and whether the level of care has improved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u108	I have the indication that the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to divide the time available between Mr. Moisés Ferreira and Mr. Pedro Soares. So you have the floor, first of all, to request further clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u109	Mr President, Minister of Health, said not to have antipathy or sympathy for PPPs and that what mattered was a realistic and factual analysis of its performance and operation. Great! It's just that we don't want to have this discussion with ideological prejudice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u110	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u111	...and much less with ideological prejudice in favour of the private, which, in fact, has reigned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u113	What has reigned, when discussing PPP, is an ideological prejudice against the public and for the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u114	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u115	It is only that, if not, as explained by the following, Minister : the SNS pays public hospitals €44 for each first consultation and pays to the PPP of Cascais €79;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u116	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u117	... the SNS, for each emergency service, pays €54 to public hospitals and €69 to the PPP of Cascais ; the SNS pays, to the PPP of Cascais, €3, €62 million only to ensure the availability of emergencies, and does not pay any of this to public hospitals. It is prejudiced against the public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u119	...is ideological prejudice in favor of the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u121	And if we look at the operational indicators, including access, security, quality — they are public, it is easy to see them — we realize that there is no difference between a public hospital and a hospital managed in PPP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u122	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u123	The question therefore arises again: why, Minister, the extension to 2020 of the contract with Cascais PPP and why are you launching competitions to feed this type of PPP in Cascais and Braga for another 10 years, not prejudiced? Oh, my God! I would like to conclude by saying that the Minister is willing to review a basic law. This basic law, which is in your mind, is a basic law that strengthens the National Health Service and places the private only as a complement to the National Health Service or is it a law of bases that deepens what is wrong today, which is competition between the public and the private? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u124	Mr Soares has the floor now, too, to ask for further clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u125	Mr. President, Minister of Health, the current contract for clinical management of Braga Hospital ends on 31 August 2019. This would have been the opportunity to reverse the management of the Hospital de Braga to the public sphere, but that was not the option of the government, which decided to launch new competition for a PPP at the Hospital de Braga. Of course, José de Mello Saúde, current PPP manager of Braga, has already expressed interest in this contest. however, it is necessary to say that the audit of the Court of Auditors was clear: the PPP of the Hospital de Braga accommodates the proposals of the Ministry of Health in a simple strategy to renew the management contract, but the rational strategy relegates to the second plane the effective health needs of the population. The PPP marketing service at Braga Hospital is very strong—I know it well! — but does not, by itself, respond to the health needs of users of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u126	No, they're the doctors who answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u127	Just say that in 2015 the average waiting time in Braga for external consultations was 117 days, while at the Porto Hospital Center it was 83 days. Same situation occurred with the surgeries, with the waiting time to increase over the last few years, having been superior, for example, to the Hospital Center of Porto and the Hospital Garcia de Orta, in Almada. But I could give you several other examples, Minister, such as the transfer of patients from Braga Hospital to hospital units in Porto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u128	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u129	... changes in medication to patients with multiple sclerosis, non-fulfillment, or late onset of cancer treatment, demarcation of surgeries programmed for lack of anesthesiologists and being the hospital that has one of the largest numbers in the country of referrals to surgery checks and additional means of diagnosis carried out in external entities. Minister, you need to explain to the country, you need to explain to the users of the National Health Service what the reasons are...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u130	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u131	... which continues to have a management of public-private partnership at Braga Hospital, and the population of Braga requires a clear answer on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u132	How great it is that the Left Block has given Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u133	The floor is now also to request further clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u134	Mr President, Minister of Health, much has already been said in this debate about the current state of the SNS, but the CFP called for this debate on the subject of PPPs and we will not run away from this debate. And about this, the gentlemen. Members of the CFP, as they have already done here, fear to confuse reality with their perception, so it is always important to insist on facts and reality. Firstly, it is false to say that each euro spent on a PPP is a euro less than spent on the SNS for the simple reason that Cascais Hospitals, Vila Franca de Xira, Loures and Braga are hospitals of the SNS and therefore each euro spent on these hospitals is a euro spent on the SNS. Second fact: it is not only money spent but well spent,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... because according to the Court of Auditors, the cost per standard patient is lower in SNS hospitals in PPP. So if anything needed to be done was to increase the production of these hospitals, which would, in part, solve the problem of waiting times, which Mr. Moses Ferreira spoke here. But it is still well spent money, because recent data from SINAS (National Health Assessment System ), released last Friday and referring to 2017, demonstrate once again that hospitals in PPP meet or exceed the levels of quality established for clinical excellence, patient safety, adequacy and comfort of facilities and focus on the patient. You insist in this debate that all these facts are not true and suggest in some way that the Court of Auditors, UTAP (Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) or ERS ( Regulatory Health Entity ) are stained by any ideological bias or, at the very least, simply cannot account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u135	Don't listen, it's the users!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u136	Let Braga hear the users! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u137	You choose to ignore these facts because they defend another idea, a higher principle: the management of SNS hospitals must be done in the state and by the state, because that is what, in your view, fulfills the Constitution and better serves people. And in the case of the PCP, which brought this issue to debate, they make this defense with so much conviction that I found it interesting to see what they defended in the recent municipal elections when they applied to Loures, which, as you know, is an area served by the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, in PPP. And what was not my surprise when, in his election manifesto for the City Hall of Loures, I did not see a single line in defense of the end of PPP in Loures. [[Ah!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u138	And, moreover, not only in the manifesto but also in the letter that President Bernardino Soares, recently elected, addressed the population of Loures: not a line for its end, on the contrary, even points out what can be improved in this PPP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u139	Talk better about education than health!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u140	So, I don't understand, sirs. PCP Members : So, if you end up with PPP in Loures, like ending all PPPs, is the best thing for people, when you have an opportunity to do it with these people, don't they? Oh, my God! It's, at least, strange. What, after all, is the strength of your convictions? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] And the question is very legitimate: after all, is the PCP consistent with its convictions when it comes to votes and it is necessary to defend them among the people who are served? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u141	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u142	I will finish, Mr. President. Is it just an ideological speech or are they afraid to take vows when they present themselves to the people? Oh, my God! Finally, I would like to ask the Minister a very simple, very easy-to-answer question, just to make everyone clear and, in a further two-year debate, we are not accused of not doing the housework. Mr. Minister, in 2017, have 23 family health units opened? Yes or no? And be careful with the answer, because it will depend on whether or not Mr Prime Minister lied in Parliament yesterday. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u143	You now have the floor to request further clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u144	Mr. President, Minister of Health, health is a right, it is not a business. And PPPs are not management tools, PPPs are business opportunities for economic groups and that's why they exist. PPPs exist to deliver profits and dividends to economic groups and not to improve the quality of the services provided to users, as the CDS and PSD here have meant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u145	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u146	Does anyone have the ingenuity to consider that an economic group invests in health to lose money? Oh, my God! Does anyone think the Mello Group invests in health to lose money? Oh, my God! Does anyone have the ingenuity to consider that the business that gravitates around health is for economic groups to lose money? Oh, my God! It is not, Mr Minister, and that is why we consider that a hospital is not a business and cannot be managed as such. Human lives are not commodities and cannot be managed as a business. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Mr Minister, we would like to tell you quite frankly: the option for a public-private partnership with regard to the project, construction, financing, the exploitation of the future Eastern Lisbon hospital is a bad decision by the Government. The closure of six hospitals of the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre (São José, Capuchos, Santa Marta, Estefânia, Motherhood Alfredo da Costa and Hospital Curry Cabral) which provide services not only to the city and district but to the whole country, is a bad decision. It is a bad decision because the PPP model option for the new Eastern Lisbon hospital clearly benefits the private sector. It is a bad decision because hospital services currently provided by the six hospitals will suffer a reduction, as foreseen in the plan. It is a bad decision because we still do not know what is going to happen to the site and buildings where the six hospitals are located and the Minister knows that the pressure and speculation of real estate are very strong so that health services in these buildings are not continued.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u148	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u149	Therefore, Minister, we would like to tell you the following: the current Secretary of State for Health, at the time of other functions, concerning the construction of a new private hospital in Sintra, stated that « private operators are complementary partners to the offer of SNS ». Mr Minister, it is appropriate to say that "with my father's pants, I too am a great man"! It is that if the State does not ensure the construction of the public, the private party ensures the private offer. That is why it is not complementary, Mr Minister, to take advantage of a business, to ensure that where the State does not invest, the private sector goes and obliges users to pay an offer. Therefore, on our part, Mr Minister, we do not fully share the view of complementarity. And about Sintra hospital we would like to say that the populations of Sintra municipality have been claiming the construction of the hospital for many years under adequate conditions. Guarantee a mini-hospital, not safeguarding quality services to the second largest municipality in the country, in number of inhabitants,... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... is giving room to the private business, and the PCP cannot follow this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u151	That is why, in conclusion, Mr President, I would just like to say the following: the Minister says that he has no antipathy or sympathy for PPPs. The PCP does not either, but has the proof of life, every day, that PPPs do not serve users, do not serve the improvement of health care, do not serve health professionals, do serve, yes, the economic health groups, serve the health business and, for that, do not count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u152	Ah, count, count! He says they don't count, but they do! There are already three budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u153	To request further clarification on behalf of the Green Party, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u154	Mr President, Minister of Health, I did not get a reply to the question addressed to you about the PPP of Braga Hospital, but I hope that you will still get it during the debate. Regarding PPPs in the area of health, I wanted here to recall that the Regulatory Entity came, a few years ago, to confirm what, at least, we suspected: PPPs in the area of health do not add anything, in terms of quality of service delivery. As for the PPP of the Hospital de Braga, it was the Court of Auditors itself that came, some time ago, to denounce the increase of waiting time for consultations and surgeries. In 2015, patients waited, on average, 117 days for a consultation, which is absolutely unacceptable; today, and according to data published at the ACSS (Central Health System Administration), at Braga Hospital, a non-oncological disease surgery, for example, presents 344 days of waiting, i.e., almost one year, which is an absurd one. That is why, Mr Minister, we consider it important to tell us what the government is going to do with this PPP of the Braga Hospital, which ends for the year but, for which, the decision has to be taken this year, or at least confirms whether, in fact, the competition for a new PPP has already been launched at the Braga Hospital. Finally, Mr Minister, this is not the first time that the Greens have raised the question of the use of temporary work enterprises in the field of health, and today we do so again, because the government is, well, involved in a fight, which we believe must be serious, against job insecurity. Now, knowing that the use of temporary health-related work enterprises was a file widely used by the previous government, by the PSD/CDS government, we believe that this government should be seriously committed to putting an end to this dossier, which, in addition to other negative aspects, fosters job insecurity in its maximum exponent. It seems to us, therefore, that it would be important for the Minister today to be able to make the point of the situation with regard to this intention, which is also a commitment from this Government. In particular, it would be interesting to know where we are in the effort to reverse the tendency to resort to temporary work enterprises in the area of health, which, as I said recently, was a very used file by the previous PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u155	The Government has asked the Bureau to accumulate the 10 minutes which it has, in response to requests for clarification, with the five minutes scheduled for the end of the debate. So you have the floor Mr. Minister of Health for 15 minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u156	It's gonna be a mass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would begin by replying to Mr. PSD Member, Dr. Ricardo Baptista Leite. Mr President, the contingency plan, as you will know, is a serious, technically evaluable document prepared at the beginning of summer by the Directorate-General for Health and, of course, there will be the contingency plan for summer. This contingency plan has, at national level, in different health units, different expressions, which have to do with the epidemiological context that is going to live. For example, we know that the peak of influenza activity in the North is more intense than it is in the Central and South region. Therefore, it is a contingency plan that is activated by phases and not in blocks, and is activated in close coordination with the regions, with the ARS(regional health administrations) and, of course, with the primary hospital and health care structures. Mr. Deputie, from 1 October to today, 1000 professionals have been recruited, with a view to the contingency plan: about 500 nurses, about 300 operational assistants and just under 200 doctors. This is to reassure you and say that the contingency plan is being done with competence, with adaptability on the ground and that, of course, in the face of local realities where difficulties may arise, first, we will not hide them and we will quickly try to solve them. With regard to the issue of political vision for the legislature and the most ambitious issue of public health vision or health promotion, the honourable Member, who is also academic, could exercise law in comparison with what was the legislative production in the area of health of the Government that supported and the current government. Do not forget that your bench voted against the salt rate, so supported and so praised by the World Health Organization. But let's leave these public health issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u158	Stand aside!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u159	Maybe it's better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u160	... and we respond to the question of the Health Basics Act. Mr. Ricardo Batista Leite, therefore, thinks that taking a legislative initiative to propose legislation to the Assembly of the Republic to renew the Health Bases Act, which will be 29 years old, is a sort of political dossier, is something that is done to stay well in the photograph.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u161	It's another working group! It's for the photograph!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u162	You're wrong, sir. You know why? Because our interest is that this proposed basic health law has a broad parliamentary consensus and it will be very interesting to know, in this law preparation game, what will be the position of the new PSD,... [[Protests by PSD Deputies Angela Guerra and Ricardo Batista Leite.]] ... and also the CDS, on the question put by Mr Moisés Ferreira on how we stand before a proposal for a basic health law. With all clarity, Mr Moisés Ferreira : on the side of the SNS, on the side on which the relations between the public and the private are clarified, on the side on which strength is given to the primacy of professional careers and the preferential dedication of the professionals to the SNS. Dir-CL-I-he, Mr Member, that of the proposal which was known last Saturday, presented publicly by the founder of the SNS, Honorary President of the Socialist Party, Antonio Arnaut, and by Dr. João Semedo, we find there much that we will certainly have the ability and will to accept in a bill that the Socialist Party can subscribe to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u163	BE doesn't beat hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u164	And that is where Mr. Moses Ferreira, who will be interesting to see what the drawing is, what is the strategic design of the policies, what is the relative positioning of the parties and what is the vision we have, each of us and each of us. Members in this Chamber, regarding the greatest achievement of democracy, which was the National Health Service. And the best way to honor António Arnaut and honor the 40 years of the SNS is, in fact, to provide the country with a law of modern bases, able to adapt to the times we live, to modernity and also to the evolution and demographic transition, but, of course, a law that, having to make choices, always choose the right side, which is the side of the public service and the side of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u166	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I almost thought, for moments, that I would not ask any questions, and I confess that I would have some frustration if this did not happen, but I was very interested in the debate you had with the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u167	You did a very embarrassing thing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u168	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa asked a specific question about the USF ( family health units) of type A and type B. With regard to what Mr. Prime Minister here said, he was misinformed by us,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u169	... at the time you provided information, in the response, and referred to 23, but are 23 USF who are pre-qualified and prepared to pass to the USF of type B in the office. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u170	The clarification is made and the error has been made from the information sent to the Prime Minister by means of means sent here at the bench itself. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mr. Deputie, opened in 2016 30 USF of type A,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u171	No, no! In 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u172	They opened 30 of type A and opened 25 of type B. Therefore, there is no need to open in type B, 75 USF.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u173	The CDS is right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u174	With regard to type A USFs, as you know, there is no specific limitation and,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... therefore, these will be opened on the basis of the political option and the joint order of the Secretarys of State for Health and Finance. I now reply to Mrs Rita Rato of the Portuguese Communist Party, and allow me to give more time in the responses to the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP because in the first round I had difficulty managing time. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Member of the PCP Rita Rat, let us be clear, starting with the public-private partnership of the HLO ( Hospital de Lisboa Oriental ). The public-private partnership is an option of financing in the infrastructure plan, which has to do with the possibility of being easier for the State to guarantee financing and execute a work that is structural for the Lisbon and Tejo Valley and for the Country. We cannot continue with six old hospitals, a few hundred years old, whose operational efficiency causes the State to lose about EUR 50 million per year only because of infrastructure conditions. We have always said that there will be no reduction in beds in Lisbon because, at the Eastern Lisbon hospital, which will be a new, root hospital, will be added a nearby hospital, probably the Hospital de São José, and this will have the complementarity of beds for the region that the region needs, in particular due to the demographic ageing and the chronic disease burden of this population. As for Sintra, Mrs. Member, we have nothing to do with Sintra's private hospital, strictly nothing! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And what the Secretary of State said, as President of the ARS, was evidence and the Constitution of the Republic also says so: the private have, in relation to the State, a relationship of complementarity, if the State considers that it is necessary or useful, more than that. What we're going to have in Sintra, Mrs. Member, is a public hospital. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And we're going to have in Sintra a total renewal of Sintra health centers, which never existed in decades. As you know, Sintra health centers were of great degradation, much of them in housing buildings. I've been in Sintra for days now opening the new health center in Queluz and we're probably going to continue with these openings throughout this year. As for the fact that health is a business, or that we have a vision of PPP that prevails in the business, Mrs Deputies, the answer I will give you to the Government Programme, in which we say that the State has an obligation at every moment to define the best way to serve the public interest. If you can always do it exclusively by public means, it will be the ideal. If you find formulas that, although transitionally, in terms of, for example, public cost, are more efficient, are, as mentioned here, the approval of the population, the approval of the local authorities and effectively compare, in what are the comparison instruments, with other public entities, we do not see that an exercise should not be attempted to have in the system a public dominant in management but a private management component in the public environment that can be an element of comparison and even internal benchmark. It is in this sense that the Government Programme has been written down. We do not have, as regards the relationship with the private sector, whether it is social or purely private, any vision of exclusion. Look, in the social sector we have a very strong partnership in the area of the national integrated continuous care network, which runs very well, and we are speaking, in good truth, of private law, although in the third sector and in the social sector. What would it be like for Portugal if Portugal did not have a private pharmacy network, 2500 Community private pharmacies, for which the State transfers charges that exceed EUR 1 billion each year, of course with the distribution and marketing of medicines? As for economic rationality, social rationality, transparency in the execution of the competitions and a detailed explanation about Cascais, also for Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, however, when, at the beginning of the legislature, the issue was addressed in a committee,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u175	Do you know only about Cascais PPP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u176	... I said that Cascais, to be renewed and to be launched new contest, had to have a completely different contractual perimeter. For now, it had to include HIV/AIDS and oncology, which, as you know, in the initial contest was out. Second, it makes no sense that a woman who lives in Sintra municipality may, for reasons of maternal and child care go to Cascais, but, if she has a health problem of another type, have to go to the Amadora-Sintra hospital. We need to restructure the area of Lisboa and Tejo Valley, we need to relieve the demand burden of the Amadora-Sintra hospital and for this, Cascais is instrumental, for this, the new Sintra hospital is instrumental and, for that, the hospital of Lisbon Oriental will be decisive. Mr Pedro Soares, with regard to Braga, the questions I referred about PPPs in general are similar. We have, in the evaluation of the studies already made available, indications that they recommend a new competition. But if this competition is made and is in worse condition, or with worse proposals, than those we have or are going to place in the competition, it will not continue and hospitals will be integrated into the traditional public network, with public management. Mr António Sales referred to the question of political hypocrisy. I would say more, from the political zighuzag, because this almost year and a half that is missing for the end of the legislature, we already realize that the alpha and the omega of the opposition to our right will be the question of public services. in this matter we will have company, we will have scrutiny and we will, in fact, be all more committed to the responsibilities present and also to ensure the clearance of some past responsibilities. Mr António Sales, a legislature is a four-year period with a trajectory. He said, and very well, that we are today, in the middle of the Legislature, much better than we were in November 2015 and we want to be, as I have always said, at the end of this Legislature to celebrate the 40 years of the SNS, certainly to compare in such a way that it makes that in this debate the nerves are not, with never been, in me, because I am structurally calm, but are, indeed, in those who, recognizing with difficulty the reality, start working in an area, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said very well, of permanent confusion of reality with perception. We will continue to work with reality, Mr Commissioner, and we will leave the perception to others. To conclude, Mr José Luís Ferreira raised two important issues, temporary work and precarious work. As you know, the issue of precarious work in health is within the programme that the Government is implementing and will be resolved in due course. However, I note that there has never been such a conversion in health of contracts that end in endless contracts and that is to treat professionals well, that is to respect professionals, that is to give them stability and that is to give them confidence in the future. No government has done what the current government has done, particularly with nursing, with the conversion of precarious contracts into endless contracts, giving stability to hospitals and giving stability to professionals. As for the question of temporary work, I keep what I have always said: nothing against the existence of companies, everything against the contracting of services by the State to these companies. The path is defined: internalize, work with our resources,... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... if necessary in supplementary or extraordinary work arrangements, with more professionals in the SNS and ending as little and as little as possible with the dependence of a market that is irregular and introduces instability, lack of quality and insecurity in the National Health Service. Mr President, I believe I have answered all the questions that have been put to me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u177	You have the floor to close the debate on the representation of the Inter-Pelent Party, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has brought to this debate the concrete problems of users and health workers. These problems are not today, but have been brutally aggravated by the hands of PSD and CDS, problems that demand a different response from the current government. We have also brought to this debate the solutions that the CFP has to deal with these problems. The PSD and CDS have repeated in this debate the exercise of hypocrisy and whitening their responsibilities. After having degraded and reduced the capacity of the SNS, having transferred services and valences to the private, today, through opportunism and political calculus, they shed crocodile tears in the face of the problems that they created and ignored while they were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u180	Decades of right-wing policy and SNS attacks have led to numerous difficulties in access to health and lack of SNS response capacity. The current government has a duty to defend and recover the National Health Service. To solve the problems of the SNS, it was not enough to remove PSD and CDS from the government, it takes another health policy, which the PS government delays or refuses to implement. The high prevalence of emergency services in this period has made the serious deficiencies in health services more evident and reveals the need for structural measures to provide the National Health Service with the capacity to respond adequately to the needs of users. The measures announced so far are circumstantial and insufficient in view of the size of the investment needs in the SNS, already identified. An emergency health plan is needed that does not remain in response to the outbreak of the flu and is an emergency plan for the National Health Service that points to the global resolution of the problems identified. The resolution of these problems cannot wait for a review of the Basic Law. To be held, this will be a debate in which, obviously, the CFP will intervene autonomously and committed to ensure that the SNS resumes the original values and principles. To focus the debate on the review of the Basics Law is to divert attention from the immediate problems affecting users and health workers. The resolution of these problems does not depend on the revision of the Health Bases Act. There is nothing in the current law that prevents the government from taking steps to solve the problems of the SNS. What is needed is political will and public investment in the National Health Service and the effective guarantee of the right to health for all—a constitutional right and one of the pillars in which the democratic regime that resulted from the April Revolution is based. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The CFP will bring to the discussion an emergency health plan that will include measures to strengthen the human, financial and material resources of the National Health Service, pointing to concrete objectives. First, to put an end to the chronic underfinancing of the SNS, ensuring adequate financing, taking into account the needs of the population and considering the modernization of the equipment and the expansion of the public response capacity. Secondly, strengthening public investment, in particular with regard to the requalification and construction of health centres and the construction of the hospitals of Évora and the Seixal. The Government has already lost two years and is no longer admissible. The procedures for the construction of these hospitals must begin quickly. Thirdly, putting an end to promiscuity between the public and the private. It is necessary to stop feeding the profits of the large economic groups with the public resources that should be invested in the National Health Service. The solution is not to reduce and close in the public to open in private, nor to maintain and expand PPPs, but by their reversal and public management, as the PCP proposed in successive State budgets and PSD, PS and CDS rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u182	Fourthly, it is necessary to identify the deficiencies of doctors, nurses, health technicians, administrative and operational assistants, to contract them and to replace subcontractions and precarious links by effective public bonding, as provided for by the State Budget for 2018, on a proposal from the CFP. Fifthly, to value health professionals at the social, professional and remuneration level, through improving working conditions, replacing rights and dignity of careers. Sixth, assign family physician to all users until the end of the legislature and implement the family nurse. In seventh place, value and extend the valences of primary health care. Eighth place, move forward with the reorganization of the hospital network in the perspective of strengthening services and valences and the number of acute beds and in conjunction with the primary and continued health care, optimizing public resources and also taking into account the needs of users. In the ninth place, revoke the moderate rates and ensure the transport of non-emergency patients to all users that it needs to access health care. SNS users and professionals know that they have the PCP to break with the right-wing policy options, to defend the National Health Service and public services, to defend the right to health. We do not deviate from this commitment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u183	Mrs. Members, we move on to point two of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the projects of lein. 615 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( PSD ) and 616 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( CDS-PP ). To present the legislative initiative of the authorship of the PSD, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent amendments to the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from the national territory raised the greatest concerns of the PSD, which, in fact, expressed them vehemently in the parliamentary debate that then occurred. But it was not only the PSD that was concerned about these changes. The Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ), too, in an opinion which emerged in Parliament, almost tore apart from iron, would say, is absolutely thorough in condemning the legislative solutions that have been found. There was no need, there was no opportunity and much less merit in these amendments. These, in fact, constituted one of the most striking expressions of this PS's squirentian ideological drift and from yielding to extreme-left pressure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u185	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u186	Mr President, there has always been a broad consensus in this Parliament on these matters. The current law was proposed by the Socialist Government, was also approved by the PSD and the CDS and this three-quarter majority of Parliament repeated in 2015, when the first amendments to the same law were made. This consensus was broken by these amendments, which we now propose to repeal. It was precisely the parties that opposed this legislative policy in 2007 and 2015 that led the PS — almost by an ideological cholera — to make some changes that, when applied, gave rise to chaos that is known to everyone. The average of applications rose exponentially, the competent services that disapproved of this application confessed themselves powerless to fully carry out their duties. This added a very serious situation in the Foreign and Border Service with the resignation of its director and the public denunciation of irregularities and even, possibly, of crimes in its functioning. Then came the silence. I monitor a smoke curtain wrapped in the operation of the computer system. at this moment, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to know the exact numbers of applications for residence authorisation which have occurred since September to this day, which is extremely negative. With this initiative, the PSD only wants to return to common sense, but also to the consensus that has always existed in this area until last summer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u187	To present the legislative initiative of the authorship of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say essentially that the legislative initiative of the CDS aims, like that which has just been presented by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, in relation to the Law of Nationality, to return to the wording prior to the amendment that was made in July 2017, the date of the last version that was proposed. We intend to restore the previous version — this is the first question and the essential question — why? Because, in our view, the previous wording was in fact a correct, reasonable, sound wording consistent with what has been defended in the framework of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u190	... was a essay whose results were praised not only at the national level, but also at the international level.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u191	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u192	We have had, as regards nationality, immigration, integration of immigrants, praise for the various legislative processes and their results. I would say that since the CDS had participated in this matter in several legislative processes, almost since the beginning of the century we had several consensual diplomas, almost always between the CDS, the PS, the PSD, and there was no big problem. In other words, the 2017 amendments have come to solve, in my opinion, a problem that did not exist. There was no need to make changes, because first of all there was no such problem. And not only did they come to solve a problem that did not exist, as they actually created a new problem. This is the double error in the July 2017 legislative amendments. First, there was no need to change because the problem did not exist, and secondly, a new problem was created. The second question is obvious: why do we want to change? Why do we want to go back to the initial version so little later, and we're talking about July so far? In this case too, I say the following: if we did not propose revocation, we were accused of not doing anything, being against it; I propose, it is because we do not give sufficient weight time. In spite of everything, I would rather run the risk of being accused of not having given enough time to be accused of not having moved in a matter with which, from the point of view of the principle and its content, we do not agree. And when we go to the substance, we don't agree why? What do these amendments contain? Above all, the lower requirement, the lower rigor and even some laxism when it is allowed that the entry of foreigners into national territory is made only on the basis of a promise of employment contract and declaration to social security, rather than an effective employment contract and effective inclusion in social security, which seems to us to be a more correct and demanding requirement. On the other hand, even if the legal stay in national territory is not at issue, the fact is that, by not requiring this verification, we are reducing the capacity of the SEF to act and verify the entry and legal stay into national territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u193	If we cross these two ideas, what do we have? We have a more or less permanent mechanism in which anyone entering, whether legally or not, and having intention or promise of work, can automatically aspire to this reality, as long as we previously had a stricter system from that point of view. I am not going to stop very much on the last issue of the possibility of expulsion, which, of course, no one is calling into question. It was in the previous law that anyone who had Portuguese nationality, who had been born in Portugal or who had minor children, although not Portuguese, in Portugal, would not be the object of expulsion. But the exception to cases of serious threat to national security — and let us see the European international trend in this matter — in our view, it makes sense and in any case, in a global concern of the world — of Europe, above all — in relation, for example, to the question of terrorist threat, etc. Therefore, from our point of view, this exception should be maintained, because, in this case, it makes no sense to change the protection that is in the law, and well, and that we want our project, whether that of the PSD, remains in relation to the existence of minor children...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u194	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u195	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that from our point of view the 2017 amendments are going in the wrong direction, they were not necessary, they diminish the rigour and therefore the CDS proposes this change, maintaining a logic of coherence. We understand that there must be rigour at the entrance, in the same way that we understand vehemently, from the beginning, that there must be humanity in the integration of those who seek our country to live or to work. That is our idea and, therefore, we have introduced the bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u196	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right comes to this debate to show what you think about this. in fact, it speaks of laxism and invokes the threat that, at this moment, the country is at risk that there comes a huge mass of irregular immigrants who will live at our expense and threaten national security, as Mr Telmo Correia said recently. There is a huge effect called, the members of the CDS and PSD say. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Mrs. Members, the PSD and the CDS, in fact, have never been concerned about the risk of the effect called rich people who come to Portugal to wash money under a generous policy of granting golden visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u198	Create jobs for the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u199	On this matter, I have never heard any trace of concern from you. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They say, "Mrs." Members: « There is a need for strict entry ». Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the rigor at the entrance has days, because what you see. They come here to say that everything depends on the immigrant's wallet. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u200	If the immigrant's wallet is full — and it's not worth knowing where the money comes from —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u201	Okay, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u202	...you are generous; if the immigrant's wallet is small, poor, there it is a potential threat to national security. You have days of rigour, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u203	in fact, there is more than this: CDS and PSD come to this debate really say what they think about the issue of immigrants who are in Portugal. What you are telling them is that they want to remain irregular in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u204	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u205	You know as well as I do that there are thousands of requests for regularization and that these thousands of requests for regularization are due, as you well know, to the accumulation of immigrants in Portugal who have been forced to remain in an irregular condition. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] So when you speak of an effect called, you are simply mistifying reality, because reality is the accumulation of people here who are forced to have all their rights, because it is obliged to remain in an irregular situation. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that the amendments to the law that were adopted in mid-2017 were just a small contribution to a more decent treatment of so many thousands of people looking for Portugal to work, who here make their discounts, who contribute here to national wealth. But you don't want to know anything about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u206	They're not discounting anything! They say how, if you only have the promise of a contract? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u207	Therefore, these two bills have, from our point of view, a very clear reading: PSD and CDS remain firm in a culture of immigration reserve and we will not tolerate this position, we will not approve it. These two bills must deserve our reprobation and that of the whole country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u208	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that were presented here today by the PSD and the CDS propose the replacement of retrocesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u210	We propose the replacement of advances!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u211	It is extraordinary that you, who criticize us so much for proposing here, in the House, the replacement of rights, now — imagine! — propose non-replacement of rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u212	That's fake! You know that's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u213	...but of setbacks that were introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u214	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Telmo Korea.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u215	with regard to the PCP project approved in July... [[Continued protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Telmo Korea.]] If Mr Telmo Correia will excuse me, I will conclude. Don't bother, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u216	As long as you don't say falsehoods! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u217	What you propose to go back to the PCP bill approved in July, which has to do with the limits on the expulsion of citizens from the national territory, symptomaticly contradicts what is written in the preamble to the PSD bill. The PSD bill refers to the 2007 consensus and that the most recently approved legislation contravenes the 2007 consensus. Mr Deputy, what was included in the draft CFP law was precisely the return to the 2007 drafting... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u218	... and you broke this consensus in 2007 with the legislation that you approved in 2012, which was a real setback in fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u219	You see how true it is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u220	More importantly, Mr President, the wording adopted in a comprehensive final vote was a compromise solution that could not be restored to what we considered to be entirely fair, i.e. to return to the 2007 draft because it still maintains a safeguard against terrorist crimes, which are of such concern to VV. Ex. So neither do they have that argument. In fact, what happens is that in 2012 you passed legislation that allows someone who has been born into national territory, who has always lived in Portugal or who has minor children in charge, Portuguese nationality and residents in Portugal, to be expelled from national territory, not even on the basis of convictions, but on the basis of mere suspicions. Mrs. Members, the legislation they passed in 2012 is a Trump law before Trump! [[PCP, BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira applauded.]] Therefore, you should think about the meaning of what you approved in 2012 and, fortunately, on the basis of the proposal that we presented and on the basis of a consensus that was possible to create—and quite well the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Greens associated themselves with this solution, although you did not fully return to the 2007 draft, it actually allowed to end this inhumanity which had been enshrined in Article 135. the law of foreigners by the imposition of VV. Ex. 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u222	You have to finish, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u223	We are therefore very proud of the legislative amendment which, on our proposal, has been introduced and we believe that you should reflect on the inhumanity that you have proposed here, perhaps thinking twice about the consequences of the application of the legislation that you have approved. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u224	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think this is the time when it is important to remember wise words spoken by a Member of the Democratic Social Party, who stressed that if a party, to win elections, has to make electoralism with immigration and ethnic minorities is a worrying and weak sign. He is a Member of the Social Democratic Party with a reputation and credit in this regard, because he has followed the positive developments and the positive consensus that has been building over the years around this matter. The explanatory statement of the draft law of the Social Democratic Party claims a breakdown of consensus in this matter. I believe that we are back to consensus: the consensus of constitutional jurisprudence, the consensus of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, the consensus of the opinions which were sent to the Assembly of the Republic on the legislative initiatives submitted by VV. Ex.,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u226	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u227	... that they actually point out that approving your initiatives would mean a step back and indeed it is also, and with all respect, an exercise, I dare say, a little lazy in the analysis of the diplomas and the problems that are on the table. We have recently heard that the idea of the job contract promise is nonsense which does not reflect enough security and the guarantees necessary to ensure the treatment of these matters. Interestingly, this is a matter already provided for in the 2007 Act itself, Article 59. , paragraph 5 ( a ), as regards the issue of the residence visa, was scheduled for revision in 2012, was planned in 2015 and remains in 2017. Interestingly, in this respect never made any difference, this reference never bothered either of the two parties. Suddenly, she recovers, and with all the sense she recovers. Let us see: what is at stake is someone who can demonstrate that he has the possibility of entering into a contract of employment. What is on the table is an absolutely obvious legal figure: a promise of a contract of work that clearly has to serve the same purpose, because it effectively shows the existence of this bond. In addition, we also do not understand the revision of Article 135. the, because it really is the one in which it becomes most useful and necessary objective and concrete criteria that provide security to the applicators. That is exactly what the Public Prosecutor said in his opinion. The wording in force, which you want to change today, offers the possibility of an assessment based on more concrete and objective circumstances, favoring the constitutional adequacy of exceptions to the prohibition of coercive withdrawal. Therefore, it is a legal analysis based on structural principles of our rule of law and European heritage in these matters, which translate the one that we say again - it must be the consensus to restore in this matter. In addition, if the opinion issued by the ACM (High Commissioner for Migration) is carefully read, there also once again we show that the positions that are mirrored...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u228	Sir, excuse me. Mrs. Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group, do you not mind creating conditions for the Member to continue his intervention? [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. The opinion of the ACM reiterates the almost unanimous, almost uniform position of those who are the main recipients of this legislative amendment, because they are those people who translate the problem and who have shown that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u231	Mr Telmo Correia told us recently that we invented a problem in 2017 when the law changed. No, sir. This problem exists in many people who seek access to legalization and cannot.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u233	And that safe idea, worrying that suddenly the behaviors opened up and the world ended, no. In fact, there was a time when numerous processes were added, hundreds of requests precisely because the website...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u234	Thousands!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u235	Yes, sir, thousands. But I repeat, thousands. And why? Because the site was closed for 10 months and therefore for 10 months, no one could access the possibility of registering. As soon as the legislation was clarified, it became clear. So let us be serious in this debate and do not try to pass the idea that, suddenly, there is an amendment, when the door was closed, when it was even locked to the possibility of any formulation on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u236	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u237	I will finish, Mr. President. I believe that we have taken very important steps and what is fundamental to a serious debate on this matter is to verify and emphasize the extent to which migrant communities are important to our future. They are important because they contribute with their taxes, with their contributions to social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u238	That's not what you're in charge of!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u239	...with your sweat, daily, to build a better country. And they must be able to access Portuguese nationality when they meet the requirements. We will not deviate from this purpose. There is no security drive that will change the structural principles of how we view immigration legislation and access to Portuguese citizenship and nationality. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u240	For a second speech, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was already expected and corresponded to my expectations that if they tried to create labes and shake ghosts of extremisms, anti-immigration theses that simply do not exist in these initiatives, nor in this Parliament, nor in the Portuguese political spectrum. It's not worth trying to shake what doesn't exist, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. That, yes, is a demagogy that does not matter to anyone, much less to Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u243	Mr Delgado Alves said, if I may, a little too much, that all opinions are in favour of the amendments that have been made. They're not! The most important opinion, which is, in addition to the service which has the task of implementing these same amendments, says, and I will quote: 'These amendments are unacceptable because of the disfunctionality that brings to the consolidated regime in the European Union in the field of movement, residence and professional activity, because the rule of procedure that requires the third-country national who intends to pursue professional activity in Portugal before its entry requires the appropriate visa for this purpose'. This is the fundamental view and this is the reality that you wanted to cover up. Another reality that's being hidden...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u244	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u245	I will finish, Mr. President. I have two questions: it is very difficult to know at the moment, I repeat, how many applications for authorisation are made, because they tell us that the computer system only gives the number of requests with the complete process. by the way, it is about 30 000 at the moment. And that is not why you said it, but because these amendments have brought about the so-called effect and a lack of control, a deregulation, which is negative and which causes the greatest apprehension.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u246	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u247	Mrs. Members, especially those of the Socialist Party, think a little bit, because the changes they made, for political convenience, by ideological drag of the extreme left, broke the consensus and caused the greatest apprehensions for the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-10.u248	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the projects of lein. 615 and 616 / XIII ( 3. ( a) we have reached the end of today's agenda. Before giving the closed session, I announce that tomorrow's plenary meeting will begin, as usual, at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: from the first item there is general discussion of the projects of lein. 726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of the plant, substances and preparations of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( BE) and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the admissibility of use of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( PAN ), together with draft resolution No 1221 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse the evolution of the health impacts of cannabis use and its appropriate use for therapeutic purposes and take the measures necessary to prevent the consumption of this psychoactive substance ( PCP ). in the second point, the projects of lein.os 709 / XIII ( 3 ) will be evaluated in general. ( a ) — Consecrates the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday( 13 ). the amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens) and 710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, establishing the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ). The third point follows the joint assessment of petition No 208 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request participation in the acquisition of glucose-level measurement equipment by individuals with diabetes (Sérgio Tavares da Silva, et al.) and resolution projects 1220 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government expedite the assessment of devices and equipment for the control of diabetes mellitus ( PCP ) and 1226 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sharing of systems for monitoring and treatment of diabetes ( The Greens ). in the fourth point, we will appreciate petition No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request that follow-up in childbirth be reported to the couple ( mother and father) ( Sandra Cristina dos Santos de Oliveira, and others). of the fifth point is the joint assessment of petition No 285 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the allocation of a risk allowance to the professionals of the Public Security Police ( PSP ) ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals — ASPP / PSP, and others ) and draft resolution No 1225 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Allocation of the risk allowance to PSP ( The Greens ) professionals. Finally, we will have a scheduled period of votes, since on Friday there is no work of the whole. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
