ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. The first item on the agenda is political statements, but before that, the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, will have to give us some of the opinions that have to be voted on. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the resumption of mandate in accordance with Article 6 ( c ). the Statute of the Deputies, by Marcos Perestrello ( PS ), the electoral circle of Lisbon, ending Mr Ricardo Leon, and Mr Manuel Caldeira Cabral ( PS ), the electoral circle of Braga, ending Mrs Palmira Maciel, with effect from 15 October 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumptions and terminations concerned to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Bureau also gave the report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4(1) ( c ). Article 20 ( a ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the, all of the Statute of Deputies of João Galamba ( PS ), electoral circle of Coimbra, assuming the Deputy Cristina Maria Domingues of Jesus, and of the Member João Torres ( PS ), electoral circle of the Port, assuming the Deputy Maria of the Conceição Almeida Fernandes Loureiro, with effect from 17 October 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of the suspensions and assumptions concerned to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u6	Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request for 9. the Lisbon DIAP Section, Investigation Process No. 3178 / 16.8T9.LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Members Hugo Lopes Soares and Luís Campos Ferreira, of the PSD, to present statements within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u8	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then get on the agenda, the first item of which is political statements. I have the floor for a political statement by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Budget of the State entered the Assembly of the Republic a few days ago, but it is interesting to see how, in a few hours, the right can say everything and its opposite. from the PSD, we have Rui Rio saying that it is an electoralist budget, which gives everything to everyone, so their Members will say that it continues austerity and increases taxes. on the side of the CDS, they also say, again, that gives everything to everyone and that serves to respond to customers. Soon thereafter, Assumption Christians comes to say that he gives with one hand and takes with the other. The first conclusion of this budgetary procedure is that the right is lost in its labyrinth of past austerity. [[Earrings from the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Get rid of this, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us get rid of this and look at the budget in concrete. Regarding the question of whether it is electoralism to recover pensions, particularly those penalized by the freezing of the PSD and the CDS, we say that it is not. It's justice! Social justice done to those who worked their entire lives. With regard to the criticism that it is “to give everything to all”, when we respond to the dignity of long careers and facilitate access to early reform, we respond again with the dignity of people who know that the CDS and the PSD could only expect demagogy and austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u11	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first conclusion is this: on the right in Portugal, electoralism is everything other than submission to Brussels and submission to austerity. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But if we should not expect anything from the right in these debates, then let us see what we have achieved over these four years, in which a political majority has managed to face the right under austerity. Since 2015, the Budgets presented to this Assembly have met a fundamental factor: the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. All of them, I repeat, all of them had, on the basis of income recovery agreements and respect for rights, and this Budget is no exception to this path. We have achieved, through a hard negotiation process—it is true, as have all been so far—to achieve significant progress in people's lives. I have already talked about pensions but I will refer to another of the fundamental points of this State budget, which shows the commitment to a social state that is present in the lives of people and that builds in the present its future: lowering the tips of higher education, a fundamental measure that, in almost three decades, had never happened. I repeat, it never happened! It is the commitment of those who consider that the social state is for all, does not create a division between the rich and the poor, is a factor of solidarity in the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] A vision that breaks, it is true, with a view of the minimal state, that serves only and only to repair the injustices of the private, a state for the poor and a market for all others. That was the right view, it's not the one that's being built now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u13	To bet on a social state, which has been withdrawn from a fundamental matter to an energy transition, which is mobility. And so I would like to add that people's mobility is a real concern of this State budget, with transport passes that bring about a mobility policy that was still hostage to the past century. We know that the right doesn't realize this, it doesn't understand, because, in its lexicon, the only thing that existed, when it was about transport, was privatizing, cutting, increasing costs and always always attacking people's mobility. Now, we are in the opposite direction, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and people will feel in the skin, in a relationship between the central state, the metropolitan areas and the inter-municipal communities — the power close to the people — how it is possible to have fair policies capable of making the difference. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a State budget that also takes care of those and those who have been so weakened over time: children, poverty in our country. Therefore, there is a courage to invest where the right has cut, in the family allowance, extending its impact, saying that all children deserve the support of the State for themselves, by their own right, because that is how we see the future of our country. Social policy, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is social policy. It is these choices! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But there is a debate that we already know that the right will always come, which is the debate on the tax burden. The PSD repeats to the exhaustion that the tax burden increases, not realizing, not wanting to understand or, then, ignoring that, increasing the economy, increasing employment, it is natural that, while maintaining the tax burden, the tax revenue increases. [[You don't understand anything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u14	Percentages, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u15	But we know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the right hand was in power, this IRS would not allow a tax relief of around EUR 200 million in 2018, plus EUR 200 million in 2019. Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u16	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u17	I will now finish, Mr President. If it were this right, I would dig deep into the wages of the workers, with a tax burden as we all know the « legacy Gaspar », followed by Maria Luísa Albuquerque.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u18	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u19	That is not our choice, and that is why this Budget is quite different. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u20	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, therefore it is important to know how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u21	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u22	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the proposal for a State Budget for 2019 continues to replace rights and incomes, consolidates measures adopted in the last three budgets and incorporates new measures. Among these measures, I would like to mention three that are due to the intervention and persistence of the CFP: the increase in pensions, the freeness of school textbooks and the end of the special payment on account. Initially, two of these measures were not even accepted in the 2016 State Budget and the third was received only partially. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] But the CFP did not give up, the CFP did not resign, persisted in its struggle for the realization of these measures and this persistence gave fruit. In 2019 these measures will be fully implemented: the extraordinary increase in pensions will take place in January rather than August; the manuals will be free for all 12 years of compulsory schooling; the special payment on account disappears. Millions of pensioners and pensioners, millions of families, more than 100 000 micro and small entrepreneurs will benefit from these measures, measures which have the mark of the CFP. These and other measures, included in the State budget, which we value, because they must be valued, but we must also say that we could have gone further. Yes, he could have gone further! But this is not possible due to the options of the PS and its government, options that limit, or even prevent, the adoption of other measures that would further lead to the replacement of rights and incomes, such as the option for accelerated reduction of the deficit. At the beginning of 2018, the Government pointed to a deficit of 1, 1 % of GDP. Now it is estimated that the deficit will be 0, 3 % if we exclude the recapitalisation of the New Bank. The difference between the initial value established by the government and the foreseeable end value is 8 tenths of GDP, about EUR 1600 million, which the government has channelled to reduce the deficit and which is needed for public investment, needs to solve the problems of public services, needs to be valued at work and workers, needs to respond to the structural problems of the country. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, as he assesses this government option to speed up the budget deficit...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u24	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u25	...and, with this option, limit the response to the problems of people and the country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u26	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u27	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, it is known that between us, the Left Block and the Government, as it is public that there is a divergence between the CFP and the Government on the objectives to be presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u28	Is there? Oh, my God! There's no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u29	And the goals of the deficit — that is true! — are limitations to the democratic choices of our people. It is that they are absurd in the way they are presented and serve in fact to attack rights, public services and the future of the country. Whoever believes in public services, believes that it builds on them a vision of cohesion and solidarity, and this cements the future of the country. However, whenever this is subject to a deficit policy, it is clearly limited. Could the question be different? the answer is “may. ” It could be different, firstly, because, contrary to what the right says, that the redistribution policy exists only because there is economic growth, we are proving that believing in a redistribution policy is that it creates economic growth, and this is the great pillar that helps public accounts to be balanced. That is why the right, when it cut, took the country to recession; when we increased pensions, we eliminated cuts in wages, we managed to regain rights and distribute the country's wealth, we improved the economy, we fought unemployment, we created opportunities and the future. To believe in this path, as we believe, means that we will not become hostage to the deficit policy. Unfortunately, that is not the view of the government. So when we look at this deficit target of 0, 2 % for 2019, we think about what health would be if we didn't have this limit. How many family doctors would be available to the population if there were no such limit? What would be the debt of hospitals if there had not been this deficit limit? What would be the quality of life of people if the government had the courage to defend the country more in Brussels? I believe that these are the questions we can ask about this issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u30	For clarifications, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I noticed that the first thing you did, when you approached this Budget, that the Left Block is also co-author, in your political statement, was to talk about the CDS, in fact recognizing the role that the CDS has played, in proposing a true alternative to the Management Budget. [[All right!]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u32	I have three very specific questions to ask you. The first relates to the overtax of the ISP (charge on oil and energy products), the overtax on petrol and gasoline, which the Government, the Left Block and the PCP created in 2016, with the excuse that it was necessary, because the price of oil was falling.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u34	Then, after all, the price of oil was no longer coming down, it was rising, but the government, the Bloc and the PCP kept the overtax; now, months ago, in Parliament, they committed themselves to descending it, saying that they were not only voting in favour of the CDS proposal, because it was impossible to do so, but in the Budget, of course, certain would appear the elimination of the overtax on gas oil and gasoline. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u35	Well, sir, he didn't show up. What I want to know is whether the Left Block will vote in favour of the CDS proposal to proceed with this elimination. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u36	I would also like to know, honourable Member, whether the Left Block will vote in favour of the CDS proposal so that this Budget will not create the civil protection rate again...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u37	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u38	... and if it has always been against this rate in Lisbon, it will now enable its creation in the whole country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u39	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u41	Thirdly, this Budget proposes to do something extraordinary in relation to additional work: those who have overtime will receive more in 2019 and then pay the same in 2020. I'd like to know if the Left Block is available to restore justice in this matter and make it possible for anyone to retain less in the source, so at the end pay less IRS as well. It's just that there can't be this thing paying less in the year of elections and accounting the following year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u42	Finally, Mr President, it is inevitable that you ask this question. We heard yesterday that the Left Block was co-author,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u44	... in 2017, a Budget that will lead Portugal, in this year 2018, to the highest tax burden ever. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u45	I've answered that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u46	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u47	This is not an argument, Mr President, that is a fact! I would like to know if the State and its ruling parties are well aware of the 'problem part' of the economic growth that privates produce. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u48	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u49	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I thank you for your questions. I must say that I could not come to this debate without remembering what the CDS Budget was like. I brought, for example, 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u50	Ah! Really? Oh, my God! And I brought the troika, too? Oh, my God! Maybe, I brought it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u51	... whose title, in the news, was as follows: Courts beyond the Troika. It will be recalled that this year the IRS has always been the recordmaker of our history, as a percentage of GDP, Mrs Deputy. Even now, on the IRS, after hearing Mrs Almeida, Mr João Almeida and Mrs Assunção Cristos spoke on this matter, I thought the CDS would have voted in favour of reducing the IRS by 2018. Now, I went to see and the CDS voted against the State Budget that reduced the IRS in 2018. You voted against the State budget, Madam Member! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, as far as coherence and substantive choices are concerned, we already know that, to lower taxes, people cannot count on the CDS, but when we had the huge tax burden of Vitor Gaspar, the CDS signature was there. Who goes to people's pocket, Mrs. Member? People don't cheat and they know the CDS is part of that gang!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u52	The 2018 tax burden is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u53	But the honourable Member has asked concrete questions, to which I will answer in particular. We are talking about the IRS, because you have already answered that question and the honourable Member knows that more people pay the same generates a higher tax revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u54	Percentage of GDP! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u55	And that's good, why? Because it means there are more people working, discounting, paying taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u56	What about the percentage of GDP? Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u57	It is true that when he was in government, the CDS increased the tax revenue of IRS with more unemployment. That's, yeah, that's the fiscal billboard! But on this point, we are talking, Mrs Deputies, because I have responded to this question just now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u58	What about the other questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u59	On the civil protection rate, I reply very directly to you, Mrs Deputy: we have already told the government in the past, and we will say in the future that this is something that we will have difficulty in following up. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u60	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u61	But « the procession is still on the stand » and we can discuss this matter as well as that of the ISP, in the field of specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u62	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u63	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to congratulate you and say that with this exercise it is increasingly clear that, today, the Left Block is the party of the 'fish-fish' and you are the Member of the 'fish-fish': when it is to speak of good things, it ignites itself historically and appears; when it is to take on what is bad, it goes away and no one sees it. But, Mr President, I am not just accusing you, I am asking you to pronounce yourself and assume what is a father as well. And he is a father, yes, of the greatest tax burden ever, because never so much of the national wealth was handed over to the state and charged with taxes, as with the government supported by the Left Block. The honourable Member said: "Ah, but we did not raise taxes". False! You have increased not one, not two, not three, but several taxes. This year alone, there are 11 taxes that get worse, and I will give you some examples: fuel tax, autonomous company tax, beverage tax, stamp tax, vehicle tax, IUC, rate on plastic bags, rate on forest resources, civil protection rate. It's not one or two, it's more than 10 taxes! After all these tax increases you've made, you say: "It's fairer! » Mr Member, IRS is a progressive tax that half of the Portuguese do not pay, but half of those Portuguese, who do not pay IRS, will have to pay the increase in the tax on the fuels that you have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u65	Where is justice? Oh, my God! There are other things that you are parents and do not assume, for example, cutting public investment and captivating. With your support in this Parliament there are fewer than EUR 1500 million for public investment. If, instead of cutting into public investment, you had kept the public investment of 2015 — I don't even ask anymore! — there would be in this Parliament EUR 1500 million for hospitals, to equip civil protection, for schools, to support people with equipment and services. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] With regard to the seizures, with and with most of them, we had more than 500 million euros in final slaves. With these 500 million euros, what could be done to serve the people, honourable Member? You are also the father of the captives and the court that is degrading public services. They are also your responsibility! You have talked a lot about energy, but, Mr. Member, don't forget that...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u66	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u67	... it is also its paternity of EUR 180 million to the EDP Energies of Portugal, with the asset revaluation programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u68	How long are you gonna be holding on to that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u69	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, as much as you do, in the shadow are the costs that you have approved. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u71	Mr António Leitão Amaro, although he had two minutes, I must say that he used almost 3 minutes, which means that he exceeded 50 % of the time planned. To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u72	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, I thank you for your questions. Perhaps you don't know, but I must tell you that in this song of the "pisca-pisca", the singer says that she looks right and looks left and she doesn't cheat. We, on the right, don't look, because there's no interference on the right to lower taxes. There's no interference on the right! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Regarding the 2015 State Budget, the last of the previous legislation, news from the newspapers said — it is not an interpretation of the Left Block — that it was austerity for the Major, Relief only for some and, as far as the tax burden is concerned, it was said to have reached a « historical peak ». Do you know the difference between the tax burden expected for 2019 and, now, the tax burden for 2018 and 2015? It's about the income available to people. As I explained earlier, the fact that there are more people working and the growth rate is lower than job creation means that more people who, while paying the same, generate more tax revenue for the State. In the past, there were fewer people working, who paid much more, because the unemployment rate was much higher. There is no other rule but to evaluate the available income of families. And, Mr. Member, there is no case, I will repeat, there is no case in which someone receives less now than I received in 2015. None! [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Therefore, Mr President, if that was your only argument, then I would advise you to return to Rui Rio's argument and say that this budget is electoralist, because in this case it may have more demagogy to add. It is that, as far as the technical part is concerned, clearly, the PSD is not doing the housework. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u73	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I have to associate myself with your analysis on two issues. One of them is that, in fact, we never know very well whether the right side of this Parliament is at sea to say that the budget is 'austerity' or is at sea to say that the budget is electoralist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u75	It's the fish-fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u76	I believe that this is mainly due to a quality of the right-hand benches that we have little emphasis on, which is their creativity. For four years, the previous government, creatively, ruled on the assumption of expansionist austerity and, now, they have invented a new and very interesting concept, which will certainly give in master's theseses, which is that of electoral austerity. [[Rice from PS, BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u77	It's not true, but it's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u78	However, he pointed out that this is the fourth budget which the Government, with the support of this parliamentary majority, presents to Parliament — a result which some would consider unlikely. It is a Budget that results from negotiations which, as we all know, are difficult, but are productive for Portuguese people, because there is a communion of objectives around a set of subjects, such as the recovery of rights and incomes, or political betting, such as mobility and the selection of domains in which tax reductions are made, which are, in fact, different from those that would be selected by PSD or CDS. There are also differences, which we assume, in particular one which we in the PS consider absolutely fundamental, and I have achieved it - it has been proof of the success of this budget policy, which is that those policy objectives are met, but with this accelerated reduction of the public deficit, with these historical results in terms of consolidation of public finances,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u80	...as this is also the legacy we leave to future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u81	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u82	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, I accompany a considerable part of the intervention you have made in order to clarify. However, I must remind you of some figures that demonstrate what this path could have been and was not, by choice of the government. Budget strikes, which are basically the difference between what was budgeted—and therefore provided for in the State budget, delivered and approved in the Republic Assembly — and which was executed annually in 2016 were EUR 300 million in 2017 of EUR 1250 million and in 2018 of EUR 600 million. Overall, more than EUR 2000 million of tax leave was obtained, largely by a good performance of the economy, which, on the one hand, brought tax revenue and, on the other, reduced the number of people in unemployment and, therefore, the number of people receiving unemployment benefits, removing pressure on social security. This strike could and should have been used by the Government because it was budgeted by the Assembly of the Republic, however, the Government did not use it. It was a missed opportunity! We know that cycles in the economy do not last forever and therefore before a golden opportunity to restore quality in public services, to recover them from what was the destruction that the right left either in public school or in the National Health Service ( SNS), I believe that more than the government did.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u83	Now it is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u84	It is true that we have heard some angry voices on the right about public services, but, as I said, well, it is pure demagogy. And it's pure demagogy, because they cut, cut, cut and if they were in the government they'd continue to cut. They can't do anything else, because they don't like the social state, they prefer the market. It's your choice. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Now, whoever defends the social state, with these strikes, could and should have done more. I believe that at this time we have started the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, learning from these three years, we have the ability to further the document that the Government has given to this House for days. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u85	For the second political statement of the day, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Sunday, Portugal was hit by a hurricane that affected thousands of people and left widespread damage, which are still to be repaired, and almost at the same time witnessed the remodeling that the Prime Minister always denied and always said it would not happen. Let's start with remodeling. The Prime Minister was obliged to make the obvious: withdraw the Minister of Defence, to whom he had guaranteed his total confidence 48 hours before, after a question from the President of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u87	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u88	In fact, it was established that the new standard of government faced with difficulties: first, they begin by denying the obvious; then, they insult the opposition that confronts them with the obvious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u89	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u90	... reaffirming even the confidence of a minister who, objectively, did not have the conditions to perform his function; and finally confronted with the facts, he finally resigned the Minister. This is the new 'normal'! Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u91	The « unconditional » Azeredo Lopes passed his resignation; « the shy, but effective » Caldeira Cabral dropped his resignation; the substitute for Minister João Soares, who did not accept that advice from the Prime Minister, that ministers do not have, I quote, « personal opinions or coffee table», passed his resignation; and even the famous «take the horse from the rain that I did not resign», Adalberto Campos Fernandes was finally resigned. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u92	contrary to what the Prime Minister said, this remodeling was neither because of the country's rating, nor because of new political guidelines, nor because of the need to give more energy to the government (of all the words of the Portuguese dictionary, this was, curiously, the one chosen by one of the dismissed ones). Actually, this is not a remodeling. Actually, this is a patch in a blanket that's all she's breaking up. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u93	We have all been aware, in recent days, of what the CDS has long denounced, that the renovations of Antonio Costa, such as the governance of Antonio Costa, have only one objective and one consequence: the maintenance of personal power. in a project that was achieved with a small result, in a project that was achieved without winning the elections, we are here to do the remodeling that is missing and that is the remodeling of Prime Minister Antonio Costa. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let's go back to that area whose word was chosen by a minister who went out: the area of energy. In no government area is so obvious what is happening as in the energy sector. The energy sector is essential for Portugal, and it is a sector in which Portuguese are paying higher taxes at European level. But in this sector, in a sector where we need strong regulation, exempt, transparent and independent, what does the government do? The Prime Minister chooses to appoint a member of his political confidence for the sector regulator, the ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity), at the same time as replacing the Secretary of State for Energy with another Member, who is the Prime Minister's personal trust. We all know the thinking of the CDS on regulation: only with strong and independent regulators—independent of the regulators, but also independent of those who name them—is that we can have a social market economy working in full. Therefore, the CDS has already proposed a new model for the appointment of regulators, a model that extends the impediments, a model that gives Parliament more power, but above all a model that gives the President of the Republic more power, i.e. a model that gives more guarantees of transparency to the process. With less exemption, consumers are lost; with less independence, the government wins. We know that the model proposed by the CDS has already been rejected by the left and we now realize why the left does not want, for example, Mr President of the Republic to appoint the regulators: it is precisely to affect their exemption and independence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS was the first party to say that Mr Carlos Pereira did not have the conditions to exercise the role of regulator in the energy area. We understand that being a Member does not remove abilities or, magically, exposures. But a Member who left directly from the majority bench, where, above all, he has led decisions of difficult public understanding for this sector, decisions that have benefited even players in this sector — curiously, decisions that have been made in conjunction with the one that will be the new Secretary of State in this area —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u95	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u96	... in our understanding, it has no exemption or independence to regulate a sector with so much impact on the lives of Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Within a week we had four government members with the protection of energy, two Ministers and two State Secretaries. of the four, for none of them it was a priority to go to the ground to support the Portuguese who do not have electricity and are suffering. For none of the four it was a priority to question ERSE about what will happen next, in the face of the damage caused by Hurricane Leslie.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u99	Will the regulator take measures to force companies to compensate consumers who have lost too much time without energy? Oh, my God! Will ERSE work to ensure that repair costs won't cost our energy bill? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u100	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u101	Will ERSE evaluate the performance of companies and this performance will be measured by their ability, or lack of it, to quickly restore a service that is essential? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u103	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u104	The exemption and independence of a regulator go through it. This is no longer the case with the appointment which is now being proposed to Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u105	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u106	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u107	Let us then begin with Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mota Soares, I have no choice but to confront you with your own words. In fact, the exercise that we are now watching and that has been performed by you is exactly the same as we are attending this morning in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, that is, what is at stake are not the policies, the objectives, the goals, because what really interests people. The fulranization of politics gains maximum expression and greater expression in the CDS mouth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u109	What matters are the cases, the situations, the situations, the personal issue raised to the name of the person who is targeted and without any other objective but that of the personal attack. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We in the PS, Mr Member, are used to another kind of policy and another type of debate. What is important to us is to discuss public policies, here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the aim of healing the differences, if there are differences to heal, and to deepen the political debate. Well, Mr, it does not count on the PS to fulaniize politics nor even to scale up the cases of the nominations and indications proposed by the governments of which you were part. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u110	You know that the issue of energy is a complex issue, a relevant issue in the national economy, a matter for everyone in Portugal, political parties, Members, public actors. When I had the option to discuss energy policies and even regulation in the area of energy, what does you do? He comes to the Assembly of the Republic, discusses people and names and somehow reduces political debate to insignificance. Can you have newspaper titles? It may, but certainly does not raise the dignity of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u111	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u112	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, of course, I should like to begin by thanking you for your question, not forgetting that, with regard to remodeling, you say nothing. Until it seems that nothing has happened in the country, it even seems that Mr. Ministers left, because the CDS asked them to leave. I understand that it is a little unpleasant to talk about this matter after the Prime Minister has reiterated confidence in all of them. Adapting the popular expression here a little bit, we realize that praise in the mouth of Prime Minister Antonio Costa is guilty or, at least, a very fast way out of government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u113	But, Mr President, we are going to the essential question, which is the issue of regulation. You know that Parliament has a very important role to play in appointing regulators, which is to listen to people who are indigent. And what does the honourable Member do? Mr President, are you here to say that Mr Pereira is free to perform his duties? He didn't! Are you here to say that Mr. Carlos Pereira has a great deal of independence to perform his role? I understand why you don't come here. It was the same Mr. Carlos Pereira who negotiated with the Left Block the introduction of a rate on renewable energy, on Friday voted in favour of that rate and on Monday morning voted against that rate. And why? In the meantime, the Prime Minister gave an order to the Socialist Party's bench so that Members would change their sense of vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u114	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u115	Therefore, exemption and independence do not seem to me to exist either. Then what did you come here to talk about? Mr. Deputy's capacity? We don't make politics ad manum,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u116	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u117	... but we are very concerned about reducing the technical capacity of someone who — see, Mr! — in the curriculum, he put 10 interventions in the area of energy. We went to see these 10 interventions, and you did one after all. This is something that concerns us, because when the regulator's independence is reduced, consumers pay. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u118	When the regulator's independence is reduced, it may be very nice for government members, even for those who have been comrades of the same regulator for a long time, but we know that who is concerned is the market, and a market that is not independently regulated and exempt is always a distorted market. That is why you live together well and that is why this bench does not live well. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u119	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u120	Mr President, Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to congratulate you on the issues you have brought here today. With regard to remodeling, I will now be quite synthetic, because the way you described it was so enlightening that I would just like to comment: it seems that our Prime Minister is a chairman of a football club, because he says "This coach is here stone and which, this coach does not go out" and 48 hours later there is no minister, there is no coach, there is nothing and, more, in a circumstance where they leave a Council of Ministers where they have been preparing for hours and hours and approving a Budget, so as not to execute it, to come to others execute it. But you do well to bring up a very important issue, which is that of the Regulatory Energy Services Unit. It is that a regulatory entity is not a public institute, it is not a general directorate, it has its own legislation and it is very independent — independence from regulated and independence from political power. Only in this way will we have strong regulatory entities capable of defending the interests of the weaker, able to defend the interests of the market. And who are the market users? We are each of us who, at the end of the month, pay the bill. But, Mr President, the truth is, on the one hand, we are not surprised. It is that this government does not like independent entities, in fact, hates them. We remember the attacks on Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal — let us not forget! — or even to the President of the Higher Council on Public Finance. What a search this majority has made around her! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u121	We still recall the sad episode around the Attorney General of the Republic. That is why the government does not like independent entities! He doesn't like it! And that is why you have this temptation for absolute control. Even in regulatory entities rather than putting a political commissioner in place - this is what it is — paying and solving partisan problems within the PS with repercussions in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. And here we are all to realize that this is not so! But, Mr President, you are right about something that I have also been concerned about: in addition to the curriculum being inadequate and the absolute lack of knowledge of basic energy issues, which are not even important issues such as the international treaties signed by Portugal, which have an impact on the bill of energy today, we have found that Mr Carlos Pereira has not even been able to answer, even saying 'I do not know'! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u122	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u123	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Starting with the issue of remodeling, I must say that we are very concerned about the following: I said, a little while ago, that within a week, we had two ministers and two state secretaries with the protection of energy, which gives four. However, none of these four were concerned about being with the people who are currently suffering the consequences of a hurricane that struck thousands of people, especially in the Central Region — whom Mr and I know well — and about telling those people what it would seem to be obvious to me, that is, the state will do everything to, as quickly as possible, restore normality to a hurricane, which is not a normal circumstance. Mr President, I am concerned that, until now, the government has not taken care of the fact that, with the regulator, it has ensured issues that are absolutely crucial. I don't think I'm going to worry about the fact that each of us is going to weigh the consequences of what happened, but I didn't see the government, which has that ability, concerned, with the regulator, to defend consumers, and the government, I repeat, has that possibility. I have not yet seen the government, for example, talk about matters as revealing as whether the quality of the service that is being provided to people, the quality of repair, the speed or lack of it will or will not affect, structurally, the evaluation of companies and what they are doing. Mr Deputy, on the question of ERSE, I agree with you. This government has shown that it is bad with the exemption of regulators, but it is also up to us to defend those same regulators, because the protection of regulators is the protection of consumers. We know the weight that the energy bill has in Portugal. For example, we know the burden of taxation on the car sector in Portugal. Taxation in the automotive sector will become analyzed by ERSE, which will receive the content of the regulatory entity of the energy markets. We're going to have someone there who thinks the taxes on gasoline and gas oil, the famous ISP (charge on petroleum products), are not enough yet, they should still rise more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u124	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u125	Therefore, our question is not personal—I do not enter into the political and partisan questions of the honourable Member—it is a matter of guaranteeing or not their exemption and independence, and that is what we believe to be affected. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u126	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for clarification, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u127	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the years of this legislation, in the energy sector, in particular in the electricity sector, were marked by a huge difference: from then on, we stopped having the tariff increases of 3 % per year that we had during the PSD / CDS government and, to a large extent, the good news for consumers arose from bold measures that were negotiated with the parties on the left and implemented by this government, by Secretary of State Jorge Seguro Sanches. The social energy tariff for electricity companies, the end of the power guarantee, the final adjustment has passed from the hands of EDP ( Electricity of Portugal ) and REN ( National Electric Network) to the hands of the Energy Services Regulatory Entity, the cancellation of innovative aspects that have been added to the CMEC regime ( Costs for Maintenance of the Contractual Balance ), with prejudice to consumers, the opening of diversified sources of contribution to the elimination of tariff debt, beginning with the renewable producers who were now exempt, all this has made the Secretary of State of Energy Jorge Seguro Sanches a huge aversion of the part of electricity companies, such as threats, permanent litigation... We were therefore seized when we had news of their replacement. What concerns us, above all, more than those who have the money in charge of it, is what will be done with that responsibility. There are several pending files of which the CDS did not talk about and it was about them that I would like to draw attention to Mr. It is about to decide the reversal for consumers of EUR 140 million of double subsidy received by wind producers and which has been pending for a year, a year and a half, to be recovered. What will the new Secretary of State for Energy do with this file? The issue of the manipulation of system service markets by EDP is still pending. It has been set at EUR 78 million to restore to consumers. That issue is not settled. What will the new Secretary of State do? That's what worries us. We are also concerned about the availability of the new Secretary of State, as well as the capacity and political will he will have to take into account, looking at the conclusions to arrive at the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income in the Electrical Sector, taking this legacy and bringing it forward. We will see what it will be and what conclusions it will draw from this Committee of Inquiry. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u128	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u129	We know the CDS has always dealt badly with the pressure. When the former Secretary of State of Energy Henrique Gomes fell, pushed by the electrics, he did not hear a pio on the side of the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u130	That's the one! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u131	... but today he is concerned about this change in the composition of the government and that only obliges him to say what he thinks about these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u132	Mr President, you have to complete your request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u133	What does the CDS think about the responsibilities of the new Secretary of State in these matters? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u134	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u135	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, I am grateful for the questions you have raised, which are very relevant. Let's start at the beginning. The honourable Member spoke of a number of matters which the former Secretary of State had taken and which were worth it, by the way, not the aversion of the companies in the sector, but the aversion of the Prime Minister, who took it from the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u136	It is clear that those who do not deal well with the pressure are not the CDS, who do not deal well with the pressure is the Government, who took away the Secretary of State who took a set of options which he thinks are very relevant and some of them even came from previous governments such as the social rate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, I would also like to ask you the following question: the person who is individed to ERSE is the person who, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, negotiated with the Left Block — even if I admit it was with the honourable Member — the introduction last year of a rate on renewables, applying the EESC (extraordinary contribution on the energy sector) to renewables.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u137	Wrong! The Left Block negotiates with the Government, it is not with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u138	This proposal was considered here in the Assembly of the Republic, it was voted in favour here on Friday and on Monday, after the Prime Minister had told the Socialist Party that they could not vote in favour. Members who had negotiated this proposal made a flac cop behind and voted against. I ask you very objectively: does the honourable Member think that a Member who has acted this way has the exemption to say that not the Prime Minister if he is ever in ERSE to make a decision? We are very concerned because ERSE has a very important power in this sector. I see now that the Left Block is not concerned about this issue. The CDS handles the pressure well, it seems to me that the one who does not deal very well with the pressure is the Left Block and Mr. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u139	For a final request for clarification to Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, we have noted with great interest and with great attention this exaggeration criticism of the governmental remodeling of a party with special property on the subject, which is the party of the famous « irrevocable resignation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u141	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u142	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u143	First of all, we wanted to stress that, being a finding of what is obvious, it is always important to remember that the remodeling of the Government is of the strict decision of the Prime Minister, but for the CFP, in addition to the personal perspective of each member of the Government and how it translates into their ministerial folders, what is decisive is the policy of the Government. With or without remodeling, what really matters is that government policy responds to the problems that are placed in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u145	However, this response continues to be postponed in critical areas, which are an example of the issues related to the life and rights of those who work, the affirmation of our sovereign development and the effective exploitation of public services, particularly in those areas that are crucial to our economy. But what is clear is that in all these matters, when one decides on these issues, when someone says « kill», the CDS and PSD say « spola» and all the political options that the PSD and CDS have carried out, whether in the area of energy, or in all other areas of governance, have been subservient to the interests of the economic groups and the impoverishment of the vast majority of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u147	That is why, once again, we stress with all clarity that the essential are the political options, the interests that are defended, are the concrete political decisions. And there we agree, Mr President, your history speaks for itself, even when the subject is about appointments to regulatory entities. He said: "This is a scandal! A Member who leaves the parliamentary board and goes to a regulatory entity». The honourable Member will find an equivocal character or an impediment which he has not seen before. In fact, we have always stressed that political activity and the exercise of political positions cannot be an impediment or an impediment factor for a citizen who is diminished in his capacity to perform these functions, but what is true is that in 2011 a PSD deputy was in the Assembly of the Republic and a few months later he was in the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u148	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u149	Sir, time's up. You must complete your request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u150	I will finish, Madam President. I recall the recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic that was disrespected by the Government by appointing someone from ANA-Aeroports for ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Agency ). Finally, Madam President, I would like to leave a reference which cannot be left to be made: it is curious that, with regard to the damage caused by the weather, with the cut-off of energy to the populations, he has brought to the plenary what we brought to the Commission in the morning, which is to know what to do about what is happening to the populations who are without electricity. I remember that this week we were in the affected regions and, by the way, we didn't see you there! But also we haven't seen you eight years ago, in 2010 when you were in government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u151	Mr. Deputies, please finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u152	...and there was a similar case in which people stayed for weeks without energy. The government that you were part of did not appear there either. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u153	Mr. Deputies, you spent 3 minutes and 11 seconds asking your question. To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u154	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr President, let us start with the subject of regulation, because it is a very important matter. Let me explain to you, because I think it is important, the difference between the Regulatory Entity of Social Communication, which is provided for in our Constitution and which is — Mr, I do not know whether the law has been read — elected by Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u156	... elected by the honourable Member and all the Members and all the Members. Members who sit here, and a market regulator, who is appointed by the government. I don't know if you understand the difference between one thing and another! Is that what you're talking about? He spoke of a Member of the Social Democratic Party, but he could also have spoken of a Member of the Socialist Party who also carried out a mandate there. The big difference is that these two Members were elected in Parliament on lists that still need two thirds of the votes. I therefore hope that you will understand the difference between a regulation which is elected in Parliament and a regulation which is indicated by the Government. Mr President, what is serious is that, in this case, this indication is the indication of someone who, once again I say, does not move the name of the person, moves us the conditions that the person has or ceases to have for the free exercise of his mandate. Well, that's actually the big problem! But, Mr President, I would like to thank you for this: this Parliament, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that you and I are part of it, has already had to decide on very similar issues. We had to speak on two names of two persons designated by the government for a regulator in the case of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), in which Mr and I found the same, i.e. two people working in companies in the sector should not leave directly from companies in the sector to the regulator. in the same way that I believe that someone who is supporting the majority who works directly with the government, who responds to government orders as to the sense of vote, should not go directly to the regulator. The question is exactly the same. That is why what is at stake is the political option of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u157	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u158	It is not only the political option of the government, it is the political option of the Portuguese Communist Party. The Prime Minister said here last week that he will pay a lot of attention to what Parliament tells him. If the Communist Party and the Left Block understand—well! — that there is a problem with exemption and independence, we know that it is possible to safeguard the exemption and independence of ERSE. That matter, Mr President, is in your hands which, above all, is the Rapporteur. Let's see what the policy of the Portuguese Communist Party is after all, let's see if it's a patriotic policy, as you often say. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u159	And on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u160	We will continue with the political statements Mr. João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year after the fateful fires that devastated the Centre region with its brute consequences last year, the CFP again moved to the districts of Aveiro, Coimbra, Leiria and Viseu to give visibility to their problems, the structural causes that were at its origin and the answers that are needed to ensure the protection of the forest, the rural world and regional development in the promotion of employment, public investment, the defence of public services and the State's unconcentrated structures, as well as the protection of family agriculture in its multiple functions. We have spoken to the victims — we stress, Mr President and Mrs President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the victims. Once again, we confirmed that those who were brutally hit by the fires of October 2017 were already victims of four decades of right-wing policy that the PS, the PSD and the CDS played a role and that despised and destroyed family agriculture and the rural world and became victims of these fires again. That is why we want to make it clear that, on our part, we do not feed, or accept, the campaigns that aim to turn these victims into culprits, first, and then vicarists. The elements collected on the ground point to the huge gap that separates the reality from the government-announced festival of measures. Indeed, there is no contradiction between the announcements of pump and the circumstance of combating desertification, of policies to support the interior and then there is no answer to people's specific problems. Otherwise, let's see: one year waiting to see the works of houses completely destroyed is too long, and that's the situation of dozens of families preparing to spend the second Christmas away from their homes; the absence of a response, from the central administration, to support the reconstruction of the second houses means not knowing what these represent of dynamics that fight the own depopulation process; we continue to record numerous cases of farmers who did not have access to the support announced by the government. The situations are very varied, but, whether by ignorance, by confusion of the successive announcements, by the inability of the services, by reason of the absence of the country or even of the disease, the truth is that for each victim who is not supported there is another contribution to abandonment, desertification, to the disinterest. Well the Minister of Agriculture may advise the reading of the colorful graphics of the IFAP page ( Institute of Financing for Agriculture and Fisheries ). The truth is that between what was lost in the fire and the aid that farmers applied for is a giant step, compared with the bureaucracy, complex processes and high requirements. Between that and what has been approved, it is going to be a huge leap, even though most farmers have no idea what they have been and why they have been cut off. And between that and what will be executed there will be another difference. The balance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will always be negative, keeping more people out of your land. And without people it is not possible to manage the forest. It is necessary to create jobs with rights and to defend productive activities, as well as it needs an alternative policy that breaks with the options of PS, PSD and CDS that were at the origin of the gross events of last year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, defending the forest and the rural world, beyond the guarantee of its ordination and the commitment to the valorisation of national production and economic diversity, improving income for owners and defending agricultural and family forestry production, requires an alternative policy that defends employment, public services and the State's deconcentrated structures. We've been on the ground. How many agrarian areas have seen its operation strengthened? None! How many public services have been reopened? None! On the contrary, the closure of stations of the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) and of schools of 1. the cycle. Another agroforestry policy is needed, a CAP (common agricultural policy) compatible with family farming and the rural world of mini-funddio is needed, an effective regional development with investment in agriculture and forestry is required. And on the ground, what's going on? What measures are being taken for small agriculture and livestock? There is no new measure! One of the consequences of the fires, now visible, is the natural regeneration of thousands and thousands of eucalyptus. Not only from the burnt trees, but also from their seed projection capacity, what is seen on the ground is that the eucalyptus grows uncontrollably, becoming the dominant tree in all the burnt areas. Here too, you are only seeing eucalyptus grow, seeing and pushing the responsibilities above the farmers. For the CFP, the Government is not responding to the problems of the Portuguese forest. The worst thing is, since the government is convinced that it is in the right way, sooner or later, it will never take the lead. The result? The result is what is known: of every passing year, disaster and disaster occur, as has happened this year in Monchique. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As if the serious consequences of the fires were not enough, another disaster came to such a sharp region—we refer to the passage of the tuf of Leslie to Portugal last Saturday and Sunday. The CFP expresses its solidarity with the affected populations in view of the size of the damage, particularly in farms, buildings and infrastructures, but also due to the social impacts they place. It is now time to make a quick recovery of losses and define the necessary support lines for the rapid restoration of public and social services and of fundamental elements to the collective functioning or productive structures. To highlight the absolute priority that must be given to the replacement of electricity supply, which is also essential for water supply, as well as all communications, by the impacts it has on the day-to-day populations. in this sense, it is important to create conditions for simplification of processes that ensure the rapid replacement of productive potential and support for significant income losses, particularly for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u162	Mr João Dias, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u163	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u164	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, would like to associate myself with the words which you have just spoken in general but, in particular, to those you spoke at the final stage of your intervention, in which your attention was directed to the devastating effects of the Leslie storm crossing over the Central Country region, in particular on Coimbra, the district by which I was elected. I would therefore also like to express here, on behalf of my Parliamentary Group, very much solidarity with the people, people, economic units, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, authorities, firefighters, civil society institutions, with all the society currently deprived of essential goods and horizons and struggling to create alternatives. I myself had the opportunity to try to have a perception on the ground of this reality and the trail of destruction is absolutely devastating in Soure, in Figueira da Foz, in Montemor-o-O Veil, in Coimbra, in Cantanhede, finally, a little across our region. This time is therefore the time of climate change and here is dramatic proof that it is. There are several ways to deny climate change, it is not necessary to deny them in the thesis. Sometimes the worst denial is that of practice, for example insisting on oil exploration and at the same time saying that climate change is being combated. But this time is, above all, the time of relief. It is therefore necessary to respond to the needs of those who have been deprived of the essentials. The populations live the perplexity of the lack of electricity that has been maintained for days, with essential deprivations for their lives and their activity. It is therefore necessary, Mr João Dias, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we all here assume responsibility for responding to these needs. We, the Left Block Parliamentary Group, believe that the Municipal Emergency Fund is certainly a very important and decisive instrument for responding essentially to all this. This people, the people of the central region of the country — all the people of Portugal but especially the people of the central region of the country — have already suffered too much. There must be answers, and immediate answers. Therefore, by associating myself with the words of the honourable Member and congratulating him on what he said, I just wanted to leave him two questions. First, is the CFP's Parliamentary Group associated with this view that the budgetary instruments, including the Municipal Emergency Fund, are priority to respond to this situation, which implies mobilisation of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u166	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u167	I will finish, Madam President. Secondly, what other instruments does the honourable Member believe that we should be able to help ensure that the response to our people meets these responsibilities? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u168	To make requests for clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, Portugal has been slaughtered by different disasters and, at times, what should not happen and in scale and intensity not yet experienced. The challenge lies in doing what needs to be done. Today, we have reports, experts, technical committees that must be taken into account. The State is indemnifying the victims and families, implementing support systems, organizing a new legislative framework, bringing about the justice of the offenders, where appropriate, and putting them seriously, carrying out reforms, with measures also approved by the Assembly of the Republic, mobilizing the Government, the authorities and the owners to engage and immediately do what has not been done and it is important to do. It is important to move on to the next stage, where everyone assumes their responsibilities: reorganizing structures, learning from mistakes, mobilizing the country and building an inclusive solution. Mr João Dias, we have taken good note of your intervention and concern. We know that we are in the presence of processes of great size and complexity that will certainly have limitations and that it is important to correct. However, as you know, yesterday in this Parliament, at the hearing, the President of the REVITA Fund. The President gave a very comprehensive account of the support and procedures that are on the ground, but he also told us, in view of the doubts that have recently been raised, that until yesterday the REVITA Fund had not received any full complaints. Don't you think this information is strange? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u170	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u171	Madam President, first of all I should like to thank the questions that have been put to me by the honourable Members. Deputies José Manuel Pureza and João Castro. Mr José Manuel Pureza, the CFP, although bringing the issue of the devastation caused by this hurricane at the end of the week, is concerned above all with another catastrophic occurrence in a region that had already been sunny last year, almost decimated to zero, and which now, having already been restored from a rather serious situation, has ended up being affected by a catastrophe that has again reduced to zero crops and plantations, taking back on yield. In fact, the problem is that of safeguarding the rural world and family farming. Of course, the CFP is concerned about the fact that these producers have support, but it is up to the government to establish and define effective support measures on the ground. The Government must stop intending, advertising and advertising and move to effective measures on the ground, where populations, farmers and producers feel that they are being supported, because what is at stake is the income and flow of their products. in this case, it was the productive capacity that was involved, having the possibility that, in the coming times, they could not restore their production capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u173	Mr. João Castro, the CFP is concerned and does not compact, as I told you yesterday, with illegalities and irregularities. If, in these cases associated with the support to the victims of the fires, there have indeed been situations of illegality and irregularity, then it is evaluated, that it is investigated and that it acts. But with this, we cannot enter into a speech in which people are all vigarists, in which victims are all vigarists, because what we should be discussing is not what happened or just if someone has been watching someone or not. What we should be discussing is how many people still can't use their homes, how many homes are to be recovered, how many second houses are still to be recovered, how many people have stayed away from their losses, because these people, Mr. Deputies, keep the rural world and the active interior, with blood, sweat and tears. To them we owe a patriotic act, to them we owe the act of combating depopulation, because it is with the fixation of these people who fight against depopulation. We must therefore not create obstacles or barriers to support, but facilitate them. According to the government, no one was left out of support. So now I return the question: is the PS available to facilitate the reopening of simplified applications so that people can apply for support for the losses they have actually had? What's the difficulty? What's the matter? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u174	We shall continue with the requests for clarification to Mr João Dias. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u175	Mr President, Mr João Dias, I have listened carefully to the statements made by the rostrum and I agree with many of the statements made there. In addition, the CDS has questioned the Government many times about the lack of support for farmers and families affected by last year's fires. I would therefore like to ask you two or three simple questions, Mr President. What do you think of the very recent statements by the Minister of Agriculture when he says, for example, that the proliferation of eucalyptuses is the responsibility of the owners, knowing that the government has not invested, has not opened competitions for investments in forests and burned areas? What do you think of the proposal in the State budget that this year is going to run EUR 100 million from the RDP (Rural Development Programme) for forests? And moreover, honourable Member, how is the CFP planning to vote on the proposal from the State Budget providing for a deduction of €450 for those who invest in a forest saving plan?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u177	Because, Mr. Deputies, the CDS has submitted, since 2016, a proposal for a forest management account that allows investment in the forest. Still in the State Budget for this year, the CDS presented a proposal for deduction to the collection of 1250 €, against which the PCP voted. So, honourable Member, in a coherent logic, it seems to me that €1250 is much more than €450, so I would like to know why the CFP voted against our proposal last year and how it will vote this year. Finally, I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that the CDS agrees with the decision to move from VAT (value added tax) 6 % to forest service operations because they embarrass the cleaning work of the forest to the final consumer. What is strange is the fact that Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs only authorized this rule this year, see, only at the end of the period of cleaning of forest land! In fact, this year we have already seen this option included in the proposal for a State Budget, so I wonder what the CFP thinks of the fact that the Government's decision has already been taken by the end of the period for the cleaning of forest land. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u178	For a final request for clarification, Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u179	Madam President, Mr João Dias, I welcome you for your speech. I say more: I congratulate you for your intervention. The honourable Member has acted like a true Member of the opposition, but it happens that the honourable Member is not the opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u181	The honourable Member and his Parliamentary Group are responsible for a government that is not responding to the problems of Portuguese forestry and agriculture, as you said. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the honourable Member is part of a Parliamentary Group which supported and imposed a forest reform against knowledge, against knowledge, against forest owners and against the forest sector. The forest reform that your Parliamentary Group has supported and which has been implemented has been a real attack on the rural world. The government has made a real deal with the forest sector! Mr President, it is part of a Parliamentary Group that supports a government that has refused to strengthen the media when the climate conditions indicated a serious danger of fire. This was a year ago! If the government had not refused the resources requested, we might not have had the scourge we had. Mr President, at the moment the Central Region is going through a devastation. Hurricane Leslie particularly left the Central area, in particular the district of Coimbra, in a state of disaster ; moreover, some autarchs even speak of « public calamity ». Support must be given to affected people, support must be given to farmers, support must be given to industrialists who have seen their activity affected! Mr President, there is no need for so many visits by ministers and State Secretaries, concrete support is needed for farmers and entrepreneurs. I would like to ask you whether, in the budget of the State, whose discussion is now open, you and your Parliamentary Group are prepared to support the affected people, companies, farmers, support an area that has been very...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u182	But support, indeed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u183	Support, indeed! It is not to support how the victims of a year ago's fires were supported, which, as you have acknowledged, are still living in very poor conditions today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u184	Attention to time, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u185	So, Mr. Member, is your Parliamentary Group available to specifically support families and people affected by Hurricane Leslie in the Coimbra district? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u186	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u187	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Mauricio Marques and Mrs Patrícia Fonseca for the questions they have raised to me. I now begin with Mr Mauricio Marques' questions. The 2017 fires came to nude the difficulties and problems of the rural world, of course, but they also nude what were the consequences of the right-wing policy of successive governments, for which you have great responsibility. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the forest reform that you were referring to, you said we were against knowledge, against scientific studies. Well, we must not forget that, in the last legislative session, when the CFP here brought a bill to correct the mistakes that exist in the current law regulating the forest, Mr. So be the PSD with the PCP and we will solve many problems! But now the PSD does not support the aid to the owners. In fact, the honourable Member had even difficulties in referring to the word « support », because what we have seen, with the policies implemented by the PSD, was that they were never by the small and medium-sized owners, they were never by the small and medium-sized producers, but were always by the policies of the big agribusiness. In this respect, in the Government where Mrs Cristas was Minister of Agriculture, and then answering the questions put by Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, we attended the largest cut in agriculture and, above all, in the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u188	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u189	I am talking about when Mrs. Minister of Agriculture cut EUR 150 million in the ProDeR ( Regional Development Programme ) of the forest, benefiting from this the large agribusiness companies. Here, yes, we say it's strange! It is strange the policy that the CDS now comes here to defend, because when it had the opportunity to intervene, I did not intervene. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] But I want to tell you more: you have had responsibilities, you have been in government, but you do not take the consequences of your policies and that is strange. Make it right to assume the responsibilities of your government's policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u191	It will be with other eyes that the Portuguese will look at the politics of the country! [[PCP applause.]] More: Mrs. Member does not listen to the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u192	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u193	He said he heard it, but the explanations were very clear in the political statement. You did not hear, because if you had heard and heard the PCP you would learn important things, but you do not listen, so you do not learn that it is different to invest in agribusiness and not invest in small family farming. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is genuine family farming that defends national production and national sovereignty, but you are not concerned about national sovereignty! You are concerned, because it is cheaper for you to import than to produce and the consequences are there: the loss of the economy with consequences for the agri-food deficit. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u194	We will continue with the political statements. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To allow access of larger ships to the Port of Setúbal, dredgings are provided in the Sado estuary. It is not, of course, the first time that dredging takes place in Sado, but it now involves greater intensity and volume — 3, 5 million m3 in the first phase — to allow vessels with 12 m of silence to enter. In the area surrounding the project's intervention area, there are sensitive areas such as the Natural Reserve of the Estuário do Sado, the Special Protection Zone for Estuário Birds, the Ramsar Site, also important for a set of birds, the Marine Park Prof. Luiz Saldanha and other areas of the Natural Park of Arrábida. A few weeks ago, the Greens Ecological Party brought this matter of Sado's dragons to the debate with the Prime Minister. at that time, we were very clear in the manifestation of a great concern, particularly regarding the impact of these dredgings on some natural elements that have great relevance, such as the community of dolphins living in the estuary of Sado and also the beaches of Arrábida. The truth is that, for example, in relation to corvinary dews, the environmental impact study recognizes that there are significant negative impacts on the dolphin group, although temporary. However, for a community with the sensitivity of these cetaceans, it is not relevant to say that the impacts are temporary, because, in this hiatus of time, this biological wealth of Sado can be very seriously affected. This concern is further compounded when it is public knowledge that a seven-year study was commissioned by the State to a team of biologists from the University of Aveiro, who proposed the ecological classification of four areas to protect the dolphins of Sado. According to the study, these four areas, two were curiously or not, both of them collide with the design of the dredgings of the Sado estuary. apparently, part of this study was completely ignored, so that—as mistrust that can legitimately arise—there were no obstacles, resulting from an ecological classification, to these dredgings. From the perspective of the Greens, this is quite serious. What should happen, according to the recommendation for the preservation of the environmental values in question, would first be the classification of areas that were considered important and then, then, to evaluate-CL - what kind of dredging would be possible. In addition, the Environmental Impact Declaration demonstrates a clear insufficiency in relation to the study of sedimentary dynamics, with direct impacts on erosion processes and beaches, particularly those of Arrábida. The deepening of the hydrodynamic behavior of the area concerned and the surrounding area is, in the perspective of the Greens, fundamental. It is not to be overlooked, yet, what the fishermen have referred to in relation to the place where the deposition of the mud extracted from the canal and bar area is planned, when they ensure that it will have an impact on an area where excellent fish, molluscs and bivalves are caught and which will therefore affect the artisanal fishing of the region, in a community of about 300 fishermen. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the Greens Ecological Party considers that no secure guarantees are given on the real influence or on the minimization of impacts on the relevant natural values. And for those who always put the environment in contrast with the economy, as if environmental preservation were an obstacle to the dynamics of the economy and nothing more than that, it must be stressed that these natural values also have a central importance in the economy of the region; a region that has one of the most beautiful bays in the world and has unique resources that must be valued and not fragile. This process of dredging for Sado must therefore be refocused on the Greens' perspective, particularly in the light of the concerns we have raised here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u196	Madam Member, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u197	Madam President, I will respond to all requests for clarification together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u198	First of all, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u199	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Left Bloc welcomes the approach to the problem that the Greens Ecologist Party’s bench here has brought and is associated with the concerns that have been raised. In fact, seven years ago a team of biologists studied the marine areas of the Portuguese coast for integration into the Natura 2000 Network and, as Mrs. Deputy said, very well, curiously, two areas disappear from this ecological classification: precisely the two areas that collide with this dredging project in the Port of Setúbal. These projects are proposed and advanced by the administration of the Port of Setúbal for the deepening and extension of the maritime channel of access to that port, in order to increase the reception capacity of larger vessels and also with a view to the construction of a terminal of containers which is also a project that responds to private economic interests and whose need for the economy of the country is rejected by the port community of Setúbal. It has been said here, too, that these works provide for the dredging of a very significant amount of sediments. To maintain that this intervention does not result in disastrous environmental consequences, with regard to ecological sustainability, the preservation of biodiversity, especially of corvinary dolphins and, consequently, that it does not also bring negative economic impacts due to changes in mountain areas to social, leisure and economic activities — such as fishing, bivalve catch, tourism, restoration — is irresponsible and not serious. The Minister of the Environment has argued that the licensing of dredgings is not the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, but we understand that we cannot have in the same government the game of hot potatoes between two ministries, so that answer is not useful. Strengthening what Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has already said, I will say that it is important to weigh these dredgings and to understand and put on the table the consequences and negative impacts that, indeed, this has, at the level of biodiversity, the preservation of dolphins, as well as the socio-economic impacts for the population of Setúbal and for an area that is and must be heritage of all, at regional and national level. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u200	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing this important and so sensitive issue to debate and I note that the PSD has been accompanying this matter since the first hour. This is indeed a sensitive matter. Biodiversity is at stake, but there is also economic activity in that region. in this sense, we understand that the best way to understand what is going on in relation to this matter was to present immediately in 11. the Commission, the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, a request for the presence of the Minister of the Environment to provide all information on this matter. In fact, the most viable, most obvious mechanism seemed to us to be the one in which the political guardian of this area could give us all the explanations. The question I put to you is very simple, Mrs Deputies: it agrees with this procedure of the PSD and with the urgency of the departure of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition to 11. the Commission? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u202	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u203	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating also Mrs Heloísa Apolónia on the subject which brings the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. This is a subject that has been quite concerned, and in particular, the fishermen of the Setúbal and Sesimbra areas, because of the implications that the development of this project may have in a traditional economic activity and that has long been developing in the Sado River. Without a doubt, the biodiversity — the fauna and flora — of the Sado River is of enormous wealth and the concerns expressed here, particularly with regard to the deposition of sands and muds in an area that operates as a motherhood of many fish species, also causes the CFP an added concern regarding the continuation of this activity. They also cause concern because this area — designated by restinga — located on the Troy Peninsula, is in fact a very rich area in various species of fish, bivalves and other marine species, which are the food of the ravenous red dolphins that inhabit the Sado estuary. It is important to note that fishermen have already expressed their views on this matter and it is regrettable that they have not been heard in the appropriate time so that these same concerns would indeed be taken into account. It is also important to note that the Municipal House of Setúbal, in its opinion on this process, has already expressed concerns not only about the deposition of sands and muds in the maternity areas of these fish species, but also about their transport, particularly in urban areas. It is unfortunate that these concerns have not been considered because, of course, a problem could have been avoided with regard to these matters. We believe that these are, in fact, matters to be taken into account in this process. We do not, of course, oppose the development of port activity, but it must be compatible with traditional economic activity, it must be compatible with fishing activity and, of course, it must take into account environmental concerns raised. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u204	Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia on the political statement she made here today. The issue you discussed deserves all the attention of the Socialist Party. Indeed, the compatibility between economic development, environmental sustainability and biodiversity is something that governs not only the operation of this government at first but also the operation of the Socialist Party. We also know — the honourable Member said — that these interventions aim to improve maritime accessibility to the Port of Setúbal, which aim to have positive economic impacts in this region and, of course, to boost the creation of more employment. This is a process that has been prepared for more than two years, which has even been in public discussion and for which all environmental studies have been carried out. They have also been asked to give opinions to the environmental associations on this issue and on their position before these interventions. I would like to ask whether the Greens Ecological Party participated in this public discussion, which was the position defended and which will have been transmitted. The honourable Member will also know that there has already been a precautionary measure which has been brought forward with a view to suspending the same work and which has been rejected by the competent court. With regard to the impact on the dolphin community, and which is also a concern, we know — and it is already public — that there is a team that is accompanying the intervention and that aims to minimize the impact of the dolphin community which, fortunately, exists in Sado today. It has been mentioned here that this Parliament has already approved the coming of the guardians and the various entities involved so that clarifications can be provided in their committee. Therefore, what we now consider important is to ensure that all procedures for minimizing the environmental impact of these interventions are met, without causing social alarm and ensuring, once again, the compatibility between economic development, biodiversity and environmental sustainability, which seems to me to be an important principle for all parties in this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u206	Before giving the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to respond to this set of requests for clarification, I announce to the Hemicycle that she is in the gallery of the High Authorities Your Ex-President of the Assembly of the Republic accompanied by the President of the National Parliament of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and its committee, of which she is also a member of the Ambassador of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as well as some Members. I would ask for a very effusive greeting on this delegation. [[General applause, stand up.]] Now, yes, you have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u207	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I think that the principle of sustainability is important to the speeches of all parties. to the speeches! But when it comes to practice and decision-making, things are often not so. He knows that economic interests often overlap clearly with the interests of environmental conservation, which is also of course a national and regional interest, depending on the point of view that we are talking about. Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, asked me a question which is very easy to answer. But it could almost be said, Mr President, that your intervention « brings water to the kiss », in order to omit the PSD position, which we do not know, on this matter. What is more, we have conflicting indications. It is also important for parties to take a position on these issues, particularly with regard to the concerns they have about concrete projects. the PSD only knows a draft resolution presented in this Parliament, in this Parliament, to recommend to the Government, precisely, that it speed up the dredging process with regard to the Setúbal Port project. Of course, we think it is important to listen to the Minister of the Environment about whatever it is, because everything that contributes to clarifications that the Assembly of the Republic needs is important. in this sense, we agree with the initiatives taken. I also take advantage of replying to Mrs Sandra Cunha, from BE, who raised a question that has to do with the difficulty that the Ministry of the Environment often has to take on what is very relevant in this folder: the transversality of environmental matters. On the issue of oil research in the Algarve, Mr. Minister often refused the environmental impact assessment, kicking it into the ministry responsible for energy. Curiously, or not, now he also takes it with the matter of energy! Therefore, we will also have to ask you for a lot of clarification on this matter. But it is clear that we consider it important to listen, from the representative of the Ministry of the Environment, to everything that relates to the environmental impacts of certain aspects which are clearly under his care, and we therefore consider it important for the Minister to take a position on these matters. Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP wanted to underline here an issue which, in our view, is fundamental. Even the weighting of the dynamics and economic dimensions is important. When we are talking about a community of about 300 fishermen, taking into account what is proposed, particularly in relation to the deposition of sludge, which will directly affect their activity—and we know how fishermen have been so massacred by certain policies that liquidate and hinder their activity— it is clear that this is also a matter that must be heavily weighed, heavy. Returning to the beginning, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, do you know what the problem is? It is that APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) is also contributing to this. It is contributing to the credibility of environmental impact assessment processes. And listen to what I'm saying: this keeps citizens away from the processes of public consultation of environmental impact assessment. When people are fully aware that an environmental impact assessment is only useful for entities to know about the failures of interested citizens or associations concerned in relation to decisions already taken, they feel that their participation is not worth it. It is a matter on which we should consider, Mr President, because we believe that these environmental policy instruments are fundamental to decision-making and not to fake studies, so let us say about the decisions that are already taken. And that is always the rhythm of custom: the economic interests to be overvalued in relation to environmental interests, and that cannot be the way of sustainability. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u208	Mrs. Members, continuing with the political statements, I now give the floor to Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u209	Ex. Mrs. President, Mr. and Mr. Members: On Monday he spent a year on the tragedy of the fires that devastated the center of the country. The seriousness of the events, the failure and the failure shown by the government can never be forgotten. Few will be the most painful and sad memory exercises. The tears, the screams, sometimes even silence showed despair. in an instant, families, friends, memories, homes, memories of generations disappeared. Portugal is today a very old, centralist country with very low birth rates. Lisbon grows and the rest of the country is impoverished. The abandoned territory is unproductive territory. Portugal, which has been delayed before the European partners, cannot afford to waste resources. Land without people are lands without guardians. The exodus of the population for the big cities was aggravated by a state that forgets people. Over the years, the state has failed. Often, by not even caring for what is yours, others by refusing dignified conditions to volunteers who, in an altruistic heroism, have done everything to protect us. Today, as a year ago, the government and the majority that supports it continue to believe that the exchange of ministers will excuse everything. Almost 100 people have died, abandoned by the state, condemned to self-protection and an unacceptable one saves whoever can. Forests, houses, factories and jobs disappeared in the dantesque hell to which we were condemned. Let us remember the discoordination, the suffering, the pain, the anguish of those who stubbornly remained in their territories and who, in seconds, witnessed the destruction. Two months before summer, the government, unconsciously and irresponsiblely, had revolutionized the national civil protection structure, giving priority to the boys. Air, surveillance and combat facilities were wasted, exacerbating the situation caused by climate conditions. They failed! So far, nothing structural has changed. In the case of prevention, spatial planning and the definition of an effective forest policy, the government behaves irrationally, not realizing the difficulties of small and medium-sized owners, pursuing private property. It is forgotten that the few people who remain in these territories are mostly poor and elderly, without resources for cleaning, people who, after the tragedy, continued without communication due to the weakness of the State in the face of the large economic groups. There are still factories and countless houses to recover. In Pedrogan, the facility became a police case. In IP3, the seals were not even restored. The abandonment of the territory and the fires transform forests into slaughterhouses. Concerned about the small political chicana, they wasted the opportunity given by the PSD to launch a real reform, decentralizing and transformer of Portugal. They'd rather be on the line. of the word given to the honest word, to the ridicule of Infarmed, the Prime Minister continues to allow Portuguese to be abandoned to his own fate. [[PSD applause.]] The ideological and statisticating blindness of this left-wing majority makes the government live away from non-profit non-governmental organizations, where thousands of Portuguese mobilized to recover Portugal. Luckily, people have not failed! The tears and screams of revolt gave rise to persistence and tenacity. Determined and supportive, the Portuguese were involved and mobilized. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a new reality is required that everyone is involved. The society needs protection and fewer obstacles. It calls for the construction of a different, more competitive and less asymmetric country. in this challenge, non-profit institutions should be cared for. They can be good partners in decentralization and proximity support. the state wants the example. Due to the liabilities and inoperability of the government, the interior cannot continue to be condemned for abandonment. Let it begin now, without hesitation and with courage, by giving the example of the transfer from the Constitutional Court to Coimbra. Other transfers and attracting productive investment will be considered and studied. People want to continue living in those territories, but they need conditions to be able to live there. Portugal imposes a serious and credible alternative, reformist rather than trapezist, capable of mobilizing and supporting the demand to win. The memory of the suffering and the example of overcoming our people do not allow it to continue to fail. Thus, and in the name of everything that has happened and has suffered thousands of Portuguese people with this tragedy, as well as those who still suffer the consequences of the neglect, incompetence and lack of care of this government, I conclude by stressing that this majority has failed the Portuguese and above all the most disadvantaged and needy, and I appeal still this day that, in the face of the tragedy that has happened in the Centre region on the last weekend, that this time the Government is more attentive, more active and that indeed supports those with the relevance and urgency they deserve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u210	Mrs Deputy, four Members of the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the PCP and the CDS were registered for requests for clarification. I hope you will tell me how you want to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u211	Madam President, I will respond to two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u212	First of all, to make requests for clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was appropriate to recall here the tragedy that the country experienced during 2017. We have always said that recovery would require a very long effort, because the damage was also very deep. We know that more support is needed for farmers, the first houses and the second houses. It is also necessary to overcome inequities such as those that removed the Council of Mação, devastated by more than 80 % of its territory, from access to the European Union Solidarity Fund. In fact, much more needs to be done. But when the honourable Member speaks of the weakening of state services and says that the State has failed, I do not know whether it was referring to the years and years of weakening of State services promoted by the right and in particular by the Government of the PSD and the CDS-PP. Was the honourable Member referring to the weakening of the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests) which, today, are unable to respond, due to lack of resources, to the demands of forest producers, to the management councils of the baldiums? You are the main ones responsible for this weakening and for the failure to respond that the State is now revealing. When the honourable Member speaks of the abandonment of decentralisation reforms I am also left wondering whether the honourable Member is referring to the ongoing decentralisation reform agreed between the PSD and the Socialist Party. Is it against this reform that you are referring to or against any other Member? We just don't know. Finally, I would like to mention a sequel that this year broke into devastated territories, which is the resurgence of billions of eucalyptus, real carpets of plant mass that grow in an absolutely messy way and that, if they are not torn out in the short term, will constitute a huge plant mass that will feed new and future fires. An emergency measure is required, which is to begin to remove these eucalyptuses, and this must be done today. I would therefore like to know whether the PSD is available to support the government and an initiative to be set up an urgent and unbureaucratized programme that supports small forest owners to start the eucalyptus. Finally, since the eucalyptus is removed it is necessary to reconstitute the forest in an orderly way and it is necessary to support the plantation of the native forest, I wanted to know whether today, unlike in 2016, when the PSD voted against the support of the forest producers that make the planting...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u214	Mr Deputies, for the attention of the Bureau, he has already far exceeded his time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u215	I will finish, Madam President. I wanted to know if today, unlike 2016, when the PSD voted against a Left Block proposal to support owners who want to plant native trees, the PSD is available to vote favourably another proposal in this direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u216	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP now has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u217	Madam President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, first of all, I would like to congratulate her on her speech and on the many issues she has brought us today, since she has talked about several situations, and to tell you that it might be worth starting — I ask you if you agree with this — with the issue of protection. What has failed in this country, and much of what has certainly failed last year was the government's ability and obligation, which is the first obligation of any government, to protect its citizens. That's what failed! The fact is that, having failed this, we do not know much of what — it was a commitment from the government — seems to be going on. We still do not know, for example, how to strengthen the GNR. Nor is the question of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ) resolved, which is strange, does it not seem to you, Mrs Deputy? — having been announced by the Government, with the support of the parties supporting it, which would become public, nor was the issue of full network coverage resolved, the Government failed to do so. We knew that the Air Force should take over the command and management of air resources to combat fires and now we know that it will do so only next year — the government has not been able to make this transfer of powers either. We know that not even simple things—I ask you if you do not consider it strange—things that would require no more words, no more means, no more reinforcement, things as simple as the new law of civil protection or even the organic structure of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests, the government has managed to respond from a legislative point of view! This is serious, it's serious. Does it not seem curious to you, Madam Member, that when the government comes to say "we have improved here, we have improved there this year, despite the huge tragedy of Monchique and the time it took to fight the fire, we have managed that there have been no fatal cases, as in the previous year", basically, what you are saying is that someone was responsible for what happened in the past? It is that even when you come to say « this time it was not as serious as before», what you are saying is that it was very serious, which was the fault of this government and this majority. I also ask you to share our reading of the fact that there is much delay in the approval of forest programmes and in the recovery programmes for areas and areas of fire. Mr Deputy, there are very serious situations that need to be clarified. At a good time, the PSD and the CDS-PP requested, including a general inspection, an audit of the Revita Fund to find out whether or not there was corruption, whether or not there were any diversions of funds, with taxpayers' money and money from the solidarity of the Portuguese, which would obviously be unacceptable and of greater seriousness. By concluding and congratulating you on your initiative, I would like to tell you that sometimes it seems to me that this government sometimes tries to correct, sometimes seeks to improve, but always does so late, always does so at the same time, always does so late. And I also agree with you...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u218	Mr President, it has also been a long way beyond your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u219	Madam President, I also agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u220	Do you agree that you have to finish immediately?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u221	Madam President, I would just like to tell Mrs Fatima Ramos that the issue concerning the tragedy of this last weekend begins with the electricity grid and in that case it was important for the government to answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u222	In reply, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u223	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Matias and Mr Telmo Correia asked me the questions and the fact that they were interested in this problem. With regard to Mr Matias' questions, I would like to begin by saying that our concern is with the people who live in those territories and that our concern shows that the State has failed to support these people. When I say that the State has failed, I mean that it has also failed previous governments, but above all it has failed and is failing this government. The honourable Member has returned to the times of the troika. As you know, in the times of the troika we had to solve very serious problems so that people could receive orders and pensions, we had to comply with memos negotiated by others. But now we have a new government, which has caught up in a country in a phase of expansion, one country prepared by others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u224	Now, this government is wasting its chances. And who is this government accompanying? They are the masters of the Left Block, the masters of the Communist Party, who make it possible. Mr. Member, I am concerned about the future, I am concerned and I want to contribute so that people want to continue living in those territories, I am concerned about the hundreds of homes that are about to be recovered, I am concerned about the bureaucracy that has been created, I am concerned that people do not have the conditions to continue to live there! That is why I challenge you to contribute to the fact that this process is reversed. And I regret that, in relation to a process of this importance and of this gravity, you choose to walk in an exchange of blame and half-guilty, throwing them at others. I will gladly answer some of the questions you have asked about the forest. We defend an organized forest, which includes the various forest species. We do not want slaughterhouses, we do not want these types of land, because they are the ones that burn faster, as you know. We want a forest with various plant species, based on a properly organized register, that produces wealth for those who live there and that is not just beautiful for those who go there from time to time! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u225	That's what we don't want. That is why we have always defended this in this bench and we will continue to defend: to create wealth, to develop those territories so that people have work and can continue there. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to tell you that we are actually in line with everything you have said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u226	What news!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u227	In fact, it shocks us that there are hundreds of houses to recover. We have heard what some associations of defense of those populations, namely the MAAVIM (Associative Movement of Support for the Victims of the Mid-Middle Fires ) ask: the fact that few companies are recovering all those houses; the delays; the bureaucracy; the fact that, in most cases, the homes of immigrants, those foreigners who went there to live and who contribute to the creation of jobs, are not eligible and have no support; the fact that often those who emigrated, no longer have their home there, but always have the hope of being able to return, have no support. All of this concerns us, Mr Telmo Correia, and therefore we are totally in tune with you, with a view to looking at the Portuguese and defending ones, especially those who maintain their strength and continue to live in those territories. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u228	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr John Dias, of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u229	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Fatima Ramos for bringing the issue of fires to debate, which is very important for the CFP. In fact, what has happened to your political statement is the assumption that the State has failed. After all, Mrs. Deputy even listens to the PCP. He listens, but he does not learn, and he does not learn, because in fact, the CFP understands that the PSD has made a decisive contribution over several decades for the forest to reach this state of failure. The PSD has already used us to get us, when it's in the government, into a policy of destruction... [[PSD protests.]] ... and that, when he's in opposition, he gets into a bedtime policy below. What this political statement means and what you have come to do is a contrite act by the thousands of evils that the PSD/CDS government has done to family farming. Is this an apology, Your Honor? Is it a recognition of your responsibility in failings for farmers? Is that what you're here to assume? Farmers had enormous losses, which were overcome with many difficulties, with many obstacles, through the replacement of productive potential. But there is one question that the CFP has always raised and on which we would like to know whether the PSD is willing to follow us. [[PSD protests.]] We would like to know whether the PSD is willing to accompany the CFP in support of loss of income. It is that one thing is to lose a sheep or an olive tree and that loss is compensated by its exact value and another is to lose income until that sheep or that olive tree can produce. If you do not know what the loss of income is, Mr Mauricio Marques explains it and can tell you whether or not you are available to accompany us in support of the loss of income of farmers! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u230	To put the last request for clarification to Mrs Fatima Ramos, Mr Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I want to associate myself with the words that have brought us here and that remind us of the memories of a sad event and the suffering of so many people. I cannot and must associate myself with the fact that the PSD insists on making the tragic event of the 2017 fires a political weapon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u232	This is a path that we do not want to follow and that we repudiate clearly. Just as it is a bad way to ignore that the current government has taken concrete steps to enhance the interior and those territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u233	You didn't do anything! Nobody did anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u234	Examples of this are the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior, the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Programme, the tax benefits for companies in the affected territories or Portugal 2020 support for low density territories. It is also a recent example of the creation of a State Secretary for the Valorisation of the Interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u235	How long has he been gone?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u236	Together, Mrs Deputy, these measures play a role in public policies that have a direct impact on people's lives and on the value of the interior. We know that a house, the recovery of a company does not take place in one day, does not happen in one month, does not happen in one year often. Until we have to collect damages, applications, analysis of applications, projects, budgets, contests and, finally, licenses. So, Mrs Deputy, I would like to ask you and the Democratic Social Party if they know that 288 housing is already being built in the Central Region.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u237	How many are we missing?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u238	I would like to ask you, Madam Member, if you know that at the moment we are here, 486 more housing are in place. And I would like to ask you if you know that almost 500 million euros have been invested this year in the recovery of these same homes. I would also like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, if you have already heard of the Repor programme, which has already paid EUR 27, EUR 5 million for the replacement of the business activity; if you have heard of, for example, that the 329 approved projects have safeguarded more than 3000 jobs and created more than 277. Anyway, a lot has been done! It is true that there is still much to do in the territories affected by the fires of a year ago, as, unfortunately, there is now much to do, also in the territories that were devastated by the storm, which had a particular incidence in Figueira da Foz, in Condeixa, in Montemor-o-Velho, in Soure and in Cantanhede, whose populations deserve my and our solidarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u239	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that your time has already been greatly exceeded. We still have two points to discuss after the political declarations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u240	I shall end with the same tolerance, Madam President. Finally, I would say that I understand that the time of those who have been hit is a short time and that everything seems to always take forever. But, Madam President, it is also good to recognize that the Government has done much in these 12 months with effectiveness, competence and objectivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u241	In reply, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u242	Mr John Dias, I would like to tell you that I am not here in the face of any act of contrition, but rather in the face of an act of humility, of those who recognize that the State has indeed failed — it has failed in the last year, but it has also failed in many previous years. If the state hadn't failed, I didn't have this data. I did not look at the Pampilhosa of Serra and did not see that from 2011 to 2017 the Pampilhosa of Serra lost almost 9 % of the population. I didn't look at Penela and I didn't see the same situation. I didn't look at Penacova and I didn't see that in half a dozen years, Penacova lost 8% of the population. This means that, in fact, the State fails, the State has failed. But the State failed, above all, last year, when the State released means and knew that time was still hot. And you support that government. The state has failed! More than a hundred people died! The state is failing, with the delays that are occurring in the recovery of houses, of the hundreds of homes that are missing to recover. Only in the central area do we need to recover 533 houses. Some, particularly Mr Coimbra, boast of what is being done. But what's done, it's done, and it's done too slowly and with too much bureaucracy. Perhaps, if they had decentralised more, Mr. Pedro Coimbra, if they had more dialogue with the municipal chambers, with the fregetical boards, with the IPSS, if they had more confidence in their own people, perhaps, the process would have been faster and today would have been more advanced. And that is what we are concerned about, it is with this lack of confidence on your part, because they support centralist states and not people. This leads us to have very few companies working, almost none, which then subcontract small companies from the same medium and crush them with prices. It is because of this centralism, Mr. Moreover, I would like to tell you that the State failed, above all, when a Government of the Socialist Party closed the Agency for the Prevention of Forest Fires ( APIF ), which was located in Miranda do Corvo — Eng. José Socrates closed this agency! at that time, I was president of the chamber and said they were doing the will of the fire fighting industry lobby. In fact, it was a Government of the Socialist Party that closed an agency, located in Miranda do Corvo, that, using plants of the Biomass Centre for Energy (CBE), planned to study, prevent and act. It was a government of the Socialist Party, at a time when there was so much money and when they spent so much, that it did. Are you asking me if our government has not acted and has not reopened it? Oh, my God! Our Government, as I have already told you, has been performing functions at an extremely difficult time and, even though you are trying to convey that we are sadistic and inhumane, I want to tell you that we are not sadistic or inhumane. We were obliged to comply with the memoir of the troika for the country to obtain funding, for the people to receive the reforms, for them to have ordered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u243	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u244	And, moreover, we are proud of the following: we were from the intervention countries which, even in an extremely difficult period of intervention, have worsened social inequalities. And you know why? Because we protect the lowest reforms, protect the lowest wages. [[PCP protests.]] It is that we are actually social democrats, we believe in private property, we believe in institutions and we are here to defend people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u245	You now have the floor for a political statement, Mr Paulo Pisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that the Portuguese community lives in Venezuela is very worrying, due to economic, social and political disorder in which the country is plunged, with accelerated hyperinflation, collapsed health services and food supplies in ruins. This brings together uncontrolled insecurity and crime and more and more frequent kidnappings. The national and international press constantly realizes this situation, which continues to deteriorate. About two and a half million Venezuelans have already left the country, fleeing all available borders. Many come to Portugal, particularly to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to the district of Aveiro, but also to Porto and Lisbon. The Portuguese and Luso-descendants in Venezuela, which will be around 400 000, are particularly entrepreneurs, holding close to 80 % of the activity in food distribution, supermarkets, bakeries, which naturally leaves it very exposed in a situation of food shortage and economic irrationality. And despite the difficulties and dangers, many Portuguese people resist leaving Venezuela, not only because they want to protect their property, but also because they love it as much as their own country. Therefore, a situation as difficult and complex as this, and with so many obstacles, requires equally exceptional measures from the Government, with permanent monitoring and a certain, humanist and solidarityary attitude. that it is of the utmost importance that the parties also know how to be united and that the Governments of the Republic and Madeira maintain their exemplary cooperation, so as to defend the interests of our compatriots. But I consider it to be fundamental justice to recognize the extraordinary work of proximity that the Government has done to respond to the needs and desires of our community, a real mark of the importance that Portuguese abroad have for this government. There are already six movements to Venezuela of several members of the Government, five of whom are the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities. The Government has been able to defend and support the Portuguese in Venezuela and has known how to welcome them in Portugal, and this is the general principle of their performance; it has had the necessary diplomatic intelligence to keep open channels of dialogue with the Venezuelan authorities and has known to be firm when necessary, as happened about the 12 Portuguese and Luso-descendants arbitrarily detained for an alleged infringement of economic laws; it has been able to position itself with good sense when it comes to taking positions in the European Union, defending the sanctions already imposed, but without closing all the doors to the future. For those who have doubts about the quality and depth of the Government's intervention, it is sufficient to recall the approximately EUR 15 million in support which has already benefited, in various ways, thousands of Portuguese and Luso-descendants in Venezuela, starting with the decision not to update, and then, by charging, consular emoluments, where the State has already lost some EUR 10 million in revenue, but which are absolutely fundamental in order to facilitate the life of those who need a passport or a citizen card, such as the decision to strengthen the human resources of consulates, to expedite the delivery of documents and to send officials of the Institute of Registers and Notariado to speed up the allocation of nationality processes, which, until August, was already in 8,000. It deserves particular reference to the very important agreement reached with the Venezuelan Government to install a network of medical care in five cities, in partnership with the association of Portuguese-venezuelan doctors, who use drugs sent from Portugal, which are fundamental to saving lives. Social support for the elderly and the disabled was intensified to address situations of great precariousness and measures were taken to provide pensions. The words for the Associative Movement were strengthened and the teaching of Portuguese was increased, and deserve a very special greeting all those who, in the Associative Movement and among the councillors of the CCP (Council of the Portuguese Communities) have brought together efforts to be able to do more for our community together. Equally relevant were the two return support measures announced by the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities on his fifth visit to Venezuela, one with an innovative platform with close to 20 000 employment opportunities, and a credit line of EUR 50 million to finance investment projects up to €75 000. On the other hand, the Government has made every effort to ensure that the Portuguese and the Luso-descendants who wish to return can do so without difficulties of integration, with measures in the areas of health, education, housing, employment and vocational training, among others, which has been evident in the virtuous collaboration with the Regional Government of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government is doing its job, and it is doing so very well, just as Parliament has done its part. But there is a duty of solidarity of the whole society with our compatriots who now need to feel that they are welcome to Portugal. A duty of solidarity which must particularly touch businesses, which can provide employment opportunities, and professional orders, to manage the equivalences of academic and professional titles with openness and flexibility. We cannot look at our communities as a distant entity. They are an integral part of the nation, the country needs them, owes them a lot and this is the time to show that we are united in their defense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u247	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members of the CDS-PP, PSD, BE, and PCP. The honourable Member will then inform the Bureau of how he will answer the questions. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u248	Mr President, Mr Pisco, right away, I want to tell you that there is a look in your speech that seems to us, I would say, a little rare. I had the opportunity yesterday to attend a closed-door meeting at the request of the Government of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, who told us that everything that was happening with the Portuguese community in Venezuela — the Government's proceedings, the mechanisms that exist, the way it is being supported — should be discussed only at the closed-door because it is reserved matter, it is a matter with which it is necessary to have some caution, so we could not have an open-door discussion on this. But the next day, you didn't open the door, broke it down! He entered the plenary session of the House of the Republic inside and came to tell us much of what happened at the meeting yesterday at the closed door. That is, at least, Mr Deputies, a bit exotic, we must recognise it. Until, within the limit, you may say: "But I didn't say anything here that I couldn't say, I only told the light part of yesterday's meeting at the closed door, about which Mr Minister asked us to reserve, to us, ladies and gentlemen, that we were there. I only told the light part, the soft part. In fact, you can come to say this. However, it's strange that there are two discussions, isn't it? one day, one, deep, serious, with everything; and the next day one, lighter, only with what can be discussed at the open door and everyone can know. It's weird. Secondly, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there are some questions on which we have doubts and that we believe that they should be dealt with very seriously. The first is the question of the right of return of the Portuguese. The government has said — and I do not want to be now violating the 'closed door' — which has helped in any return. Now, I ask you, honourable Member, whether the right to return from the Portuguese of Venezuela, comparable to that of many of the refugees coming from northern Africa, who have escaped from a total drama situation, whether that right of return of the Portuguese, I repeat, is or is not a total and inalienable right for all of them. In other words, if a Portuguese who is in a situation of economic insolvency, inability to secure his life in Venezuela has the right to return to Portugal or if the Government can or may not support that return. The second question has to do with the following: how much money is being spent? Is that enough or not? Is the support enough, or is it not enough, family and family? That also needs to be clarified. A third question, which is fundamental, is this: has the government already resolved the question of equivalence? It is that at this moment, we know stories of doctors, in some cases, with decades of profession in Venezuela, who arrive in Portugal and are sent to college. Well, that's not acceptable. So there is still much to be done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u249	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u250	Finally, Madam President, I would like to say the following: the government seems to want a certain closed door here because it wants to solve everything through the channels of the regime. Now, I ask you, honourable Member, how much can we rely on the channels of the Venezuelan regime and its characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u251	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u252	We don't think so. And I say to you, honourable Member: we can discuss here only what is to discuss in public, we can even say that the CDS, when it comes to helping the Portuguese, is available to forget the ideological issue, to think first of all about supporting the Portuguese and then about the ideological debate about a regime that we consider unqualified, but, honourable Member, in this matter, we are and we will always be very demanding. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u253	Once again, I call for the time allocated to be respected. Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves of the PSD now has the floor for a request for clarification, since Mr Paulo Pisco chose to answer two questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Pisco, the question of Venezuela is essential for this country. We're talking about Portugal, we're talking about the universe of hundreds of thousands of people who are Portuguese and live abroad, have a strong connection to our country, so we're talking about Portugal. This is a matter of great importance because, at the time of the debate on migration crises, we have a clear migration crisis in Venezuela and in this migration crisis, as it is evident, there are many Portuguese who leave for neighbouring countries coming to Europe, Portugal, for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, for the United Kingdom, for Spain and for France. in this area there must be national unity and, therefore, since the beginning of the PSD has acted in this area of Venezuela in order to boost the country's concern and to reassure our communities. It is that those who are there have to feel that here, all of us, we are with them and we do not forget them. in this, there are no party agendas, there is only one agenda that is the agenda of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] I want to say here this: what we cannot do is make political statements in which there is some demagogy. A year ago, we warned about this situation. The question I leave you with, Mr, is why, last February, they have either plummeted or helped bring down our draft resolution which provided for a set of measures, some of which have been listed and are now being launched? Why did they lead him down in February? Oh, my God! Why have they not dealt with the question of consular care in a timely manner, in which there has been more than one year waiting for applications for nationality? They agreed to that about two months ago! About two months ago! The two consular posts in Venezuela are without the holder of the post, without diplomat and, at the moment, the Consulate of Portugal in Valencia still has no consul. Therefore, you should be a little more careful in your statements. As regards social support, as it is clear, I did not want to forward a number because yesterday's meeting with Mr Minister was at the door closed, which is why he gained so much importance, but since he listed a number of subjects that were discussed at that meeting yesterday, which was held yesterday, I repeat, and today the subject is dealt with at the door open and mentioned the social support here, which yesterday Mr. Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities announced that the ASIC-CP ( Social Support to Elderly Persons in Need of the Portuguese Communities) and ASEC-CP ( Social Support to Disabled Migrants in the Portuguese Communities), which are support programmes for the needy elderly and the deprived emigrants, had in Venezuela this year 62 cases. This is at an exceptional time. In 2015, it was 82! Mr President, see if you come here with some care, clearly tell the Portuguese community what you want to do and explain why you have not dealt with this issue in a timely manner. Mr President, I conclude by saying the following: last week in the Council of Europe, on a proposal from the PSD Members, a written statement was made on the question of Venezuela which the entire Delegation signed, including Mr Paulo Pisco and Mr Telmo Correia, which I also took. This is a clear demonstration of how this Parliament also seeks to help our community in international entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u255	Mr President, I ask you to pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u256	Madam President, I am finished by saying that this is the position we should have. We will always be here to help in what is essential to support our community. But for God's sake, do not come to Parliament using a political statement to say what they have not done or are now doing, late, and then to invent numbers on the social level that sincerely embarrass only those who are currently proceeding in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u257	To reply, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u258	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been raised by the honourable Members. Telmo Correia and Carlos Gonçalves. I begin with the questions put by Mr Telmo Correia. There is absolutely nothing unusual or exotic about the content and content of my intervention. All that I have said are matters of the public forum; all matters related to health, employment, business support and various support to the community are absolutely public. What is important to recognize is that, in fact, from the outset, the government has been exemplary in monitoring our communities. from a diplomatic point of view, it has had wisdom and intelligence not to compromise our community in Venezuela. I think this is of the greatest importance because, unlike what happened to other countries that took hard positions, Portugal has been able to assume positions that have always protected and always defended our community. To what extent is the right to return a right for all? Obviously, the right to return is a right for all. so that the Government has developed a set of mechanisms to enable everyone, regardless of their condition, to return to our country. The platform with job opportunities, the line of credit for companies or all the support that is allocated to the integration of those who return both to Madeira and to the Continent are all measures that allow anyone who can return to our country. In reply to Mr Gonçalves, I would say the following: in fact, there is a migration crisis. This is something that everyone knows and that everyone recognises and I agree with you that, in this matter, there has to be — that is what we are all called upon to do — national unity because it is about defending our community in Venezuela, which is particularly exposed to the functions it performs in trade and food distribution. Now, in a situation of food shortage like the one that exists, it is obvious that they end up being the most exposed. We therefore have an obligation here to follow this situation in the best way and we have all made our contribution—I think it is too obvious—but the government has never failed from the beginning with any kind of support for our community. From strengthening consular care, from the smoothing of all bureaucratic processes within consular posts to the lifting that was made through a visit to 22 of the 23 states of Venezuela to raise the needs in social, medical and food terms, all this is part of the way the Government, from the beginning, has accompanied our communities with all care, with all proximity. Consequently, support has been given, there has been no lack of support.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u259	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u260	What the Government has always said from the outset is that, in addition to all the support that has been given, in particular to the Regional Government of Madeira, what is still necessary to assign, obviously, should, and will be allocated. So this is what I meant here and there is no demagogy. What I completely reject is that, in a matter as serious as that of Venezuela, the PSD is now speaking in demagogy. There's no demagogy. There's the recognition...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u261	They weren't paying attention! What do you want? Oh, my God! They were waiting for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u262	That is what the government is already doing and has always done since the beginning. There is recognition of a truly fundamental role in all dimensions, both in support of the Portuguese who are in Venezuela, both in support of the Portuguese who return, and even in international forums. This is absolutely unequivocal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u263	We shall continue with the requests for clarification to Mr Paulo Pisco. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Pisco, first of all I would like to express our solidarity, as we have done publicly with the Portuguese community in Venezuela. In our view, the Portuguese State can and should support the Portuguese people and the Portuguese community who want to return to our country and these support must also have a linguistic aspect beyond the monetary aspect, and this must also happen in the Autonomous Region of Madeira but also in the central region of the country, particularly in the Aveiro district, where the Portuguese citizens and citizens are returning from Venezuela are returning. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am not going to postpone or say one more word on the contents of yesterday's hearing, which was requested by the Government to be at the closed door, either on the general political debate, which is objectively conditional on this, but I am going to ask you why, on the day following the Government has asked the Portuguese Parliament to meet with the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the closed door, to speak freely with us and to give us information which, while respecting this request, we will not be able to use publicly, the PS Parliamentary Group makes a political statement with this content?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u266	Is there any heavy conscience, you're running after some protagonist, or is there any novelty here in the matter that we can't decouple in the intervention you've done? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u267	Mrs Carla Cruz of the PCP now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u268	Mr President, Mr Paulo Pisco, the first words of the CFP Parliamentary Group are obviously, as we have done several times, of solidarity with the Portuguese community that lives in Venezuela and also with the Portuguese who resided there and who were forced, or felt in that condition, to leave the country and return to Portugal. The honourable Member is here to talk about the support. It is important to say — from the rostrum, you did not say it, but it was important for you to say it — that the support that is provided not only to the Portuguese community in Venezuela but also to other Portuguese communities scattered around the world is a constitutional obligation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u269	In fact, therefore, it is up to the State to support the Portuguese communities scattered around the world, regardless of whether they are in a fragile situation, in a serious economic or social situation or even in situations of war, i.e. there is indeed a State obligation and it was important for the honourable Member, in his speech, to frame such support at this level. But, Mr President, it is also important — and that is what the CFP would like to mention here — that support for the Portuguese community, which we have already said, should be provided, not be confused with gestures of interference or even aggression against the Venezuelan people, with even more serious consequences for the Portuguese community there. So, Mr President, the central question I would like to put here is: how will the PS Parliamentary Group and the PS Government strengthen in human, material and financial means the external services network, in particular the consular network, so that the support that you have listed there, and, if you say so, has been asked to reserve some of the information mentioned here, can reach those that you need? Is this to be followed by the CFP in the need to strengthen the consular network in human, material and financial means, which we believe must be made, so that these support can effectively reach those who need it? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u270	To reply, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u271	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I am a little surprised at this kind of reaction to what the government has been doing, an exemplary action to defend our communities in Venezuela. It is that what we are talking about here today and what we are talking about has been more or less what, on several occasions, has been put into votes that are discussed here, much of the time even with interventions, with requests for a word, on Friday, and even was in the draft resolution on Venezuela that came to be presented by the CDS. In fact, all these terms that we are using here are part of the language that is used in these contexts that I have just mentioned. On what Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares said about teaching, yes, teaching has been strengthened, and that is one of the fundamental elements of the action of the Portuguese State and Government in Venezuela, for a very simple reason: with regard to the descendants, so those who may not possibly master the Portuguese language well, we know that the fact that they can participate in Portuguese courses can help them better integration if they understand then return to our country. in this sense, even recently, in the official teaching of Venezuela opened six classes, six courses, in optional education, which is indeed very important, this in addition to all remittances of books, the strengthening of the coordination of teaching and the strengthening of teacher training to be able to minister the teaching of Portuguese in Venezuela, precisely with this intention to help all those who want to return. Therefore, this is one of the truly important dimensions of the government's action and which I have actually not even mentioned in my intervention there in generic terms. On the issue raised by Mrs Carla Cruz, I would also like to say here that we agree that it is an obligation of the Portuguese State to protect and defend its citizens. The truth is that this does not always happen, but in this case it is happening. It is happening with declarations and with the recognition of the community itself in Venezuela, whether by entrepreneurs, either by recent declarations to the President of the Portuguese Center of Caracas, which is a real great institution that exists in Venezuela, to which are associated with a few hundred or thousands of Portuguese. Many times, they have even been relatively reluctant to recognize what is done, but this time they have even recognized the action of the Government because the action of the Government and the issue of maintaining the opening of diplomatic channels to protect our citizens has been absolutely fundamental. It was essential when there were a set of commercial establishments that were vandalized and of which people took advantage, with the opening of a EUR 5 million credit line to compensate for the damage caused to all these establishments and to all those Portuguese that were there, in the same way that it was now absolutely essential that the Portuguese who were arbitrarily detained because of an alleged infringement of economic laws in Venezuela could be released quickly. We have here to welcome the firmness with which the Foreign Minister has dealt with this issue, with the results that have been visible to all. Therefore, I think it is absolutely essential that this action of the government, which has protected, helped and gave hope to the Portuguese in Venezuela, should also be recognised here in Parliament, but now from another perspective, that which I have addressed, because this is important for...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u272	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u273	... the Portuguese who are in Venezuela, so that they realize that here, in Portugal, there is a government that takes care of them, that protects them, that is attentive to what is happening in that country and that is ready to intervene to help and support them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u274	That concludes this first item on the agenda. Before we proceed with the remaining two points, Mrs Emília Santos has an extensive list of advertisements to be made and I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the Proposals for Law No 149 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the application of the tax enforcement procedure to the compulsory collection of costs, fines, fines and other amounts charged in court proceedings, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 150 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the regime for the exercise of private security and self-protection activity, which falls to 1. the Commission, 151 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend mandatory security measures in restaurants or drinks establishments with dance spaces or rooms, which are lower than 1. the Commission, 154 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for arms and their munitions, transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2017 / 853, which falls to 1. the Commission, 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2019, which goes down to 5. the Commission, and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019, which goes down to 5. the Commission. I also mean that they entered, and were admitted, the Law Projects Nos. 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network, which goes down to 12. the Commission, in connection with 11. a, 1021 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker ( Thirteenth Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1022 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective recruitment in the business public sector, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Bases Act, which falls to 11. the Commission, and also draft resolutions Nos 1854 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Defense and valorization of the Ribat National Monument of Arrifana, 1855 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Integration of the Lisbon / Setúbal railway service into the CP after the end of the concession of this service to Fertagus in 2019, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1856 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a simplified procedure to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1857 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A25, 1858 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A24, 1859 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By abolishing tolls in A23, 1860 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Guatemala, 1861 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante, 1862 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the High School of Portela ( Arc-Iris ), in the municipality of Loures, 1863 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of School EB 2, 3 Gaspar Correia, in the Council of Loures, and the Draft Deliberation No 21 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the work of the Standing Parliamentary Committees. Finally, it is important to announce the withdrawal, by the tenderers, of Bill No 83 / XIII / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures the freeness of the base account and the Resolution Project No 843 / XIII / 2. a ( BE) — Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces (EMFAR). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u276	Mrs. Members, let us continue with the second item on the agenda, which is the joint assessment of Petition No 454 / XIII / 3. a ( Sonia Isabel Gomes Marinho et al.) — They request legislative amendment related to the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals, of the Bill No 999 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change the Penal Code, preventing excessive confinement of pet animals, of draft resolution No 1618 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of animal abuse, protection of animals and the extension of the rights of animal associations, of Petition No 372 / XIII / 2. a ( Elda Juliana da Costa Fernandes et al.) — They request the implementation of public animal protection policies in Braga, petition No 384 / XIII / 3. a ( Ana Sofia Gonçalves Marieiro et al.) — They request the adoption of measures for the construction of a municipal canil in the city of Aveiro, and of the Bill No. 1006 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres. For the first intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, the approval of the law criminalizing ill-treatment of pet animals represents a civilizational evolution of an important step towards the realization of animal rights. However, its application has shown the existence of numerous failures. Sooner now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not just going there with sensitization. If that were the case, we did not need a Criminal Code, because the great objective of prevention would be to resolve - for any crime - only to talk. The fact is that the supervisory authorities continue to have difficulty identifying situations involving animal abuse. It is therefore important to make some minor changes, but of great practical importance, in particular clarifying the law, specifically saying that an animal should not live a whole life confined to an endangered space without any possibility of expressing its natural behaviour. A dog who lives permanently stuck to a short current will not only have health problems, due to lack of exercise, but also psychologically, for living an entire life in containment. in these situations, dogs become especially anxious and sometimes even aggressive. It is also necessary to change the abandonment regime. At present, in order to verify the practice of crime, it is necessary for the abandonment to pose a danger to the life of the animal. However, the abandonment of animals in associations and collection centres is unfortunately common and, in most cases, the life of the animal is not put in danger, ending the offenders with impunity. For this reason, we argue that the crime of abandonment must take place from the moment when the animal holder disengages from it without ensuring its transmission to the responsibility of another person. This is also a very important measure for population control and to avoid more animals in the collection centres and shelters. People need to understand that adopting or buying an animal is an act of responsibility that understands not only the time of addition to the family but also the entire life of the animal. It is also necessary that legislation and animal welfare and protection policies are in line with this premise, and we all know that many of these animals are neglected and left in suffering and it is clear that we have an obligation to protect them. For this reason, we present this bill today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u278	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira to present the Greens' initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Green Green Ecology Party, I begin by greeting the thousands of subscribers who have given body to the three petitions that have been submitted today to the Plenary for discussion. The first aims at legislative changes related to the criminalization of ill-treatment of pets; the second calls for the implementation of public animal protection policies in Braga ; the third calls for the adoption of measures for the construction of a municipal canil in the city of Aveiro. To each other, the Greens are recognized not only for having brought to discussion such an important matter as animal welfare but also for having made use of this excellent instrument of our democracy, which if we want to be involved, which is the petition. Then I would like to say the following: concerns about animal welfare have been on the agenda for the intervention of the Greens for many years, through, inter alia, several legislative initiatives presented by the Greens Parliamentary Group in this House. The Greens proposed to Parliament the construction of a basic animal protection law; in the following legislatures, The Greens gave priority to projects to combat organised crime and animal exploitation and also to proposals related to the prohibition of animals in circuses, matter, in fact, taken up in this legislation. Then we also have the proposals to combat the widespread slaughter of animals, requiring a new paradigm of control of the animal population, or the end of the television broadcast of tourdas, which were issues that deserved specific proposals from the Greens in the past legislature, and subsequently I am also worthy of taking up the proposals to reduce and eliminate the use of animals for scientific purposes. Parliament has therefore, over the years and over the various legislatures, been creating important legislation on animal welfare. And if it is true that Parliament has not recently agreed on the issues of animal welfare, it is also true that this is a path that, in the Greens' perspective, it is important to continue to travel, but that it cannot leave an assessment of some of the practical consequences of what has been legislated. See: Law No 92 / 1995, designated by animal protection law, has determined the general principle of prohibiting « all unjustified violence against animals ». In turn, Law No. 69 / 2014, adopted in XII Legislation, amended Law No. 92 / 1995 by assigning more active rights to animal protection associations, as regards the fight against violence against pet animals, and on the other hand came to create a specific title in the Criminal Code on crimes against pet animals, in the perspective of ill-treatment and abandonment of animals. However, four years have passed over the entry into force of Law No. 69 / 2014 and, from the perspective of the Greens, it is important for society to know in some detail the practical effects of its application, as well as the difficulties that may be encountered in its application, so that it is perceived whether they are being met, or to what extent they are being met, the objectives to which this Law is proposed. That is exactly what The Greens recommend. The Greens, with their draft resolution, want an assessment of the application of Law No. 69 / 2014 that allows us to see what is failing to, on the basis of that, we can legislate. Therefore, to make it clear, in this discussion, the Greens do not propose criminalizing psychological abuse to animals, they do not propose criminalizing the excessive confinement of animals, nor do they propose to punish neglect due to lack of care for animals. What the Greens propose is the creation of a working group that can evaluate the application of Law No 69 / 2014 and prepare a report, to be sent to the Assembly of the Republic, which allows us to understand what is failing, so that we then act accordingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u281	To present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Ángela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP always intervenes and will continue to intervene for the welfare and animal dignity, but without resorting to alarmist and demagogic attitudes, which in no way benefit the relationship between human beings and the other animals. First of all, we congratulate the subscribers of the petitions under discussion in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic. In order to respond to some expressed concerns, the CFP brought up the debate a draft law establishing measures to implement an emergency plan for the creation and modernization of the network of official animal collection centres, where solutions for the resolution of concerns that Mr. Petitioners identify. The establishment of the official animal collection centres, unfortunately, is not yet a reality throughout the territory. This is due to successive delays in the regulation and the provision of money that is clearly insufficient by the government to implement the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u284	on the part of the Government, there was no willingness or determination to take the measures and to create the effective conditions that would allow, within two years, the network of official animal collection centres as determined by law. The abandonment of pets and the absence of sterilization generate many more errant populations...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u286	... and this increase still generates overcrowding of the official animal collection centres. Consequently, the increase of errant animals on the streets will create insecurity between people and a public health problem, as some associations alert. It is necessary to ensure the conditions for the implementation of Law No 27 / 2016, approved unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic. With this draft law, the CFP proposes measures to enable the establishment and strengthening of the network of centres for the official collection of errant animals, the adoption of exceptional measures for the capture, control, transport, collection, sterilization and vaccination of animals, with a view to safeguarding public health, as well as the strengthening of the financial and human resources to enable such collection, sterilization and vaccination of errant animals and of company. With regard to the remaining legislative initiatives here under discussion, we must say that the CFP considers the situations of maltreatment or abandonment of animals to be condemned. Mistreatment and abandonment of animals are not problems that are solved by the intervention of the police or the courts, much less when it acts after the ill-treatment happens instead of avoiding them. What enables social, cultural and environmental developments in this area are preventive measures of awareness-raising and discussion that avoid situations of abuse and abandonment of animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u288	As the CFP has come to stress and as it has been observed, the legal creation of the type of crime has not solved or will solve the problem. To insist on the option of criminalization and the application of penalties is to reintroduce into error and is based on a retrograde conception that it is with the creation of types of crime or the aggravating of prison sentences that solve the social problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u290	It is the wrong option and the PCP does not follow that option. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u291	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to welcome the subscribers of the three petitions on this subject, today under discussion. These petitions address, on the one hand, at the national level, the need to revisit the issue of amendments to criminal legislation on animal welfare and, on the other hand, on the specific level, two local aspects which also reflect some difficulty in implementing legislation recently adopted by Parliament in the previous year with regard to the cessation of slaughter in municipal canes and the discontinuity of a public policy which ceased to make sense and did not really address the best way of ensuring and making animal welfare compatible. Indeed, I begin with the first point, which concerns advances in the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals, as a way of achieving, sustainably, an increase in public concerns, of the State, in relation to animal welfare. In 2014, the result of these advances was palpable, having been the object of an improvement in 2015, with a view to correcting some of the first aspects that law enforcers stressed were insufficient in the law, but we still recognize that it is not enough to resolve many of the interpretative doubts that have been generated in the application of the law. in this same legislation, despite the presentation of other petitions and also initiatives from various parliamentary groups, it was not yet possible to revise this regime, in fact we ourselves, the PS Parliamentary Group, presented measures that sought to achieve this objective. Therefore, indeed, the agenda is still on the agenda for the improvement and closure of this introductory chapter — we call it the criminal law and the criminal protection of pets. We know that the problems are, of course, in the definition of the concept of « errance» and of the penalty for « death», when it occurs without suffering for the animal, in cases of qualification of some conduct and even in matters of caution, where the bridge is made for the matter of criminal proceedings. The problems are identified and we hope that it will be possible, even in this Parliament, to resume initiatives which have fallen to 1. the Commission, and await the vote, now a few projects presented here, which, although we cannot fully follow up - we have already noted that this is the case of the project presented by the NAP - contain some subjects which may be discussed in the field of expertise. We therefore call for a vote not necessarily at this time, so that there may still be some work on some of these matters, for which, I repeat, we have availability, in line with what we have presented in the past. Even before I conclude, I would like to leave a note on another aspect that has been presented to us and that is here under discussion. Now, before, I also note that we follow the philosophy underlying what The Greens are proposing: a balance sheet of law enforcement, to see where we still have to improve. It seems to us that we already have some diagnosis, but indeed a working group that can bring together and present a more comprehensive range of conclusions can be positive. As I said, another aspect on which I would like to leave a note has to do with the following: it is important to bear in mind that the transformational change — I would say — that it was introduced in respect of non-choice for slaughter in municipal cans and collection centres was duly accompanied by the concern of trying to provide means for institutions which, in the first line, are called upon to respond, in particular, to municipalities, to respond to this matter. We accompany and understand the many concerns expressed by the other parties and the petitioners regarding some municipalities that were not sensitive to this issue, but we must reiterate the following: there was availability and line of budget funding that could have been activated for this purpose, both for the construction and requalification of canes, or for a policy of sterilization. Unfortunately, this support was to be taken full advantage of, because many of the municipalities in this country did not resort to the same line. I must say that, of course, this does not relieve us of the public responsibility to continue to identify and strengthen the missing means, but the fact is that the means were made available and, in many cases, the lack of perception that the law was even going to change led to many authorities not doing the housework or having chosen to do so in due time. Therefore, we do not necessarily call for a reform and a very profound change in the funding frameworks, but for municipalities to adhere to what is available and to do what some municipalities, curiously, before even there is a credit line, had already done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u293	Attention to time, Mr President, would you like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u294	... having, on its own initiative, changed municipal policies in terms of animal welfare. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u295	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Rui Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u296	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rights of pets or of any other animal must have the exact measure to enable people to establish balanced and healthy links with them. Legislative initiatives that devalue the role of man will not defend, with effectiveness and balance, rights that are intended to be established in favour of the environment and the life that surrounds them. The proposal of the NAP, full of goodwill and compassion, aims at profoundly altering what was established by the legislator in the previous legislation, derogating the will and parliamentary representation expressed by an expressive majority, which had defined the application of the rules of criminal law only in the case of pet animals, and intending to place under the same penal regime all conscious vertebrate animals, whether domestic or wild, with or without economic advantage, or of mere company. Well, this is not acceptable! Equally applicable to all animals, the rules open to an indeterminate universe of behaviors that the legislator never wanted or planned to punish, moving away from reality and common sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u297	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u298	Almost all the less sensitive behaviour — present in economic activities, domestication, training, art, scientific research, reduced freedom for company — will be subject to scrutiny by the courts and may lead to bizarre convictions. Without criterion, time and method of closure will become criminally censorable, without being defined, specified and except for the circumstances that may lead to the verification, or not, of the concept of "excessive restriction of natural expression". The Greens' proposal can make sense, therefore, before legislation is passed over the legislation in force there must be time to monitor and mature this legislation. However, two notes are required: the first one is that we are flooded with resolutions that are not complied with by the recipient; the second one is that it is up to the Government to assess, at the right time, those to whom the law has assigned powers, the impact of the legislation in force, realizing the measure of its implementation and the adequacy of its programmatic dimension. The proposal from the CFP, which once again indicates that this Government does not comply with or honour the word and makes it dependent on the efforts of third parties - in this case the authorities - to achieve its objectives, seems to us to be adversely affected by the insufficiency of the Environmental Fund. To judge by the countless priorities, it must not remain twenty to accept the commitment to the budget expenditure which, with this proposal, is precisely intended to be entered. Greeting the petitioners from the outset, despite the merit of the petitions submitted, the petitioners are barred from the insufficiency of the legislative proposals under consideration or from the work that has been developed by the local authorities of those territories, being to highlight a set of municipal charisan initiatives that anticipate the concerns that have now been shaped. The authorships of the Aveiro region have aimed at creating an intermunicipal channel with poles in Aveiro, Águeda and Ovar, whose architecture is approved, awaiting validation of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ), while preparing the necessary execution projects for competition and construction of the work. We have recorded the vast set of 28 measures implemented by the city of Braga, which include numerous intervention projects and awareness-raising actions associated with its official collection centre and public and private institutions, which removes any doubts and generates expectations about the effective and effective implementation of the public policies in question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your strict compliance with the time available. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u300	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, a word of greeting to the people who have submitted these petitions to the Assembly of the Republic. The Left Block Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns which are expressed in them, from the petition that specifically concerns animal welfare policy in the city and region of Braga, with evidence of priorities in policies of sterilization, capture, sterilization and return, of recognition of the figure of the Community animal, all of them that seem very positive to us and that we follow. Also the petition submitted by people from the city of Aveiro seems absolutely acceptable, given that the absence of a municipal canile or a collection centre is surprising, at least, and cannot remain as acceptable. Finally, Helena Xavier da Costa's third petition deserves further consideration from me. In fact, it comes to the position expressed by the Left Block, which is that important changes were made in the criminal-legal regime on animal abuse, but the proposal we had presented went beyond what was actually possible to consecrate. Therefore, we follow the observations and suggestions that are made in this same petition. in this sense, with regard to the legislative initiatives before us, the Left Block Parliamentary Group makes the following statement: firstly, we do not oppose the fundamental meaning of the Greens Ecological Party project. It is important that there has indeed been a rigorous assessment of what has been the application of the law of 2014, of course the Left Block has already submitted, and will maintain, proposals that were not possible to make a legislative path, because they had no parliamentary support for this purpose. But we have the conviction that it is necessary to go further in what is today the regime provided for in the Penal Code on animal abuse. Secondly, on the initiative of the Party of Persons — Animals — Nature, we believe it is important to make two essential observations. First, it should be stressed that the title of the NAP bill is misleading, because it talks about pets but then its content does not have to do with pets,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u301	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u302	... significantly expands its spectrum of action. It will be important for the NAP to correct what is manifest. On the other hand, I must say that, with regard to the crime of abandonment, our reserve position is this: the NAP intends to criminalize any situation of abandonment which it means, let us say, regardless of the responsibility of the guardian of an animal, but we understand that there are situations which, from this point of view, are disappearing. That is to say, there are situations in which it is clearly a form of negligence that must be socially reprobate, but there are others in which the very economic capacity of those on the basis of this situation must be achievable to this end. I believe, therefore, that we have to make some different evaluation, but I am sure, and in this I follow Mr Delgado Alves, that the work in the specialty — so the NAP wants this proposal to take this path — will allow us to better calibrate these aspects. Finally, thirdly, with regard to the proposal from the CFP, to create an emergency programme, we do not oppose, in the belief that this will not prevent the law which is adopted and which signals to the municipal chambers the obligation...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u303	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u304	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, we do not oppose the creation of an emergency programme, in the belief that this will not prevent the law that is passed, and that it signals to the municipal chambers the obligation to follow a policy not to eliminate errant animals, is scrupulously and intransigently applied. Therefore, to create an emergency plan, there is certainly no doubt, provided that this does not mean abdicating the intransigent application of the law in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u305	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to these various initiatives, I would like to say, firstly, that we can follow the concerns expressed in the petitions by the petitioners, which I welcome. We understand and follow these concerns, but we can follow the solutions contained in them is already a little more difficult, for reasons that I will try to explain. Legislation in this area has been evolving. We have very recent legislation in 2014, we have a set of rules that regulate animal access to commercial establishments, the prohibition of slaughter, the abuse of animals. The legislation has evolved, in the overwhelming majority of cases, with our support, and has evolved, in our view, in a positive way. With regard to the project of the People's Party — Animals — Nature, on which, moreover, I endorse what has just been brought up by Mr José Manuel Pureza, when he said that, in fact, there is a misleading element, which is to know the sphere to which it applies, we can accompany his concern, but it is very difficult to follow the solution presented. This is because, Mr André Silva — and I, who have disagreed with you so many times in this case until I can agree with your concern — what you propose is not easy to apply. He speaks in all kinds of sensitive animals, when he refers to ill-treatment, psychological abuse and confinement itself, but it is obvious that the kind of animal we are talking about is not indifferent. It is not indifferent to the example given, a dog that is trapped in a current, or the confinement of another kind of sensitive pet, be it a mouse, be it a pig, whatever it is. We are not strictly talking about the same thing. Anyone who has a minimum sensitivity to the animal issue understands that the case of a dog—and we see these examples several times—who live under a current is an unacceptable situation, and I agree with you in that assessment. But how long can he be caught up to? Under what circumstances? What's the solution? Therefore, Mr André Silva, I think that the great challenge in this area is perhaps to recognise that legislation has already been drafted, that this has been a progressive step in the right direction, and that perhaps now we will have to leave a little to the courts and to the jurisprudence itself the appreciation of such situations and matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u308	... because they will have to have an evaluation of the courts themselves and of justice itself, in order to know what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. What is confinement? Is an apartment in question? For how long? How much space does it have to be planned? All this together, Mr President, then makes a good solution in this area impossible. I remember until we approved, at the same time, the prohibition of slaughter. Now, if we prohibit the confinement of animals and at the same time prohibit the slaughter, where will the animals stay? It is precisely to the collection centres that will stop many of these animals — whether we want or not — and, of course, for all reasons, it is precisely in these collection centers that confinement is greater. So what do you do? We cannot have the confinement of animals, apart from certain rules—and obviously we all condemn the ill-treatment—but if we cannot have the confinement of animals in certain spaces, in houses, for example, to a certain extent, then animals that are stopped at a gathering centre cannot be confined. Or will they be confined? Oh, my God! Open... It is clear that all this is a bit contradictory and therefore it seems to me to be a law of difficult application and even of difficult interpretation, with regard, for example, to the rule of when there are maltreatments, of when there are psychological mistreatments, since this depends on the species and many other things. Therefore, perhaps, it is necessary to leave to the reasonableness and good sense of the courts the application of the legislation. When this application is checked, then we will make an assessment to know whether it is having good results, or not, whether it is being properly applied, or not, until we are constantly changing it. It is our position, for example, in relation to the project of the Greens Ecological Party, which proposes a reflection, a working group, a study. in this case, we do not have a position of opposition of principle, as is evident, because studying and evaluating the law is always a good idea at the beginning. On the other hand, the projects that speak in need...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u309	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u310	I will finish, Madam President. The projects that speak of the need for support to the authorities, whether in Aveiro, or in Braga, to monitor and allow the application of this law, do not, on our part, have an opposition of principle. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u311	To conclude this debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In summary, it is intended to improve the law and provide for four attitudes as a crime: excessive confinement of pets, psychological abuse, neglect and the act of abandoning an animal. It's an opportunity, ladies. Members, to demonstrate consistency between what they proclaim and how they vote. It is an opportunity for at least once to vote in favour of a minimalist proposal which provides greater protection for pets. Even with regard to the PCP bill, and because someone may be distracted to see this debate, it should be noted that since 1925 municipalities have an obligation to have canis, reconfirmed competence in law, through several diplomas, over the last decades. This initiative is no more than an attempt to deceive people about the picture of total negligence towards animals that have been attended for years in municipalities, including those chaired by the CFP. I would like to give here some examples: in Setúbal and Palmela, the canies have no capacity and there is no support for associations; the same is true in Loures, where the canile is illegal. in these councils, the associations have thousands of animals in charge and not 1 € of support by the chambers. Also in Moita there is no support for the associations and the executive refuses to dialogue with them; in Monforte, the canil is illegal and the municipality refuses to do CED programmes ( capture, sterilization and returns) ; in Sixal, where animals are deposited in an unhealthy pavilion, the municipality, which does not support the associations, invested 400 000 € in the reconstruction of a bull market. The PCP likes animals very much—yes, we already know! — especially those seen in the sand. [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u313	The debate on this item on our agenda is thus concluded. We will move on to the third, and last, point, which consists of the discussion of Petition No 457 / XIII / 3. a (Joaquim Marco Ferreira da Silva et al.) — Amendment of vehicle tax. Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u314	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the subscribers of Petition No 457 / XIII / 3. on which I had the responsibility of being rapporteur and drawing up the relevant report. In summary, the petitioners consider that the amendments introduced in the 2017 State Budget with regard to the Code of Vehicle Tax to be binding on new vehicles and that it is unfair that Portugal is one of the European countries that most taxes imported new cars and vehicles. in this assumption, the petitioners request the change of vehicle tax in order to comply with European legislation and to promote the car market in Portugal. They therefore support an opposition to VAT on motor vehicle tax and also argue that the reduction of vehicle tax should be considered not only in the cylinder component but also in the CO2 component. It should be noted that we are talking not of imported vehicles but of used vehicles imported, that is, of vehicles registered in other European countries and of their importation into Portugal. They also appeal to the petitioners a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, but I would like to make it clear that in this judgment there is no question of whether the impact of the cylinder component and the CO2 component should necessarily occur and whether taxation and escalation should be defended in proportion to time. I would also like to make it clear that for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group it is clear today that the compatibility of national legislation with European Union law with regard to VAT taxation on a tax base based on vehicle tax is unquestionable. The State budget for 2017, which is concerned, used precisely the principle of creating a proportional reduction over the life of vehicles, taking into account the cylinder rather than the CO2. In our view, the legislator, with this fiscal policy, has understood to apply reductions, as I said, to the cylinder component, leaving out the environmental component. It is our understanding that it has done well, because it has given consistency to the taxation of new vehicles and used vehicles, insofar as the acquisition of each and others must be governed by principles of fiscal justice and respect for the environment. I'll finish by leaving two recitals and one question. When we are all committed to achieving the commitment made by the Portuguese State at COP 22 in Marrakesh to achieve carbon neutrality until the end of the first half of this century, when we expect the year 2019 to be marked by the conclusion of the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality 2050, when, in the 2030 horizon, the National Programme for Climate Change 2020 / 2030 and the fulfilment of the emission reduction targets associated with it would be perceptible a fiscal policy that called into question these objectives and that it did not have in its genius a less favourable treatment of more polluting automotive mobility solutions? In our understanding, the answer is certainly 'no' and that is why we cannot, with the greatest respect and understanding, follow the position of the petitioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u315	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u316	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and greet the cause they bring us here. Mr Fernando Anastácio, I will not be harmed by trying to turn your speech into a speech for humans and ordinary citizens. What is at stake is what you said. In other words, what is at stake is the second largest option that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese families have to make, from the point of view of the acquisition of goods, is the car. Next we know perfectly well that the overwhelming majority of families, when they have to make a difficult decision to acquire some good, that good is the car. What's going on? Due to budgetary restrictions, often this option is not by a new car, which, compared to the international market, is, as a rule, more expensive than in other countries, by a car used. What's going on? The user market obviously has a great demand and certain prices that are at first substantially higher than the price of those used in other countries of the European Union. For example, the same used car of the same year can cost Portugal, not for market issues but for taxation issues, almost twice as much as it costs in Germany. That's already a market distortion. Imagine that, if necessary, users, not having enough supply for the demand that exists on the Portuguese market, will look outside the European market for other vehicles to satisfy their demand. in this case, the value does not duplicate, can be quadrupled. You can tell us about Marrakesh, you can tell us about environmental issues, but you can explain to those who sell cars every day and to those who buy cars, perhaps from 10 to 10 years old, why the same car in Portugal has to cost four times what it costs in Germany. It also explains who is benefiting from this difference, whether or not it is the State, which, abusively, through taxes, is binding on the market and, in this way, who, in Portugal, intends to do his business with all legitimacy and, above all, the buyers, the citizens, who, in Portugal, see themselves with enormous difficulties in achieving this acquisition. All this would be only a political discussion if it was also not legally a violation — from our point of view, a serious violation — of Article 110. the Treaty of Lisbon. There is clear damage here, a differentiated treatment which is not acceptable under the Treaty of Lisbon and therefore the CDS will present an initiative in this House recommending to the Government a number of procedures to be able to correct this situation. [[CDS-PP and public applause from the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u317	Now can the audience ever beat hands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u318	We will continue with the interventions. Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u319	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the more than 4000 petitioners, in particular those present. The petition places the finger on the wound and leaves naked the options of this government, the responsibility of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block. In a sinuous and capped way, he gives here and there a bonus, which makes pay violently for all Portuguese in the form of tax, additional, fee or contribution. The contribution has up to several and new variants in the State Budget for 2019, from extraordinary to special or municipal. The State Budget for 2019 is rich in creativity. In constant improvement, the result is always the same, i.e., go to people's pocket on any pretext. The case of the tax on imported vehicles used is paradigmatic of the intellectual dishonesty that the Government uses to justify the creation and aggravating of taxes. As a tax in which taxation has two components, the cylinder and CO2 emissions of the vehicle, only applies a reduction to the cylinder component and leaves out of the reduction to the CO2 component, thereby affecting the principle of legality, failing to comply with European legislation, in particular Article 110. the Treaty of Lisbon. The Government's intellectual dishonesty is clear when it justifies the increase in taxes to promote environmental education, but in this case it no longer applies the mechanism of deterioration. The petition exposes the government's strategy, which is to make vehicles the engine of fiscal consolidation. The Portuguese are surrounded by taxes! The entire heritage of people and companies is threatened by the tax creativity of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u320	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u321	... whether mobile or real estate, for personal or business use, more modest or more sumptuous. From the modest 'pope reforms' to the last and sophisticated shout of car technology, it must bear the aggravated vehicle tax, the single traffic tax with its additional, the additional oil and VAT tax on ISV (vehicle tax) and the ISP (oil and energy tax) as well as the additional. According to the State budget for next year, if the car is owned by a company, it will still suffer an increase of 50 % of autonomous taxation compared to last year. Recalling the card we have : IUC (Unique circulation tax) and its additional; ISP and its additional; ISV of importers — disregard of the environmental component; VAT on all taxes and additional; and culminates with an increase in autonomous taxation on IRC (tax on the income of collectives). A full hand of taxes to make the taxpayer the most! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u322	For an intervention by the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u323	Madam President, I do not refuse to make an observation: Mr Cristóvão Crespo must have walked until this year and only this year did he start driving, because only now has he discovered all these taxes. Looks like this whole thing just turned up now! [[Rice from PCP and PS Members.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to express our greeting and consideration to all the citizens who have applied for this petition to this House, asking the question of taxation which is applied to motor vehicles. This is certainly a debate that must continue and the CFP will continue to be available for the debate in a constructive and serious way, with an issue that matters, however, to emphasize: the question of social justice which is underlying. Allow me here to recall Article 104. the, paragraph 4 of the Constitution of the Republic : « The taxation of consumption aims to adapt the consumption structure to the evolution of the needs of economic development and social justice and must pay for luxury consumption ». Now, we know that this situation does not affect the car segments all equally and we cannot ignore that there is a situation of deep inequality in which the layers of the population with less purchasing power continue to have much more difficulties in this area—in fact, just look at the statistics of sales in the car sector in recent years and take into account the impact and relative weight of the sector rent-a-car in these sales. We reaffirm our view that social justice and the concrete living conditions of people cannot be forgotten in the midst of debates on energy transition, the decarbonization of society, etc. etc. etc. Furthermore, someone who thinks about environmental objectives while maintaining the lack of collective, very serious transport that exists in Portugal is not facing the central problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u325	When the benefits and advantages are directed to other segments, other layers, I would say other models, which, generally, to a large extent, are very far from, in particular, those who have less and less can, we alert to the need to look differently at this taxation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - one last note to express our agreement, the agreement we have always stated - and I believe that this issue has not yet been mentioned - with the idea that there should be no such situation of double taxation, tax, which occurs with VAT on the ISV as referred to in the petition. It is indeed a debate that we must continue and, on the part of the CFP, we reaffirm our willingness to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u326	For one last intervention, Mr Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who have come here, to the House, their opinion on the need to change the vehicle tax and also on certain aspects of taxation affecting the car sector. This opinion is always quite respectable, especially when it arrives at the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, and should therefore be hailed as a exercise of democracy which is important to emphasise and applaud. In any case, not all petitions and any reasons for supporting them shall be accepted unanimously here in the Assembly of the Republic. in this particular case, the CDS and the PSD welcomed the reasons that petitioners put forward as an essential argument the idea that the price of used vehicles is a price that, in Mr. João Almeida's view, exceeds four times the price of the same vehicle in other European countries, in particular in Germany, and that this price escalation would only originate tax issues, i.e. the tax burden on vehicles. Well, that's not true. It is a fact that in Portugal, with regard to ISV, used vehicles have higher taxation than in other countries of the European Union, but it must be noted that excise duty taxation, as is the case with ISV, always has a nature of tax guidance for consumer choices which should not be underestimated or disregarded. That is, when certain special taxes on consumption which constitute factors which, in the view of fiscal policy, must be corrected because they are harmful either to the economy, to the environment, or to health, or to other components of consumption and investment in Portugal, these tax policies should be considered as a whole and not considered alone. That is why, in the case of all the excise duties that exist in Portugal, there is also double taxation. Double taxation is not specific to ISV, all special taxes on consumption, such as tobacco, also have double taxation. Other goods which have special taxes have the problem of double taxation. Therefore, we cannot look at this special taxation alone, we must do so, yes, because it does or does not meet the objectives that sustain that taxation. In the case of vehicle tax there is, of course, a guideline for promoting the renewal of the car park in Portugal to be made on the basis of cleaner and less aggressive vehicles in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u328	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u329	Madam President, I shall conclude immediately. From this point of view, it can be said that all the amendments that have been made, in recent years, concerning taxes on the car park in Portugal have always had the same fundamental orientation, which is to promote clean vehicles, collective vehicles, in particular, which replace the pattern of urban displacements which is greatly distorted in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u330	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u331	Madam President, I will now conclude this idea. As I said, the pattern of urban displacement is quite distorted in Portugal because the excessive use of the car for daily travel is something that harms the environment, damages health and also harms the Portuguese purse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-17.u332	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Thursday, beginning at 3 p.m. and with a very extensive agenda. of the first point is the general discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1825 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government immediately adopt all the procedures and measures necessary for the construction, within the shortest possible time, of the new facilities of the Paediatric Center of the University Hospital Center of São João, in Porto, and 1702 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government unlock the construction of the new pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João ( Porto ). of the second point is the general discussion of the Bills No. 873 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme, 913 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme 1012 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Amends the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme by strengthening family reception, promoting an effective policy of deinstitutionalization of children and young people, and 1018 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Care Implementation Scheme in order to create new rights in host families. In point three, the general debate of the Bills Nos 940 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Ends with the possibility of suspending the retirement condition of judicial judges for the exercise of the functions of arbitrator in tax matters ( fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Tax Arbitration ), 941 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — End with the possibility of using arbitration by the State and public legal persons and 934 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters. At the fourth point, we will generally have the discussion of the Bills Nos. 997 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the autonomy of hospital entities integrated in the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources, 998 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service, 974 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — regulates the legal regime and the statutes applicable to health units of the National Health Service integrated into the administrative public sector by repealing Decrees-Laws No 18 / 2017 of 10 February and No 284/99 of 26 July, 1015 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — autonomy for hiring professionals by hospitals, hospitals and local health units integrated in the National Health Service and 1016 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Law of Commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012, of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). of the fifth point is the debate of draft resolution No 1771 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — At the end of the Fertagus concession and the integration of the Lisbon / Setúbal railway service into the CP. Finally, at the sixth point, draft Law Nos 1000 / XIII / 4 will be discussed in general. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates training schemes for drivers in an equal framework of criteria and with the same requirements ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 1001 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns competence to municipal chambers for the licensing of cars with a view to individual passenger transport activity on decharacterised vehicles from electronic platforms ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 1002 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — The definition of prices and tariffs with clarity, transparency and stability and establishes an approved tariff that prevents price fluctuations, preventing the sale with injury ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 994 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revoking Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity on uncharacterised vehicles from electronic platform) and 1014 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Revocation of Law No 45 / 2018 of 10 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform ). Good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 54 minutes.]]
