ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please proceed to the opening of the galleries. The first item in our agenda is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII — The second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification for technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of work and for the management of work which is not subject to the special legislation and duties applicable to them, and the first amendment to Law No 41 / 2015 of 3 June establishing the legal regime applicable to the exercise of construction activity, following the political veto of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u2	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u3	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u4	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u5	About the progress of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u6	Yes, Mr President, about the progress of the work and what you just announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u7	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u8	Mr President, the vote script which has been distributed within the prescribed time limit by all Members. Members did not include any vote on this matter. It seems that it was until 6 p.m. yesterday that proposals could be put forward and these proposals were not distributed to Members either. I would therefore ask Mr President to clarify whether we are going to vote today on the subject of the presidential veto and how Members can have access to the proposals that have been put forward. On the other hand, I would like to know whether there is any awareness that, with these proposals, if they are approved, we are also amending the Statute of the Order of Architects, which is the legislative competence reserved for the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u9	Madam Member, the explanation I can give you is as follows: the Conference of Leaders has established as guidance for this point, moreover, it is scheduled to have the debate take place and that during the debate the proposals for a speciality amendment, which, in accordance with the decision at the Conference of Leaders, have been presented, without error, until 18 hours yesterday. These proposals were sent to all parliamentary groups. The Bureau cannot comment on how the parliamentary groups could or could not bring them to the attention of the honourable Members. Members, members of each parliamentary group. As it will be that, in the debate that will take place, these proposals, already presented and distributed, will certainly be appreciated in the speeches to be made, it follows that they will also be the subject of vote today, as decided at the Conference of Leaders, at the time of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. at that time, there will be an additional script where these amendments will all be recorded. This is the Bureau's response to Mrs Helena Roseta's relevant appeal. Let us therefore start the debate, with the intervention of Mr André Silva, of the NAP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we re-appreciate the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII, following the veto of the President of the Republic, which returned it to understand that the diploma approved by the Assembly of the Republic, without any new fact that justifies it, is finally transforming the transitional regime, calling into question the broad consensus obtained at the time and constituting a backwardness in relation to that negotiation. However, we maintain the same understanding because we consider this Decree to be of the greatest justice, based on two essential points: the failure to comply with Community law on this matter and the recommendation of the Ombudsman. In fact, it is intended to cease this situation of violation of Community law by ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005/36 / EC, which determines that it is possible to subscribe architectural projects to civil engineers who have graduated from four Portuguese universities ( Porto, Coimbra, Minho and Technique de Lisboa ) and that they have started their course until 1987, having the Ombudsman issued a recommendation, warning that the Law should be clarified, recognizing civil engineers that right. The existence of contradiction between the provisions of national legislation and the Directive has led to discriminatory situations, such as the fact that foreign civil engineers can develop and subscribe to architectural projects in Portugal and civil engineers with training in Portugal may develop and subscribe to these projects abroad but not Portugal, which must be resolved. In keeping with our position, we put forward a proposal for an amendment to the Decree which aims at clarifying its application, expressly referring to the Community Directive and thus clearly identifying the recipients of the standard. On the other hand, it includes only professionals who have subscribed between 1 November 2009 and 1 November 2017 to projects of architecture that have deserved approval, thus safeguarding the legitimately acquired rights of those who have done so throughout their lives and who, by or near the end of their professional career, have seen their rights alienated to be replaced by uncertainties, with consequences for both their life project and their employees. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that this new wording gives greater legal certainty and meets the concerns expressed by the President of the Republic and, indeed, it also corresponds to a proposal which the Socialist Party has put forward and, in particular, defended as a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u11	You now have the floor, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP reiterates its statement of vote on this matter in its statement of 16 March. We continue to defend the objective of consecrating and fulfilling the right to architecture, which ensures that architecture is exercised only by architects and that the path to this objective should not ignore the concrete situation of those professionals that the State has always recognized and certified as qualified, not extending this scope. The Decree adopted by the Assembly of the Republic and now in review intended to take into account the recommendation that the Ombudsman addressed to the Assembly. That is the context in which the question remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u14	In view of the legislative initiatives of the PSD and the NAP, the purpose of the CFP was and is to intervene constructively in the debate, seeking to contribute to a just and appropriate solution. This has always been the position and attitude of the CFP throughout this process and throughout this discussion. Always! When some preferred silence games, trench wars or the pure and simple party attack, the PCP intervenes and continues to intervene in order to enable concrete solutions to concrete problems. Following the return of the diploma by the President of the Republic, specifically calling into question the question of the project of architecture, and in view of the contribution of several professionals in the sector, including architects, in the sense of a re-evaluation of the approved text, we now propose that, at this stage, it be considered as an alternative solution to the formulation which was presented on this matter by the PS Parliamentary Group, in the field of expertise, in the legislative process and which was not then taken to the vote. Thus, our proposal to resume the formulation originally presented by the PS aims to address the problems identified by considering the principle of the right to profession and by clarifying the scope to which it is addressed, thus allowing it to overcome the situation it is placed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u15	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the CDS bench in this matter is a word of respect for the position of the President of the Republic. In the legislative procedure, the President of the Republic has his own powers, which are his, among other things, to promulgate or veto diplomas coming to him from the Assembly of the Republic. And in this case, Mr President of the Republic has decided by the veto, which has led us to make this reassessment here. There is one point on which we agree with Mr President of the Republic. Mr President of the Republic drew attention to a very relevant point, which is that of the confusion in this legislative process of two totally different matters and that they do not even serve to answer the initial question of this legislative process, which was the communication from the Ombudsman to Parliament, asking Parliament to resolve a question — a question of acquired rights, according to Mr. Ombudsman — concerning engineers of four specific courses at the University of Porto, Coimbra, the Ministry and the Lisbon Technique, to whom, in 1985, when Portugal acceded to the then EEC, it was recognized the right to be able to sign architectural acts. in this sense, the CDS was always very critical of the fact that they joined this legislative procedure, which aimed, above all, to answer the question of the Ombudsman, parallel questions, issues that have raised up to the confusion of this same process, namely that of architects and engineering, which led to the President of the Republic's intention to veto this same diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u17	What a bad story!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u18	So we must also remind the parties what we had said at the time: it is not good, it is not good to make this same confusion in these legislative processes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u20	... because what Parliament was supposed to do was to give an effective answer to the Ombudsman's question and not to others. The CDS, in this regard, understood in the initial vote of the drafts as giving voting freedom to all its Members, not even voting on their bench, and this is a position that the CDS will maintain in the vote we shall make today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u21	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are reviewing the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII, replacing the acquired rights of Portuguese civil engineers for access to the professional activity of architect and its exercise, under the conditions of Directive 2005/36 / EC. The purpose of this Decree and what has been discussed and voted on in the Commission is to restore justice and equality. With legislative developments, there have been some inequalities and injustices that we want to restore. In 1985, in the transposition of the Community directive, it was expressed that four civil engineering graduates from four universities — Coimbra, Porto, Minho and Instituto Superior Technique de Lisboa — had specific recognition to be able to sign architectural projects. These four undergraduates in civil engineering until 1987 / 1988 allowed them to exercise, in certain areas, the agents that were planned. This situation of these four graduates had a very clear and well-defined time limit. What happened, and in a very caricata way, was that, in some municipalities, some engineers could sign architectural exercises, in other municipalities, the law was not understood in the same way and could not, causing inequality in our country. Still in a caricature form, it also happened that Portuguese engineers could sign architectural projects in any country of the European Union — in Spain, Germany, etc. — the same happened to engineers in these countries under similar conditions, but Portuguese engineers could not sign in their own country. It makes no sense that they can not sign in their country and they can sign in another country, and the engineers of these countries can sign in Portugal. For our part, we want to clarify this situation, we want to raise a question of equality and justice that was not clarified. That is why we see ourselves in the recommendation by the Ombudsman, because a right acquired by these agents, these engineers, who met the requirements, is at stake. Much noise has been generated around these issues, which we hope will be clarified and clarified in this way. What is at stake is just these four courses of these four universities, and nothing else, and according to what we know are very few engineers in these conditions. In view of what we want, we welcome and follow up on the NAP proposal to clarify this matter, which is why we will vote in favour of it. [[PSD and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u23	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, also has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost 10 years ago, with the approval of Law No 31 / 2009, this Parliament has laid down the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for drawing up and subscribing projects, for monitoring of work and for the management of work. This Law repealed a decree-law of 1973, which allowed for more than 40 years some professionals, who, not being architects, could also subscribe to architectural projects. Law No. 31 / 2009 thus defined the necessary training and the conditions for the exercise of the actions of each profession as well as of the shared acts. This Law consecrated the right to architecture made by architects and, in our view, that is how it must continue to be. However, considering that there were other professionals, with different training, to whom the State recognized the possibility, for four decades, of subscribing architectural projects, some of these established their professional activity by developing and also subscribing architectural projects. After the entry into force of Law No 31 / 2009 and the transitional period of 5 + 3 years ended, these professionals, civil engineers, ceased to be able to subscribe to architectural projects in Portugal, but can continue to do so in the other countries of the European community. This discrepancy was noted by the Ombudsman in Recommendation No 2 / B / 2015 sent to this Parliament. In view of this recommendation, and in view of the context described above, the Socialist Party sought to build a balance solution which could provide an adequate, fair and proportionate response to the concerns of the Ombudsman and to the preservation of any rights acquired, bearing in mind always the effort that had already taken place, with all the parties in 2009. in this sense, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposed that the holders of those engineering courses, listed in Annex VI to Directive 2005/36 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council, could then continue to subscribe to architectural projects, but under certain conditions that seemed essential to us. In essence, we believe that the alleged acquired rights were considered only when they had been effectively and recently exercised and that the scope of these projects did not extravade their powers until the repeal of Decree-Law No 73 / 73. In addition, we believe that engineers who meet these conditions should be registered in a state body, or in whom it delegates competences, so that they can be officially recognized, empowered to subscribe architectural projects under the conditions defined by law. Our proposal, which has not been approved or attended as a specialist in the legislative process, is now being recovered by the punishment of the CFP and the NAP. We therefore believe that this amendment, which covers only a small group of engineers, conditioned within the framework of their action, is in line with the recommendation of the Ombudsman and, above all, the political veto of the President of the Republic. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u25	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens followed the legislative process that would culminate in the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII, which we have now appreciated. And we have followed this legislative process in that we have contributed to its approval by our vote in favour. We did so because we were absolutely aware, as we are still aware, that this diploma aims to remove a flagrant injustice that is installed for a set of professionals. In this regard, it should be noted that there is a truly defined universe of professionals to whom the State not only promised as it created expectations regarding the exercise of a particular activity. We are talking, only and so alone, of pre-Bolonha undergraduates, initiated until the 1987 / 88 academic year, which the Portuguese State considered appropriate for their licensees to acquire the skills necessary for the exercise of an activity. More: not only is the universe of professionals perfectly delimited, in the case of civil engineers, to whom the diploma now in re-evaluation aims to guarantee the legitimate expectations created by the State, but also these rights will cease to exist with the end of the activities of these professionals, since others, in the future, cannot be covered, simply because the diploma does not allow it. He won't allow it, and fine. In fact, it was not by chance that the Ombudsman himself considered the current situation as discretionary and unacceptable, including having asked this House of the Republic to clarify the situation with the recognition of the acquired rights of civil engineers with training qualifications obtained in Portugal, whose training was started until the formal year of 87 / 88. In view of this picture, the Greens continue to consider that the diploma comes, in fact, to restore justice and intends to prevent the state from giving the lie. Nevertheless, the Greens are making every effort to express their willingness to follow up on all the proposals which, in our view, will help to remove any doubts, if any, and to clarify their intentions, if there is any question to clarify. In fact, from the perspective of the Greens, the central question is not so much whether these civil engineers, who are perfectly demarcated — by the Order of Engineers accounts will be 200 — whether or not they may develop architectural projects, but whether or not the State should or should not say so. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u27	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time, Mr President of the Republic vetoed a diploma that was removed from many confusions, from many illegalities and, above all, from a way too fast to solve a problem that has been dragged down for many years and which has sought to be resolved, in our view, in an intransparent way and above all, little discussed by the Assembly of the Republic. I remember that the proposals that were voted in the specialty, in the indexary vote began by having a formulation that took into account the role of the architects' order in the definition and approval of the architectural projects and that the Socialist Party ultimately replaced the role of the Architects' Order by the Institute of Public Markets, Real Estate and Construction. We believe that this alternative formulation which, at the time, deserved our disagreement, does not solve the problem and, above all, departs from this discussion and from this decision, from deliberation, an essential entity for bailing on and approving architectural projects, which is the Order of Architects. With this approval of the law, the Assembly of the Republic makes another mistake in the name of a hurry whose reason is not understood and makes the mistake of continuing to put aside the Order of Architects as an absolutely essential entity to decide on all architectural projects. All of them! Be large, be small, provided they are architectural projects I believe the Order of Architects should be called upon to pronounce on the matter. Therefore, it is true that there is a situation of acquired rights for certain categories of Civil Engineering bachelorship initiated until 1987 in the four university institutions referred to above, and that it is necessary to guard, it is no less certain that the entire transitional period between Law No. 31/2009 and the days of today has already been sufficient to allow even these engineers to acquire competences to formulate and submit architectural projects. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block continues to believe that this solution is confused, it is a solution a bit hammered on the knee and, for that reason, it can even — and in our opinion, it should — justify a re-evaluation more time and, above all, with more discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from BE and the Deputy of the PS Helena Roseta.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u29	With no further entries on this point, we move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u30	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u31	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u32	Mr President, to ask a question under Rule 80. , paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u33	Mrs. Member, what's the number? My erudition doesn't go so far as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u34	Mr President, then I quote : 'Deputies may ask the Bureau when they have doubts about the decisions of the Bureau or on the orientation of the proceedings'. I have a doubt I wanted to put to the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u35	Just a moment, Mrs. Deputy. In fact, what the honourable Member is asking is to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u36	Mr President, the heading of this article is « Invocation of the Rules of Procedure and questions to the Bureau ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u37	It's about the orientation of the work, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u38	That is a question to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u39	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u40	Mr President, the heading of the proposed amendments to the Decree which we are currently reviewing refers to amendments to Law No 31 / 2009 and Law No 41 / 2015, but, if this is approved today, does not refer to a very important thing, which is the amendment to Decree-Law No 176 / 98 of 3 July, which was amended by Law No 113 / 2015 on the Statute of the Order. Therefore, the heading is badly rebutted, because this amendment will require to amend the Statute of the Order, which is reserved competence of this House. That is the question I am addressing to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u41	Madam Member, as I have just mentioned, the matter will be entered in a supplementary script for the purpose of voting in the appropriate period. The question you have raised may be noted, in particular, by the honourable Members. Members who are the authors of the amendments and the Bureau are receptive to the fact that, if there is any clarification, it can be made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u42	There's no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u43	If it is at the time of the vote we will see; if it is not, that will not be necessary. Let us, as I said just now, move on to point two of our agenda. This is the assessment of Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February, which establishes the basic restrictions or reference levels relating to human exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from lines, installations and other high-voltage and high-voltage equipment, regulating Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September[ Parliamentary assessment No 59 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE) ]. Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 30 / 2010 intended to regulate the mechanisms for defining the limits of human exposure to electrical and electromagnetic fields derived from installation lines or equipment and high and high voltage and aimed to protect and safeguard public health, citizens, these electromagnetic effects and attributed to the Government since 2010 the responsibility to regulate that Decree-Law in matters which was fundamental to the protection of these citizens. The fact is that seven years have passed without the regulation that allowed law enforcement and the protection of the health of citizens to be seen in daylight. REN continued to build high and very high voltage lines and to apply for the licensing of several of these lines. Now, with all the lines that can be seen for the coming years, built or licensed, comes the regulatory decree. Better late than ever, it's true, and it's good that the regulatory decree has come. But what is not acceptable is that the lines that are not yet constructed, although licensed, are not subject to the rules of the regulatory decree in a clear and explicit manner. The image that this gives, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one more ticket to the REN, adding to what was given to it for seven years, without regulation of this Decree-Law. It is essential to ensure that the regulations take effect on all the lines that have not yet been built. This is our first amendment to the regulatory decree under consideration. By analyzing this new diploma, Decree-Law No. 11 / 2018, it is concluded that the distance from the lines to sensitive infrastructures — schools, health centres, permanent residences, etc. — varies between 25 m and 45 m. These are standards that are about 25 years old, which are not adapted to scientific, technological advances, studies and research that have been made on this subject. Can these reasonable distances be considered? Is the principle, which is required, of precaution in such a sensitive situation as this one? In fact, it is not just — and this was already serious — an inconvenience, a change in people's lives, in the quality of life of citizens and even in the loss of the value of heritage. This is the increase in the incidence of oncological diseases to which populations are subject, with no compensation possible. It is therefore necessary to exercise the precautionary principle. It is in this sense that our second proposal for amending the regulatory decree is going to be amended. We expect these distances to be reviewed. We propose that, in order for the principle of caution to be applied, there should be a minimum distance of 100 m in the high voltage lines and that there should be a minimum distance of 150 m in relation to the most sensitive installations and residences. It is in this sense that we say that the regulatory decree cannot only be a good intention, it must be applied on all lines and, on the other hand, that the precautionary principle, in such sensitive matters, must be effectively observed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u45	Mrs. Members, before the Secretary of State uses the floor, I would like to ask them to work together to create conditions for the normal hearing of interventions. For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On September 2, 2010, Law No. 30 / 2010, of this Assembly of the Republic, was published in the Diário da República, in order to regulate the mechanisms for defining human exposure to electromagnetic fields resulting from the operation of high and very high voltage lines. In Article 2. that of the Act, it is indicated that the government is responsible for its regulation, i.e. the indication of the maximum limits of human exposure to electromagnetic fields. That is what this Government has done after several years of legislative inaction. In February 2007 a working group consisting of health and energy specialists was set up to hear, consult health organisations, other Member States and national network operators. The report of this working group was made available for public consultation on 5 June 2017, moreover, announced here, in this House by me on 6 June 2017, and four contributions were submitted, two of which of the network operators. It is in this framework that the Government approved Decree-Law No. 11 / 2018, which today, in addition to regulating Law No. 30 / 2010, introduces new dimensions of protection in the analysis of the issue of electromagnetic fields, which had not been considered in the law of 2010, which took seven years to be regulated. It was therefore possible to introduce new restrictions on the location of electrical infrastructures in relation to sensitive infrastructures, the obligation to minimise electromagnetic fields, the need for increased information among citizens, the obligation to develop five-year monitoring plans for electromagnetic fields by operators. Finally, the Decree-Law regulates the issue of electromagnetic fields in accordance with practices recommended by international entities on the subject, in particular the Council of the European Union and the World Health Organization. This has resulted not only in defined exposure levels but also in a set of practices for minimizing the intensity of these fields and increasing information among citizens. Even relevant note, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: This diploma, by orientation to the services and by the legal interpretation that we make, Mr Pedro Soares, is already applicable to the licensing procedures that are under way. In any case, this is a very relevant issue for health and energy and the government, of course, is available to work and to improve what it has taken seven years to do, which is now done, but which, of course, it is always possible to improve in a loyal spirit, dialogue and dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u47	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Electronic pollution is one of the most common and growing environmental influences today. Therefore, the World Health Organization has expressed concern about the consequences of exposure to electromagnetic fields to health. For this reason, the issue of electromagnetic fields is highly sensitive to the existence of social anxieties and fears, particularly for communities where new high-voltage and high-voltage lines are planned. Law No. 30 / 2010 conferred on the Government the competence to regulate the levels of maximum human exposure admitted to electromagnetic fields derived from high-voltage lines, installations and other high-voltage equipment, with a view to safeguarding health within the framework of the World Health Organization's guidelines and best practices in the European Union. However, for almost seven years no one has done anything and only now, with Decree-Law No. 11 / 2018, that law of 2010 was regulated by complying with the Government Program, which establishes as a priority to promote health through a new ambition for public health. It should be noted that the levels of human exposure to electromagnetic fields, adopted by this Decree-Law, are those provided for in international recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 1992 regulatory decree, referred to in the parliamentary review here under discussion, relates to the removal of high and very high voltage from sensitive infrastructures rather than to the levels of exposure adopted by Decree-Law No 11 / 2018. in this context, it is Law No. 30/2010 itself that determines that until 2023 all high-voltage and high-voltage installations and equipment should be located or adapted to meet the limits of human exposure adopted in Portugal and, as it was said, internationally. On the diploma now approved, and subject to parliamentary assessment, it should be noted that for the first time in Portugal, mechanisms are approved that advocate basic restrictions and reference levels for human exposure to electromagnetic fields, as well as restrictions on the passage of high and very high voltage lines in places where health units, educational establishments, homes of elderly people, residential buildings, sports equipment, parks and children's recreation areas, among others. In addition, Law No. 20 / 2018, of today, May 4, comes to strengthen the rules of protection against exposure to electromagnetic fields. Now, the legislation advanced by the government and based on the current knowledge of national and international public entities protects the interests and health of populations. However, because it is important to prevent risk situations and given the importance that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to attach to the defence of people's security rights, we will also be available in this area to receive contributions to improve the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u49	Mr António Topa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Secretary of State for Energy: The Left Block has requested the parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February, which has in fact set the criteria for minimizing and monitoring the exposure of the population to magnetic, electrical and electromagnetic fields that should guide the planning and construction phase of new high and very high voltage lines and the exploitation phase of them. Such a request from the Left Block has the basis that the so-called Decree-Law applies only to new lines, installations or transport equipment and distribution of high and very high voltage. On the other hand, it also mentions the Left Block that, according to the International Agency for Research against Cancer, which integrates the World Health Organization, based on several publications made from 2000 to 2007, it is mentioned that in the low frequencies, of the order of 50 - 60 Hz, inherent to high and very high voltage, magnetic fields are potentially carcinogenic to people, for the values of the intensity of magnetic flows greater than 0, 4 μT. As such, it will be necessary to apply the precautionary principle, regulate lower radiation levels, in order to minimize the risks to people's health, including childhood leukemia and other possible cancers and neurological forum diseases generating an additional safety factor. From the perspective of the PSD Parliamentary Group, after the strength of Portuguese and European legislation and several scientific articles and analyses, we can point out that Portugal has sufficient legislation to ensure the total safety of people and goods under and in the immediate vicinity of the lines, in accordance with the latest recommendations of international health organisations. Portuguese legislation and regulations respect European legislation and recommendations of the World Health Organization and the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Unionizing Radiation. For several years, the World Health Organization has done an exhaustive survey of credible studies on the effects of electromagnetic fields... [[Pause.]] Mr President, I would ask you to ask the Members. Members to keep quiet so that I can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u51	You are quite right, Mr President, I made this request to the plenary a little while ago, and I will do it again. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are in colloquiums outside their usual places, please contribute so that the speakers will listen and the others may also be careful. [[Pause.]] I'm making a recommendation to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to quote any Members individually. Don't force me on that, please. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. I mentioned that for several years the World Health Organization did a comprehensive survey of credible studies on the effects of electromagnetic fields, taking into account the most sensitive sectors of the population, such as children, elderly and patients, and exposure values that could cause undesirable biological effects were identified. In order to counter this, a set of basic restrictions, accompanied by Portuguese legislation, were set reference levels through the application of a safety factor of 50, resulting in reference values 50 times safer than the threshold of being able to cause undesirable effects. All Portuguese legislation requires the lines of the National Energy Transport Network to comply with the recommendations of the European Union and the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u54	Mr. President, I had to interrupt my speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u55	Yes, Mr President, you may continue, but I am already giving you some tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u56	In other words, the legislation implies compliance by the competent national authorities, in particular through better regulation to be carried out through the Decree-Law under consideration herein. Our legislation covers the stages of design, construction, monitoring and permanent monitoring, being sufficient to establish the principles of caution, information and protection of citizens. In accordance with the above, we see no use in this Parliamentary assessment, however, respecting the perspective and objectives of the Left Block with its presentation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u57	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Greens have given great importance to the issue of electromagnetic fields in their parliamentary intervention, not just. We believe it is undeniable that there are concrete effects, already public knowledge, on these very high-voltage lines that the REN is imposing from north to south of the country — when I say 'imposed', I am referring to the specific issue of tracings. The truth is that, as already mentioned, the World Health Organization attaches concrete consequences to these electromagnetic fields at the level of health, particularly with cancer effects. The International Cancer Research Agency has also classified these fields as possibly carcinogenic to humans, especially at risk of concrete childhood leukemia. But in addition to these effects, there are also those who are of public knowledge, such as intense noises, rest problems in relation to populations in the immediate vicinity, neurological problems, finally, the development of a significant set of diseases. in this sense, it is essential that political decision-makers look at this matter with the concrete idea of applying the precautionary principle. And what the precautionary principle tells us is that even if there is — I will call it this — discrepancies in scientific conclusions, what must be done is always to follow the logic of decision avoiding risk. in this sense and in this concrete field of which we are talking, the way to avoid the risk is precisely to remove the traces of the very high voltage lines of the population agglomerates. This is fundamental. Just that the REN, for economic and cost reasons, often prefers the tracing to pass over the urban agglomerations, and that is that we cannot accept. But the REN comes to the point where, for example, they see this economic vision and a profound logic of giving in to some interests, not basically taking any care of public interests, when it comes to certain enterprises and golf courses, to be careful to install the line through the basement, which we normally call 'the burial of the line' — that is when it comes to certain economic interests. But when it comes to population clusters, the line literally passes over people's heads. This cannot be accepted! On this subject, the Greens have already presented a number of legislative initiatives in the Assembly of the Republic. Even in this legislature, the Greens Bill was approved, which reinforces the rules of protection against exposure to electromagnetic fields. We considered it our duty to contribute to greater care in relation to the tracings of the very high voltage lines, and in this sense, we precisely focused on this project the importance of defining minimum distances and also maximum levels of human exposure. We also presented another project, in which it was argued that it was essential that there was a binding opinion of the municipal chambers, which have concrete competences at the level of the spatial planning, for the definition of the traces of the very high voltage lines. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party did not accept this proposal from the Greens. The mandatory, but not binding, opinion of the municipal chambers was bound by law. In other words, the law was not as far away as the Greens understood that it should go. With regard to the parliamentary assessment that we are assessing today, I would like to say that the Greens are associated with the concerns and proposals that the Left Block brings to this issue of the cases under the concrete application of the Decree-Law that we are considering.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u59	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In this regard, although they are not convergent in relation to electromagnetic fields, both health and scientific evidence of health damage, the CDS believes that there are already enough studies and literature to adopt, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia says, the principle of caution. By reading with some attention the proposed law that the Government is bringing to us, we have found that it already has more information, more monitoring, more planning and more containment measures. So it would seem to us that Portugal has successfully followed up with this legislation the European Union's set of recommendations to, even if there were still doubts about the harmful factors to public health, we can act, and I am afraid that we will do so. Therefore, the CDS considers that the legislation we are considering today is enough and it is a novelty. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members of Parliament, as a result of a rule of the State budget, will begin to appreciate the investment plans of the REN, in addition to the regulator also make such an assessment. So, even in advance, we have knowledge of the extent of the operator's network. We still need to involve the municipalities in this matter, and we can do so. Therefore, more involvement of municipalities, more involvement of inter-municipal communities, more involvement of Parliament — which appreciates and issues opinion on the electricity transmission network — plus this Decree-Law and I think that are sufficient elements for us to play the role of the Government and Parliament in this matter. Still, the CDS will never oppose the strengthening of monitoring and protection media. It seems to us, therefore, that this Decree-Law which we are discussing today makes sense, so we do not follow the proposal of the Block of Left of Increase of legislation which, by itself, already takes a significant step in the protection of people and goods, in the protection of public health. I remember that Parliament also assessed the REN investment plan, where the high-voltage and high-voltage networks are. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u61	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We appreciate the Decree-Law which sets the criteria for minimizing and monitoring the population's exposure to electrical and electromagnetic fields that should guide the planning and construction phase of new high voltage and very high voltage lines. Before entering specifically into the content of this Decree-Law, I think it is fair to mention that this is intended to regulate a law that was passed in the Assembly of the Republic in 2010. That is, eight years passed until there was development and some realization of what was established in the law approved in 2010. in this Decree-Law that we are today to appreciate, there are some aspects that cause us doubts and that we consider that they present limitations. The first aspect relates to the fact that Decree-Law states that it applies to new lines whose licensing process begins after the date of entry into force of this diploma. It should be noted that the Law already provided that, after the regulation of human exposure levels to these electric and electromagnetic fields, there was a study, a survey of current situations and, when anomalies were identified, there were correction plans and established, including deadlines for such correction. This is a fundamental issue because, in addition to the intervention and planning that are necessary for the new lines and new maps, the Law also provides for an intervention in existing maps and planning. This is an aspect which has no realisation and which also needs to be materialized in this process. That is, it is not just a concern for the future, but it is to identify and correct what already exists, taking into account the protection of populations. The second aspect of doubt concerns the fact that Decree-Law refers the levels of exposure to the 1992 regulatory decree. The truth is that this has been the diploma that has been in force and the levels recorded in it, which is of concern to the population. What do you mean by this? This Decree-Law gives us doubts and it was important to have a deeper appreciation. We are talking about more technical, more complex aspects, but the fact is that today there are still affected populations, specifically in the locality of Barcelos, because in the whole of this line there are worrying questions and in which the precautionary principle must indeed be the one to be taken into account. The CFP Parliamentary Group has been monitoring these situations and taking action on these matters. What must be underlying these issues is that, in parallel with the development and economic progress that must exist, the protection of populations must always be present and must always be a priority. The precautionary principle cannot be sidelined. The principle of caution must be given priority in the approach to these matters rather than the economic interests of the REN, which are often imposed on the will of the people. In fact, the experience of Barcelos demonstrates precisely this: in all this process, populations, authorities, are not heard, their concerns are not taken into account. And this is also an element to be considered when planning the electricity grid in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u63	In order to make the final intervention of the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to make a final note on the positions of all parliamentary groups. With the law passed in 2010, during all these years the precautionary principle in this matter was apparently not considered. A note that needs to be pointed out is that for the first time the precautionary principle is taken into account precisely because of this government's initiative. And this is done involving the areas of health and energy. During all these years, licensing processes have not taken this precautionary principle into account, nor international principles, now taken into account. This work has been done and today we can be discussing it. I would also like to point out that this diploma applies to the procedures being licensed, and it could not be otherwise. As Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works well pointed out, the very appreciation of the investment plans became at the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, held precisely in the Assembly of the Republic. That is to say, there is a great deal of transparency and information to the people on all these issues, and I think that is remarkable. What I was asking is that this process can be unlocked as soon as possible. Indeed, it is very important that the investments that are needed on the network — and that are not paid by the REN or the EDP Distribution, are paid by the Portuguese consumers — can be made so that the cost-benefit is ensured as best as possible for all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u65	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u66	Of course, Mr. President. when we are a country that puts precisely on renewable energy and on the objectives of decarbonization and energy transition, it is necessary, at the same time, that we have the capacity to have capable networks and that, from this point of view, can also serve our objectives so that the issue of climate change is attacked, from the point of view of energy, in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should now like to announce that with regard to Decree-Law No 11 / 2018 of 15 February [ Parliamentary assessment No 59 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( BE ), proposals for amendments tabled by the Left Block Parliamentary Group have been tabled in the Bureau, which fall to 6. the Commission. We are thus in a position to move to agenda item three, which consists in the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1435 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the legal regime of the taxi sector in order to contribute to the modernisation of this transport ( CDS-PP ), 1553 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Modernisation of the taxi sector ( PCP ) and 1556 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends a set of support and promotion measures for the taxi sector ( PS ). To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, I wanted to begin by stating a principle, which the CDS has always defended, that the legislation on electronic platforms is different from taxis. This same understanding had the Government, which presented a legislative initiative in the first place only and directed to electronic platforms. And it was all the parliamentary benches, which put forward proposals, which introduced a balance, very in line with what Mr President of the Republic asks us to do, in the parts where the sectors are coincident. That was not the case and we would have legislation on the part of the government only and only on electronic platforms. Therefore, the CDS made this effort, to realize that we cannot give everything to some, thus not allowing there to be a healthy competition climate or a modernization of the taxi sector. In fact, the Government also realized this, so much so that, even before the initiative entered into force, it proposed giving the sector EUR 17 million and a set of measures for its modernisation. Therefore, the CDS, consistent and loyal, as soon as it finished legislation on electronic platforms, intended to present, first of all, a draft resolution for the modernization of the taxi sector. And why not a bill? Because the government has a working group that, with the sector, is trying to find a consensus on this modernisation. Now, we want to contribute. And we were so happy in drawing up this draft resolution that of the eight proposals contained there, only two were not accompanied by the other draft resolutions which entered Parliament. So, on our part, until we vote in favour of the other proposals, because we want to give the government the opportunity to modernise the taxi sector. And where do we understand that the sector should be modernized? in what is coincident with electronic platforms. Of course, on the vehicle. Why not a line of support, even because the government puts in the decarbonisation and protection of the environment a great focus, the sector's modernisation measures, including slaughter or processing for electric vehicles or for environmentally friendly vehicles? Why not, for example, give taxi businessmen the opportunity to temporarily suspend licences? Why not the training of drivers — which we intend to refer to as portaria — be similar or even equal, so that there is no distortion of the market, that of drivers on electronic platforms? We have indeed proposed some innovations, such as the possibility of having dynamic rates depending on the quality of the vehicle, the time or the demand, which also happens on the platforms. We have also proposed that the taxi service should continue to be the only activity carried out throughout the national territory, a measure of support at the tax office for the deprived populations or populations who need more of that service, in particular for health treatment. Therefore, these are balanced proposals, which are also asked for by the sector from time to time. Therefore, we are not inventing anything, we are just making our contribution so that the sector also has the possibility of, in competition, playing the game of consumer freedom to choose who fully understands. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before speaking to the next speaker, who will be Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, take your seat so that there are sound conditions so that you can make yourself heard under appropriate conditions. To present the draft resolution of the CFP, you have the floor, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first point we want to highlight in this debate is that the modernization of the taxi sector is neither, nor can it be, a counterpart or consolation prize for this sector in the face of political options that condemn its future, legalizing the unfair competition of multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u72	We will not allow this discussion, about measures that should have been taken for several years now, to be a bleaching operation of the attack that was carried out in a national base sector, composed of a vast majority of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives. In fact, before the veto that returned to this House this « Uber law », it is extraordinary that this multinational continues to operate impunityly on the edge of the law, while a taxi driver is today fined if he has a fire extinguisher in the car but in the wrong place. Meanwhile, we have the political hypocrisy of some who have shown complicity with this situation, now talking about measures to support the taxi sector which, for years and years, have blocked in successive governments. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not forget the abandonment, asphyxiation and attack that the taxi sector suffered by the right-wing policies, which almost condemned it to the disappearance. The CFP is proud to have already made an undeniable contribution to the sustainability of this sector and its micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with the reduction of the special payment on its own and with the fight, which we continue, for its extinction. We must not fail to recall the concrete measures which, however, must move forward without further delay. That is to say: in the tariff system and in its simplification and clarity, because we are transparent and we are against these dynamic tariffs that some try to impose as fashion; the modernisation and management of fleets, payment and billing systems and the support necessary to implement these measures on the ground; in the legislation and regulation of the sector, clarifying the existing schemes and their activities; In labour relations, in conjunction with the organisations representing workers in the sector. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of the taxi sector as a public service is inseparable from the right to mobility of populations, their quality of life, development and territorial cohesion. That is why we believe that, for many years now, the proposals we have put in the debate should have been implemented — and it was no longer timeless! We must move forward with the implementation of these proposals which we bring to the debate here in the House. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u73	To present the PS draft resolution, you have the floor, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals we are discussing today are not discussed because of the decision of the President of the Republic, we are discussing them in addition to the decision of the President of the Republic. If there is a broad consensus in this House, as in society, it is that the State must promote a real modernisation of the taxi sector. This modernization should go towards civil society, consumers, but also those working in the taxi sector. If there is a sector that performs a public service for citizens and for citizens, that sector must be substantially supported by the State and public authorities. in this sense, we know (and we all) that the government has made efforts, with the contribution of the sector, so that there can be a real modernisation in this area. We know (and we all know) those who are the demands of the sector, who seem to me, all of them, fair. It is in this sense that this House is discussing three draft resolutions today, which, essentially, have the same objective. As did the CDS, the Socialist Party also announces in the debate that it will vote in favour of the other proposals, because they have the same objective. And they have the same objective not despite but beyond the decision of the President of the Republic. We also believe that the debate on individual passenger transport must be done cumulatively, conjugated and comprehensively. But if there are decisions to be taken in individual passenger transport, we ourselves must be able to distinguish what is different from what is equal, if there are decisions to be made in individual passenger transport, it is possible that they cannot be taken all at the same time, or strictly at the same time, but if they have to be taken, they will be taken. And they will also be taken with the contribution of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u75	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that at this point in the agenda we are discussing three draft resolutions, the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, on the modernization of the taxi sector, but we will shortly vote on four draft resolutions on the taxi sector. This is because the fourth draft resolution we are going to vote on is the one that was discussed here a few months ago, when the legislation on carriages in uncharacterized vehicles was discussed, when the Left Block also presented, together with the BE bill on decharacterized vehicles, a draft resolution recommending to the Government the adoption of measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that the Left Block somehow preceded the very reasons for the veto of Mr. President of the Republic, which drew attention in his veto to the fact that the Assembly of the Republic had approved specific legislation on transport in uncharacterised vehicles and had not strictly said anything about the taxi sector. Mr Luís Testa of the Socialist Party may even want to paint the sky in a different color than blue, but the reality is that this debate is being provoked and accelerated by the veto of Mr President of the Republic. If it hadn't been that veto of Mr. President of the Republic, there would have been no such rush to run the debate on the modernization of the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u77	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u78	...and to ignore the measures that need to be introduced in the taxi sector for the transparency of the sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, Mr. Members here present a draft resolution which provides for a series of theoretical measures on the modernisation of the sector, but do not refer to the main measure which makes modernization of the sector difficult. And what is the main measure that hinders the modernization of the sector? It is the lack of transparency in the operation of the taxi sector. The Left Block is the only party in its draft resolution that has a concrete measure to end illegal, underground trade in taxi licences that exist in Portugal but does not exist in any other country in Europe. In the rest of Europe, taxi licences are issued by the authorities and, when they are no longer used by their owners, they are returned to the chambers and cannot be the subject of trade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u79	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u80	In our draft resolution, which will be voted on shortly, we argue that one of the first measures to be taken in the taxi sector is to introduce transparency and modernization in the sector, which is due to the abolition of illegal trade in taxi licences. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u81	Mr Nuno Magalhães asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u82	To call on the Bureau on the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u83	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u84	Mr President, Mr. Heitor Sousa has just said that the agenda of this debate by the CDS and its draft resolution had come to the tow of the veto His Excellency Mr. President of the Republic. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u85	Now, as this veto took place last Sunday, I would like Mr President to be able to confirm with the House, even to inform the people who are listening to us, which was the date of the penultimate Conference of Leaders, where this debate has indeed been scheduled. If you can provide this information to the House, we will all realize the lack of intellectual and political honesty of this last intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u86	All right. Of course, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u87	It is that of two, one : either the CDS has fortune-telling gifts, which I do not have, nor do I want to have, or, then, Mr Heitor Sousa has repeatedly missed the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u88	Mr President, the dates for holding the Leader's Conferences are public and therefore any one of the Leaders. Members will certainly be able to consult them. It is therefore easy to give the clarification requested by the honourable Member. The Bureau would need to make a computer consultation which would take some time, but I think everyone can do that. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of transport from electronic platforms is a matter that you have been in Parliament for about a year. It was a very long process, very involved, but it was a process that also took a long time because the Socialist Party could not find on its left minimum conditions agreeing and had to listen to and reach agreement with the PSD. In fact, we recognize that this debate takes place in a context that follows the veto, not promulgating the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic by the President of the Republic. However, the PSD is entirely concerned with what the President of the Republic is referring to, in Mr President's concerns, either on the question of tariffs — which, as you know, has always been our proposal, and only in place according to the Socialist Party has been dropped, so if it comes back to that value, we will not fail to strike hands — either on the question of taxis. With regard to taxis, Mr President, we are discussing three draft resolutions, and by extension we have nothing to oppose the discussion of the matter. In fact, we understand that it must exist, of course, because the taxi sector is different from what we have been regulating, but being different cannot be worse, being different is having different rules. In fact, we understand that taxi legislation needs to be revised because, as it is, it is not balanced, and we expect this debate to take place. However, this debate should not take place within the framework of these draft resolutions, which are very extensive. With regard to the Socialist Party and the CDS, the PSD is not opposed, but because it is not seen in the philosophy and considerations of the Left Block and the Communist Party will clearly vote against those of them. In any case, Mr President, there is another issue on which we want to draw the attention of this House and which is as follows: we are waiting for the government — which, in fact, has created a committee for the purpose of which the conclusions are delayed, but for which we are anxiously waiting — that there is an initiative to also move the government on the subject and in the taxi sector. It is a bit paradoxical that when everyone expects this legislation to be amended, the Socialist Party presents us with a draft resolution. In other words, the Socialist Party is asking the government to rule! All right, the Socialist Party is asking the government to govern and we hope that, from the point of view of this debate — I hope! — the draft resolution of the Socialist Party passes, and you will not have our opposition, so that it, with the Government, tells you to govern and present a document that we can appreciate and change here in good time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u90	Although some benches still have time to intervene, I understand, because there are no inscriptions, that we can close this point on our agenda. That's right, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u91	Did the government just walk around? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u92	We then move on to the last speeches, and in that sense Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the PSD intervention there is one question which is not understood, which is the following: objectively, what are the measures that the CFP presents and proposes to support and modernise the taxi sector that deserve your disagreement? Is it the simplification of the tariff regime? Oh, my God! Is there a definition of a 10-year age limit after the first registration for taxi cars? Oh, my God! Is there support for the acquisition of taxis with electrical monitoring? Oh, my God! Is there progressive means of electronic payment and electronic certified invoicing in all cars? Oh, my God! Are you disagreeing with this? Oh, my God! Is that why you're going to vote against? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, please do not insist on the idea that these liberalized multinationals are so different from the taxi sector, because the big difference is precisely that liberalised regime. While the taxi sector is very regulated and has to comply with the rules in force—and if it does not comply, as in the example that we gave to the extinguisher in the wrong place of the car— others, by the law that you wanted to approve, could place as many cars as you wanted, wherever you wanted and collect what you wanted from people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u95	That's not true, they have minimum and maximum values.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u96	This is not a matter of platforms or technologies, it is a matter of legality and it is a matter of unfair competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u98	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. So what we say is that, instead of presenting any proposal as a counterpart or as a consolation prize—what a weak prize would be! — the important thing is, indeed, to try to modernise an essential sector for mobility and for public service and not accept that there is this impunity which continues to occur while we are debating here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u100	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for a final speech on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate takes place on the initiative of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u102	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u103	The draft resolution of the CDS entered on 21 March 2018, was scheduled at the Conference of Leaders on 11 April, and the veto of Mr. President of the Republic was on 29 April, so it has no coincidence with the veto of Mr. President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u105	I was guessing rain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u106	You gentlemen are paladins!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u107	The debate was already scheduled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u108	It's true! They went to sleep!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u109	These are the consolation prizes for the taxi!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u110	We only vote on the resolution and not the recitals, and we believe that every parliamentary bench is free to understand and write what it fully understands about the matter—and, in the resolution, you are right, because we are, yes, in favour of transparency in the sector, we are, yes, in favour of fleet renewal, we are, yes, in favour of tax benefits, we are, yes, in favour of the modernization of the taxi sector, without confusing this with the new legislation that we have done, including by taking care to limit prices, both the maximum and the minimum.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u111	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u112	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the CDS will be perfectly available to cooperate, as it has always been, as soon as the government brings Parliament to modernise the taxi sector. The CDS has its contributions here, but it will be available to the Commission in the field of expertise to solve this problem, which is a problem of market and competition. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u113	The Bureau is waiting because it assumes that Mr Paulo Rios still wants to talk. But the truth is that the closure has already been done precisely by the parties to whom the word has been given at this time. That's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u114	They didn't ask me questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u115	The joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1435, 1553 and 1556 / XIII ( 3 ) is thus concluded. ( a). We will move on to the fourth point, consisting of a series of legislative initiatives, presented by various political forces and the government on housing. We will thus have the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 770 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Revises the revision of the urban lease law approved by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( CFP ), 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing leases ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, and to the new urban lease regime ) ( BE ), 848 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, to improve the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( the seventy-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November) ( BE ), 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate funding mechanisms to promote housing policies ( makes the seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September) ( BE), 850 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs counter-ordinary punishment for harassment in lease ( BE ), 852 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( Review of the Urban Rent Law) ( Os Verdes ), 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the suspension of deadlines for the new Urban Rent Scheme and for lay-off procedures ( BE) and 854 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes an extraordinary and transitional regime for the protection of elderly or disabled persons who have been leased and resided on the same site for more than 15 years ( PS ), together with draft resolution No 155 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate the procedures of the National Rent Balcony (NAP) and, in general, also with the proposals of lein. 127 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from taxation of property income arising from renting or under-renderment under the Accessible Rent Programme, 128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs differentiated autonomous rates of IRS for residential income in long-term housing leases and 129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to correct imbalance situations in the position of tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban leases and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. To begin this item on the agenda, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the residents, associations and committees of residents, representatives of the micro and small enterprises present here. I welcome the struggle they have developed in defending the right to housing. A mother, who lives with two children in an apartment with a room, with an income of 405 €, received notice from the landlord to leave the house until the beginning of next year. The school of children and the workplace are close to the residence and one of the children has several health problems. They have no place to go or incomes to support the high income values. A woman under the age of 65 received the notice to leave the house, whose lease goes back to 1982 in April of this year. She lives with her daughter, but the taken income doesn't support the current income values. One woman, with a lease contract 15 years ago, received the notice of the landlord's opposition to the renewal of the contract. Today pays 450 € of rent, which the landlord wants to increase to 850 €, by an apartment in Lisbon with 48 m2 in an old building without elevator. They are reports of concrete situations that are reflected in the situation in which thousands and thousands of families are in our country: residents and families who have raised their children and who today help to create grandchildren in the housing of a lifetime, housing that are seen as imminent to lose, not because they have not always fulfilled their responsibilities—and often valued housing at their expense—but because, without any justification, the landlord does not want to keep the lease; residents and families who want to start an independent life but who do not find stability with short-term contracts, renewed annually, that force them to walk with the house constantly on the back.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u118	All this is a consequence of the law of evictions imposed by PSD and CDS. A law that deprotected tenants and tenants, jeopardizing the right to housing through total liberalization of income values—leading them to achieve speculative and prohibitive values for most families, taking into account low incomes—and the introduction of mechanisms that aim to facilitate the summary, administrative and blind eviction of families. They are not comportable for families income values above €850 for a T1 apartment in Lisbon — if it is in the historical center already goes up to €800 —, or above €1200 for a T2. In port, the income value of a T1 is higher than 400 € and in the case of a T2 this value already rises to 700 € or more. In Évora, renting a T1 costs 450 € and a T2 already reaches 700 €. What families have the possibility to bear values of this nature, taking into account the national minimum wage of our country and the average wage, which is around 900 €? Workers, low-income and middle-income families, are being expelled from cities in an elitist process of the city itself where only very high-income families have the possibility to reside.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u120	The creation of the National Rent Balcony—which in practice is just as much a counter with a view to speeding up the clearance, removing the processes of the judicial route— clearly reveals the intentions of PSD and CDS: putting people on the street as before, without caring whether they had to go where or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u122	There was no dynamization in the lease market, contrary to what PSD and CDS insist on begging. There have been dozens of families displaced per week; closure of numerous micro and small businesses, trade, services, restoration and even industry establishments and their destruction of jobs; closure of culture, sport and recreation groups and other entities, such as student republics. There is an urgent need to stop the evictions. It is necessary to avoid, as soon as possible, that residents should be forced to leave the house where they live. It is necessary to stop the destruction of economic activity, the closure of local and traditional base trade. The social and cultural decharacterization of the neighborhoods must be stopped. So we have scheduled this debate and we have brought up a proposal for the repeal of the current law of urban lease, the most appropriate solution to put an end to summary evictions. With our proposal, we repeal an unfair, unbalanced law based on real estate speculation to promote the interests of speculative funds and economic groups. With our proposal, the disposal counter and all the mechanisms that facilitate the clearance are extinguished, returning the clearance action to the judicial route, where the rights of tenants are most protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u124	With our proposal, we resume the instruments that prevent the total liberalization of income values and also propose the suspension of the update of income values. Without prejudice to a deeper debate to be held in the field of specialty, there are some aspects we want to mention in relation to the proposals which are also under discussion today in the Assembly of the Republic. The State's role in housing policy cannot continue to be secondary or referred to a tax policy intervention as a result of proposals made by the Government. The solution for the lease does not go through the allocation of tax bills to the owners but, rather, by breaking up with the speculative interests installed and with the interests of the economic groups responsible for difficulties in access to housing, through direct intervention by the State in housing policy. by leaving this in the hands of the so-called ‘market’ and private interests, it has already been found that the problems of access to the housing we are facing today are not solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u126	In the landlord / tenant relationship it is necessary to protect the most disadvantaged part, the tenants, who are certainly residents over 65 years of age, residents with disabilities above 60 %, but they are also, we have no doubt, families with lower incomes and all families, because in this respect what must be protected is the right to housing. We therefore consider the proposals designed to protect only a part of them to be insufficient. Does a family whose residents are 40 years of age not deserve protection? And do young people and families who wish to be a family, or have already constituted it, not also deserve protection and see their right to housing safeguarded?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u128	The right to adequate, comfortable and adequate housing according to the family's aggregate must be protected and defended for all: for young people, for the working population, for the elderly, for people with greater frailty. That is also why the proposal we bring the debate is much more comprehensive and responds not to some situations but to the whole dimension of urban lease. We have demonstrated our willingness to deepen this discussion in the specialty, and we have also stated that our commitment and intervention is that, given the urgency of the situation in which the lodgers are located, it is urgent to stop the waste and defend the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u129	The ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will excuse the insistence of the Bureau but, in fact, there is an effervescence which is quite unacceptable so that we can hear ourselves. I would also like to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who duly value a space in this House called Lost Steps, which is a remarkable room, a magnificent space, and which is precisely and historically intended for all talks to be made at will and with the level of decibels which is adjusted to the intensity of each of these talks. So with all honesty, and don't take it wrong, I ask all of you and all of you. Members in favour of allowing for an acoustic and logistical climate appropriate to dignity that is required for our debates. I'm so sorry to insist, but actually, I can't help it. That said... [[Congrats from PS, BE and CDS-PP Members.]] No, no! Please... That said, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The Left Block today presents five bills to ensure the right and access to housing. It would be interesting to start by finding a European reality: the public part of the housing park in the Netherlands, for example, is 30 % ; in Austria it is 20 % ; in Denmark it is more than 20 % ; in France, in the United Kingdom, Finland it is about 20 % ; in Portugal, the public part of the housing park is 2 % and concentrated in social housing. We need to draw a conclusion: during these 40 years of our democracy, there was indeed no public investment to guarantee the right to housing, which needs a public housing park that guarantees this right to the various social strata of our population. Well, in addition to this, we now have a lease law which is the most liberal in Europe. This means the introduction of a huge imbalance in the market between the parties, between the landlords and the tenants, clearly in favour of the gentlemen. It is surprising that the authors of this liberalisation of the lease law now say that, after all, the problem of the housing crisis is economic growth. And it is surprising that this conclusion comes to this supreme political hypocrisy, because, in fact, the problem is in existence of a lease law which does not protect the stability of lease contracts and which favors real estate speculation, is in the lack of public supply of housing available for rental at reasonable prices, in the absence of a public housing park for the various strata of the population and which contributes to market regulation. It is clear that the market liberalized by this law, the deregulated and unbalanced market in matters which is an absolute need for people, imposes the strongest on the weakest, distorts completely market regulation and the absolute need for access to housing. It must be said that the right to housing is a constitutionally protected right and therefore it is not fair for those with a great deal of economic capacity to surpass those living with lower incomes in access to this right. The State, instead of protecting those who must be protected, has offered an official counter, paid with our taxes, to facilitate evictions. See the level at which the liberalisation of the lease law has come! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u131	Instead of giving guarantees to lease contracts, the current law makes tenants live permanently under the risk of having the truck of the changes to the door. It must be said that this spectrum in which tenants live permanently, the spectrum of the race, tendingly from year to year, looking for a house, increasingly difficult to find, increasingly expensive, in the suburbs, more and more far from the workplace, is not compatible with access and constitutional right to housing. They note that more than 4000 applications per year have entered the « waste shop » since 2014. The opposition of landlords to the renewal of contracts, increasingly at the end of just one year's duration of these contracts, has become a species in a more used way to demand the speculative increase in incomes or, alternatively, to send the tenant to the street. In fact, there is a housing emergency, especially in cities with higher real estate pressure, and this housing crisis has to be tackled urgently. With the almost absence of the public housing park, it must be through legislation that it becomes possible to introduce urgent elements of regulation of this market. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government do not have the possibility of voluntary accession to a kind of self-regulation on the duration of contracts, hoping that they are sensitive to tax incentives. With the speculative levels that the market has reached, and which, possibly, will continue to have, there will be no tax benefit that resists the speculative increase in the income that the real estate is witnessing today. There is a need for a profound change in the law of renting urgently, inter alia with investments in public housing supply, regulation of local housing and the end of tax exemptions to foreign real estate investment in the scheme of non-standard residents. The Left Block proposes the stabilization of lease contracts for at least five years, so that precariousness in housing does not continue to spread as it has been happening, as well as the imposition of limits on income increase, so that there will be only tax benefits if, together with long-term contracts, there is a limit to income, which we propose is 4 % of the value of the lease. But it is also necessary to guarantee the exercise of the right of preference in case of sale of the property, which is not being guaranteed to tenants and, even municipalities, as it was clear in the recent intention of massive sale of housing by Loyalty Insurance. It is also necessary to increase the public supply of housing and to make possible the contribution of the authorities in this effort by removing the limits of indebtedness of municipalities in investment in housing. We need to fight bullying in the lease, which in Spain is already criminalized. Finally, there is a need for a moratorium on waste, and it is necessary and essential that, until the end of this legislative process, there should be a suspension of the deadlines for implementing the NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme) in respect of waste. It is in this sense that the Left Block presents these initiatives to this House : we need to guarantee the right to housing and the challenge that is placed on our democracy is that at last Article 65. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic can effectively be applied. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u132	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is the case in a state of law and in the light of our Constitution, the lease assumes a social function of importance and it is up to the State to adopt legislative measures to encourage the market to supply in quantity, quality and price in order to satisfy the demand and realization of the right to housing. It happens that this is not what has happened, especially after the amendments promoted by the PSD/CDS government. Indeed, housing has turned into an important business sector and has been subject to the dictatorship of the interests of the speculators, a reality, in fact, that would lead to the brutal increase in incomes and the eviction of thousands of families from their homes. According to government data, the number of evictions has increased since 2013 and in the first nine months of last year, on average five families per day — I repeat, five families per day. In fact, we can even say that the law designated, in fact, with all the property, of 'the law of waste' has never sought to promote urban leases, rather, it has sought to introduce measures to facilitate evictions, as is the case with the creation of the National Rent Balcony, and to serve the interests linked to real estate markets. In other words, such a "dispatch law" no longer represents an instrument at the service of the speculators, a flagrant denial and violation of the right to housing and a complete liberalisation of incomes, which has been translated into the eviction of thousands of families in their homes and in the eviction and closure of many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in various sectors, collectives and popular associations. As we know, the review of the lease regime was in line with the offensive that the PSD/CDS government addressed to the rights of Portuguese people, including constitutional rights, as is the case with the right to housing, not having the slightest concern about the realization of this right and the quality of life of people. Nothing new, then. Moreover, the growth of tourism has been reflected in the availability of buildings, eventually removing thousands of homes from the housing lease market, reducing supply and increasing speculation and prices, being the absolutely prohibitive income for the overwhelming majority of families, which brings even more problems to the sector. The fact is that since this law came into force, the need to revoke it has been pressing. The Greens believe that it is necessary to take steps in order to effectively implement the right to housing, by dynamicing the lease in a sustainable, fair and credible way and ensuring stability and security for tenants, which will, of course, result in the repeal of the « law on landfills », but also ensure the suspension of annual income updates. These are the purposes of the proposal which The Greens bring to discussion today: to repeal the "law of evictions" and to suspend the annual update of incomes as a way to contribute to restore some balance between tenants and landlords and to walk towards the realization of a right which our Constitution raises the fundamental right, which is the right to housing. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u134	Mr João Torres of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Housing is one of the rights laid down in the Constitution which has been most commercialized. Subject to galloping speculation, exposed to growing tourist flows and the victims of political and legislative options wrong in the past, access to housing is today a clear priority for the Government, the PS and all the parties that present proposals in this debate. The Government has been well aware since the beginning of the legislature, and particularly in recent months, by raising the debate and analysis of the country's housing needs. The Government was particularly pleased to present a New Generation of Housing Policies, conceiving that it is not the families and citizens who must adjust to the market but that the market — yes, the housing market — must be regulated. Those who are lucky enough to live in a dignified and perpetual home in time cannot ignore the suffering of those who are not in that circumstance. And there are many, Mr. President. There are many elderly people or, for example, citizens with a proven degree of disability who are faced with the threat of leaving their permanent residence. Many families live without conditions of minimally acceptable dignity. There are many students who are in higher education and who barely pay for their travel as much as one place to live. There are many young people who adjust their lives because buying or renting a house today is more a luxury, it is increasingly a luxury and not the right that the Constitution provides. However, there were also many who were convinced that everything is signs of time, that everything is signs of a modern life, that everything is so because it has to be. It is very simple: when there is no option, there is no alternative left. We know that problems will not be solved overnight, but at least today it is clear that there is political will on the part of the Government to address the problems and housing needs of the country. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Exactly for this reason, in the PS we are proud of the steps that have been taken in the Government and in the Assembly of the Republic, where, in fact, we have already presented a draft basic law for housing, signed by the President of the Socialist Party and its Parliamentary Group and by Mrs Helena Roseta. When the Government proposes to improve the protection of tenants in a particularly fragile situation and to safeguard legal certainty in lease relations, we in the PS Parliamentary Group of course follow up. When the Government proposes to stimulate long-term lease to the detriment of housing solutions that are no more than precarious, we, in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, accompany. When the Government proposes the creation of an affordable lease programme, intended primarily for the middle classes of Portugal, we, of course, also follow up. But there are problems in the housing market whose response needs urgent effectiveness and also in this debate the PS Parliamentary Group says : « Present ». Mr President, in conclusion, to lead the agenda, as I believe the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group have done, it is not, however, the essential thing. The essential thing is that changes are felt in people's lives and therefore the spirit of dialogue and openness of the PS is complete in relation to its proposals, in relation to the proposals of the Government and the proposals of the other parties. Today, housing is no longer the poor relative of public policies in Portugal and with the discussion that will be generated today in Parliament, in the House of Democracy, our expectation, but also our effort and commitment, is that it will never be again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u136	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrangements for the installation and definition of the rules for the operation of the National Rent Balcony and the special clearance procedure have enabled this Balcony as a judicial secretary with exclusive competence to process the special clearance procedure throughout the national territory. The objectives of dynamizing the urban lease market, combined with the decongesting of the courts, outlined by this scheme, have not found effective realisation. The National Rental Balcony, due to the enormous gaps in its regime, does not present the expected practical utility, giving rise to a framework in which the overwhelming majority of the situations of non-compliance with lease contracts are resolved in the courts, which have greater effectiveness and speed in these matters. The situation is so negative that the only point of agreement between the divergent opinions transmitted by the associations representative of the owners and tenants refers to the inoperability and fragility of this Balcony. We understand that the creation of an entity with exclusive competence to process the special clearance procedure throughout the national territory, in order to allow speed and effectiveness in the occupation of the lease in cases of non-compliance with lease contracts, facilitating the operation of the lease market and investment in this sector of the economy, on the one hand, and decongesting the courts, on the other hand, would represent, in abstract, a great and commendable project. However, the reality shows that the proceedings of the current model make the National Rent Balcony not useful and represent an unbalanced and retarding way in relation to the resolution of this type of dispute. As such, it is urgent to reconfigure the procedures for the performance and competences of the National Rent Balcony, transforming it into a viable alternative in the resolution of these conflicts, implementing the objectives that were based on its creation and implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u138	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment, Mr Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The absence of previous government housing policies, associated with the crisis experienced and the responses given to us by the previous government, could not fail to result in the lack of 26,000 housing in the country. This value results from the most detailed investigation ever conducted in Portugal, with a strong participation by the authorities. Less expectable it would be that families, especially in metropolitan areas, even if they are not considered to be lacking, were faced with such a great difficulty of access to housing. This difficulty is recent, but it is growing and forces the government and some authorities to move from a housing policy that only addresses the most needy to another which includes equally all those who are failing to market. Basically, the previous Government did not imagine that another government would come next, this one, which, with the right parliamentary support, would lead the country to economic and social success standards which we knew were possible but which the right judged unthinkable. But what we could not foresee was that, after so many years of lamenting its degradation, if you were to attend a race to historic centers that, among various virtues, had such a harmful effect on housing, affecting the access of all classes of income to that same housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a sentence, this new housing policy pursues the objective of moving from 2 % to 5 % of the public-supported fires, promoting the lease market, rehabilitation and greater mobility of families, in favour of a more coherent country and protecting the most needy. Rental contracts should by definition be stable and long-term. This stability is important for tenants and their life options, but in normal circumstances it is also important for landlords. The proposals we make are not against anyone, they lack the active participation of the landlords, because they are the owners of the dwellings and, of course, they care about the most unprotected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, today we present three proposals for legislation before VV. Ex. First, the proposal for an affordable lease; second, that of the reduction of autonomous taxation rates, in order to encourage longer-term lease contracts; third, that of the corrections to the urban lease regime and the legal regime of the works in leased buildings, corrections aimed at the rebalancing of the relations between landlords and tenants, particularly those of older age or with significant physical limitations. First, the Accessible Rent Program promotes an extended offer of housing for rent at reduced prices, compatible with family income. We urgently need to increase the number of houses to rent. That is why we are addressing private owners, who, when entering this programme, will have a total exemption from income taxes from affordable rent. We demand contracts of a minimum duration of three years and extend the benefits to parts of homes to increase the affordable supply for higher education students and propose the existence of income insurance for landlords and tenants, to provide security to the contractual relationship. We need more houses and houses with lower income values. Secondly, because 10 years is the period necessary for a family to plan and develop their life plans, we propose that the landlords who enter into contracts with this duration have a significant reduction in the tax rate, applying this rule to a very large number of contracts, although of course with an income limit. The reduction of autonomous taxation rates will thus promote a longer duration of contracts, ensuring stability for tenants and owners. Finally, these three proposals in particular, and in response to an adverse situation, we want to protect everyone who is over the age of 65 or already had them when their contracts were transferred to the NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme) or if they have a proven disability of more than 60 % in contracts that have already been in place for more than 25 years. The amendments we propose to NRAU aim to ensure that these tenants are entitled to renew their contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our strategy is clear, but its implementation, after a participated public consultation period, cannot be done without the approval of this Parliament and, of course, the commitment of the authorities, the owners, the tenants' associations, the administrative structures and the third sector. It cannot be the rent to be paid for the poor regulation of other sectors. The lease must be protected, encouraged and balanced, both for families and for the entire sector. We therefore propose this shared challenge. So we want a paradigm shift that goes by no longer being the owner to become a user, by no longer doing it again and moving on to rehabilitate, and by extending the lease market, going to meet the owners of the houses, which we challenge, but protecting the weaker tenants, balancing a relationship that today is not, in practice, balanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u140	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At present we have heard all the parties that are part of this government solution talking about problems of the lease market in Portugal and, as we have already been accustomed to, they make a record of recent history, attribute all the blame to the New Urban Rent Scheme and do everything to hide evidence for all, which is the fact that there was no lease market before.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u142	There were evictions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u143	Yes, my lords! Just do a little memory exercise to remember the disastrous effects that decades of freezing income had in our cities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u144	The historical centers of Lisbon and Porto were places with devolved or ruined buildings, and the few that still remained inhabited, mostly, did not have living conditions, which led to a massive abandonment of the city centers to the outskirts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u145	So far too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u146	Yes, this was our reality, because those who presented good conditions were not placed on the lease market simply because the law in force did not permit it and did not inhibit it. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the reality we faced before 2012! [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u147	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that the PSD defends, as it has always defended, the right to housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u148	And the evictions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u149	... and which considers the existence of public housing policies essential. What does not accept is that these policies are carried out at the expense of owners and property rights. Not that! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Public housing policies are an obligation of the State and it is the State that has the duty to pay, not the private ones. In addition, this concern is clearly reflected in the reform of the urban lease that we promote by creating a protection mechanism for people over 65 years of age and with a disability of 60 % or more in lease contracts concluded before 1990.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u150	They promoted the evictions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u151	It is not worth telling a lie many times because it does not become true because it is said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u152	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u153	Unfortunately, the current majority of parliament has already largely reverted this reform and now, for purely ideological and preconceived reasons, try to repeat the recipe that has already shown to be disastrous: protection of the freezing of incomes, forced requirements, vital leases — the perfect recipe for disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u154	You guys were a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u155	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, public policies cannot be made at the expense of the owners or at the expense of the municipalities, are a constitutional obligation of the central State and it is up to the political power to ensure the balance between the right to housing and the right to private property. Nevertheless, and in spite of everything, the PSDP, as always, does not hesitate to participate in this debate and to be a party to the defence of what it considers to be the best interest of the Portuguese people, which is why it will present, today, a number of legislative proposals with a view to dynamizing the lease market, as it always always does not hesitate to participate in this debate and to be part of the defence of what it considers to be the best interest of the Portuguese people, which is why it will present today, a number of legislative proposals with a view to dynaming the lease market, such as: differentiation of the special rate of income from the preferential income for contracts of more than two and five years, and being part of the defence of the IMI (municipal real estate tax on real estate), which is considered to be the best interests of the Portuguese persons (municipality of the municipal public housing policies), which is the most important element of the public housing public housing policies ; ; the National Housing National Housing National Housing Committees ; equal or household ; equal or family ; equal or family ; equal or family ; equal or family ; equal or family ; equal or family ; the highest ; equal or family ; equal or family ; the highest ; the highest ; equal or family ; the highest ; equal or family ; the highest, the highest, the highest ; equal or family, the highest ; equal or family ; equal or family, the highest, the highest ; the highest ; the highest, the highest-level, the highest- or family ; the highest quality and the highest quality and the highest quality ; the highest ; the highest ; equal or higher ; the highest ; the highest ; the highest ; the highest ; the highest ; equal or family ; equal or family ; equal or standard ; the highest ; equal or standard ; equal and the highest ; equal and the highest ; equal or standard ; equal and social and social and social and the highest ; equal or standard ; equal and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and social ; equal and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and sound and Yes, because we are with the solution, we are not with demagogy, the populism that numbers deny. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u156	What's worth is that they were cleared in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u157	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u158	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The debate on housing must be a serious debate, contribute to an improvement in its offer and create conditions for everyone's access to housing. For this reason, the CDS reserved the next May 10th for Parliament to debate and discuss active housing access policies, in which the CDS will present several legislative initiatives of greatest relevance. From then on, a bill that creates an incentive to rent housing, reducing the autonomous rate of taxation at the IRS headquarters of the real estate income resulting from lease contracts for housing. In other words, it is proposed that, for lease contracts of more than one year and less than five years, the existing autonomous rate of 28 % should be reduced to 23 %; that for lease contracts of more than five years and less than eight years, that rate should be 15 %; and that, for contracts of more than eight years, the autonomous rate of income from that rate would be 12 %. We will also present a draft resolution recommending that the Government take the necessary measures to create a legal income insurance scheme, not an income insurance valid only for the affordable income market — as the Government has now proposed — but an income insurance valid for all types of rent for housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u160	With this insurance, they benefit the tenants, because they have greater security in the receipt of income, and they benefit the tenants, who thus are exempted from bonding or the need to have creditors. We will also present a draft resolution recommending that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force, ensuring their effective existence and proper use, through a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings. It is necessary to create effective and capable supervision regarding the existence and use of this reserve fund, which is essential, as I said, for the conservation of buildings. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Law No. 31 / 2012 of 14 August, constituted an important contribution to the promotion of housing and urban rehabilitation, while at the same time establishing a fair protection for the most vulnerable: elderly people, citizens with disabilities and citizens with economic disabilities. The Communist Party and the Left Block now want Portugal back in the 20th century.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u161	And the CDS wants to go back to the 18th century!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u162	Mr Member, listen, I always hear you too, if you don't mind. The Communist Party and the Left Block want to freeze their rents again and go back to the days of the New State. Don't count on the CDS for that. We want a country of the 21st century. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But serene? Can I go on? [[Continued protests of BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u163	I only ask you for one moment, Mr. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the President-in-Office who is making an appeal to the moderation of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Álvaro Castello-White, I ask you not to continue until the conditions for this are met. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to cooperate with the Bureau and respect the honourable Member who is speaking. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u164	Mr President, if I may, I repeat: the PCP and the Left Block want to refreeze their incomes and thus return to the days of the New State. Don't count on the CDS for that. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u165	Who misses that time is the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u166	We want a country of the 21st century, capable of responding to the problems afflicting the Portuguese, and a country that promotes access to housing, with a regulated lease market, with a stable lease market. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u167	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Coelho, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is perhaps an important day for the future of Portuguese and for the future of citizens who are most unprotected in our society. It is perhaps taking a decisive step towards an unfair, unrealistic and, to some extent, very dangerous law that has caused great instability in Portuguese families and in a range of people who should have the right to no longer have any problems with them. It was a law that essentially made the following: firstly, it preceded the transition times of old contracts for new contracts; secondly, it promoted contractual changes that accelerated this transition, since, by defining that by the absence of response to people accepting new contractual relations, it launched instability in thousands of families and hundreds of people; and finally liberalized the concept of deep works, also allowing them to put themselves in a situation of instability of their dwelling dozens and hundreds of people. This was the reality we found and this is the reality that, unfortunately, has not yet been resolved. Today, there are here in the presence of a set of proposals from various parties, by chance all on the left, I have seen no PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u169	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u170	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u171	I have, of course, the expectation that, within committee, we can have a new law, a just, balanced law, which respects the fragility of people and which, of course, also preserves the rights of the owners. We are faced with this set of proposals and we are aware that, in order to be well prepared, to be well worked, they lack some time and, of course, debate and discussion between the various proposing parties. That is why the Socialist Party, myself and also another political force have proposed that, until then, these people may have a sign of tranquillity, be at peace and be able to rely on Parliament. Therefore, it is very important that we can approve these bills, which mean suspension of evictions until new legislation comes out. It's not an infinite bill... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs PSD, I think only the PSD in Parliament did not understand this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u173	I strongly advise you to buy a daily newspaper that went out today, which has an interesting interview by Mr. President of the Cascais City Council. [[PSD protests.]] I strongly advise her to see this interview, because this is a problem of the autarchs too So today we are faced with a new reality and a decisive step. It took a lot of perseverance, it was a lot of attention, it was necessary to alert people to this reality. I do not want to end without leaving a greeting to the presidents of the parish board of the historic centre of Lisbon who are here, who have also suffered in the skin this situation,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to the President of the Association of lodgers, who is present here, with whom we have shared these difficulties for many years, and to the Vice-President of the City Hall of Lisbon, who is also present here. I am confident that, within a short period of time, we will have a new law, a just law, a human law and a law that can safeguard the interests of the most disadvantaged. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u174	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the left parliamentary abhors private property. Invokes Article 65. that of the Constitution, which enshrines to everyone the right to housing, but breaks Article 62. o, which enshrines the right to private property. Yes, all Portuguese have the right to housing, but the realization of that right is an exclusive responsibility of the State, it is only a responsibility of the State, not of the landlords. More: says the left that it is necessary to comply with Article 65. that of the Constitution and that it is therefore necessary to repeal the "Crist law". Why? Why? What does private lease have to do with this constitutional right? Do you want the left parliament to nationalize all private landlords and all buildings destined for housing? Yes, yes, we can say that the left parliament wants to follow that path. So he defended the freezing of incomes not to protect the elderly and people with disabilities, but just not to pay the income allowance. [[PSD applause.]] It therefore proposes the imposition of vital contracts, a version 0.2 of the income freeze, which transforms landlords into extensions of social security; therefore it defends the guaranteed renewal of contracts; therefore it speaks repeatedly of the protection of the expectations of tenants, but never of the expectations of landlords. This does not concern her, as she is not concerned by the fact that 16 % of the gentlemen in Portugal live simply in poverty. Therefore, it advocates the end of the evictions and refers to the law of 2012 as the law of the evictions. Not because you don't know that the urban lease reform led to the conclusion of 260 000 new leases in 2016 and 84 000 in 2017 ; not because you don't know that, of the existing 500 000 lease contracts, the National Rent Balcão in 2017 only validated 1678 evictions, that is, 0, 33 %; not because you don't know that the overwhelming majority, repeat, the overwhelming majority, these redundancies have caused the lack of income payment. None of that. You don't know, you just don't help your narrative. [[PCP protests.]] On the left, the parliamentary left has a deep ideological prejudice against private property. Having a house and keeping it unoccupied will never be to the left such a legitimate prerogative as to decide to rent. Also for all this, having spent more than 40 years, advocates the return to Gonçalvism, to PREC, forcing, by force, the owners of returned homes to conclude lease contracts. The State, the largest owner in Portugal, with thousands of real estate, returnees, abandoned and in advanced state of degradation, the state that does not give the example, the State that does not care about what is its own, is the State that the PS wants now that the owners can be expropriated by force, solving on their account a problem that is theirs. The PS leading the City Hall of Lisbon, owner of 1600 fires returned for housing, is the same PS that does not realize that, in a serious democracy, the State does not appropriate the houses of others to deliver them to those who understand. It starts with its own because it has tens of thousands of buildings to choose from. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Left parties have learned nothing. They did not learn that it was the 50 years of protectionist laws, to which they now want to return, which led to the death of the furnishing market. The chronicle of an announced disaster could perfectly be the title of today's plenary session. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is currently looking at Parliament, because we have started a very important debate here today to amend very important legislation on the right to housing. I would like the people who are accompanying this debate to know that all the parties that have put forward proposals for today — and they are all the parties on the left of this House and also the NAP — agreed that all the proposals should be brought down to the committee to work there. It is a very serious job that will require the participation not only of the Members but of the citizens. It is important for citizens to know that they can address the Assembly of the Republic with their concerns, with their anxieties, with their criticisms so that there will be serious work, deep work here, in order to correct laws that are unfair, that have been made with many hoods and that the author herself has already acknowledged that she has left many people to be abused and that the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilación Urbana) has even had to correct these abuses. It is not the IHRU who will correct these abuses, Mrs Assumption Cristas, who has to correct the abuses is Parliament, it is the national law, it is the rule of law! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some Members have used this debate to raise arguments against each other. The position of the Socialist Party is not that today. Our position is as follows: "Let's discuss this. We will build a stable political majority around this issue so that we can respond to the Portuguese people who have been waiting for it for many years." [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u178	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u179	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Taking into account the words of Mrs Helena Roseta, I believe it is necessary for those who are listening to us and seeing a serious debate, especially focused on solving the problems that need to be resolved. This serious debate goes on to say two or three things. [[BE's protests.]] From that point on, it must be said — and it is also necessary for the honourable Members to do so. Members allow others to speak — which is positive that there are proposals from all, and it is also positive that everyone has put forward proposals, after the CDS has presented its...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u180	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u181	... and fixed, by means of an agenda, on the agenda of May 10, this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Welcome, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome! Mr Minister, by maintaining a serious tone, or by seeking to keep it, without raising the tone of voice, I would like to tell you clearly that on the side of the CDS you will have these proposals for the effort you have appealed to, although perhaps it would recommend less sufficient, because for those who have heard it recently it seems that there is one before and one after you Exa. A little more humility seems to me that I wouldn't hurt him! In any case, Minister, you will count on our proposals, saying that for the CDS there are proposals by you that are positive — you see? We are not sectarians —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u182	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u183	... there are others who, being in the right sense, rest in the sense that the CDS presents, like the reduction of the IRS, are insufficient because it seems to us an excessive deadline and the reduction should be for all contracts and not just for some, and there are others, even in which you, Exa, let me tell you, let me cause a social alarm, perhaps unnecessary, but that exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u185	The owners are afraid of what's going to happen, they are! And I am not saying that, Minister, your Secretary of State felt the need to clarify today in this debate that the owners do not see as enemies. It's just that, Minister, sometimes you don't notice. And I do not speak of the Secretary of State or of the Minister, but of the majority that supports it and that the Minister has so much praised. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And speaking of the majority that supports it, I wanted to say to Mrs Helena Roseta that no one has the monopoly of virtue, no one has the monopoly of reason and surely we will be here for this serious and serene debate. But there is one thing I want to say to the honourable Member and the Socialist Party: if we are going to do this debate on the basis of some sort of adjustment, we will be here to lend ours. Furthermore, it was the CDS which, in a legislative agenda, gave rise to a debate for one afternoon to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u187	But, Mrs. Helena Roseta, you don't get no answer and we've already adjusted a few continuities here. I would like you to speak about what you have done and, above all, about what you have not done to combat these abuses years ago as a councilman in the City Hall of Lisbon in the area of housing... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u188	... and I would also like to know whether to support what the then President of the Lisbon Chamber António Costa did, extinguishing EPUL (PUB) and all kinds of housing support measures. That would be important, but, Mrs. Member, ahead of time, because the Portuguese deserve more. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u189	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD enters this debate with the serenity and seriousness it deserves. That is why we are presenting nine proposals on this subject today. They are decisive proposals that defend people, defend the Portuguese, whether they are tenants or the Portuguese are lords. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u191	We are not against the government's proposals, nor are we against the proposals that come for good, but we have seen many proposals that concern us. As I said, the PSD proposals will give rise to the prospect of defending Portuguese. It is from this perspective that we will be here for a debate that was already scheduled precisely for the next day 10, but that is what you are. Members of the House wanted to run the race and run on each other to put forward proposals in a hurry without corresponding to what this debate deserves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u192	It is now time to speak for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave two comments and then what I think is most important. Mr Nuno Magalhães, it is clear that the Secretary of State could only say what is true and what is behind these same proposals, that is, we do not at any time see the landlords as enemies. Now, what I would like to see was an interview given by you that the title was We do not see the lodgers as enemies, and that will be extraordinarily difficult, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u194	It's coming! Both of us at a press conference!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u195	The second comment I cannot fail to make has to do with the intervention of the PSD, because the difference between the first half of the intervention of V. Exa, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, and the second is brutal. The first is clearly much more « passive », the second much more « laughs », eventually trying to complete its bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u196	It's exactly the opposite! You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u197	What is also true is that the first part of your intervention took much longer than the second, and the honourable Member will know why. Open... There are five issues that are absolutely necessary and are indeed the heart of the proposals we have brought to this House. The first is that it is essential to create conditions so that the 26 000 families living under angry conditions no longer live under the same conditions and that this happens in the short term, and that the short term, in a dimension of a problem like this, is several years to come there. We will do everything we can to honour the Prime Minister's commitment to commemorate the 50th anniversary of April without these same families no longer live in these conditions and have a house compatible with their wishes. Secondly, we must increase the lease market and, when we say that we must increase the lease market, with 98% of the houses that exist in private Portugal, it is clear that we must address ourselves to the owners of these same houses. So we want to challenge everyone who has them to come to the lease market. The third question, absolutely fundamental, has to do with a new problem, not in the sense of one or two months, but with more than two or three years. We need to create a new affordable lease market. In fact, housing policy cannot only be focused on, although many in those who live in angry situations, we must even seek to create an offer for those who are in market failure who, not being deprived of their families, are not finding the house they are looking for. Fourthly, I believe this when I say that leases are, by definition, long-term contracts, so we obviously have to create conditions — and here it is through tax amendments — for contracts to last longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u198	Public policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u199	And, as Mr Coelho said, and very well, we have to worry about the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable. It can't be any other way! We cannot allow those over 65, who have lived in a house for more than 25 years, who have serious physical disability problems to be treated like any other tenants. It cannot be and, under no circumstances, those who say so are not strict. Do we think it should be the gentlemen who provide social assistance? Don't! For a significant part of the contracts prior to 1990, we will finally regulate the income allowance that many have talked about, but which they have not done. We therefore believe that our proposals are balanced and, because we believe that, we are very confident in the work that this Parliament will do. Of course we wish for a happy and fruitful work for this Parliament, which has objectively behind its back, behind VV. For example, a huge responsibility for which the Government wanted to participate very actively in this discussion, but objectively the final decision is VV. Ex. and we believe that she will be weighed down and will meet these concerns. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u200	To close the debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we deal with rental issues, we try to rent housing, but we also try to rent non-residential ones. It is fair that reference should be made here to the impact of this law, the law of evictions, in many micro and small businesses, which has already led many to the closure and which will make life difficult for many others if nothing is done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u202	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u203	It will make life difficult for many by increasing incomes, but it can also lead to increased closures and job destruction. The apprehension in the sector is quite enough and there are many companies that are no longer making a set of investments in their establishment, because they do not know what tomorrow will be like, because the eminence of eviction and expulsion is always present, which creates great instability in such a fundamental economic activity to give life to our neighborhoods and cities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u205	If these matters are important, the issue of housing also assumes a great centrality. The first record we would like to make on this matter is that we were hoping that the person responsible and the face of this law would make an intervention here and once again explain his motivations, but he did not. Mrs Assumption Cristas referred to silence and did not defend her motherhood in relation to all this matter which caused so many misfortunes to thousands and thousands of families. [[PCP applause.]] When we talk about housing, we don't talk about numbers, we talk about people, people, families, concrete lives that, at one time or another, have been in enormous instability and without alternative. Let the families who have already been cleared say so, and they have not been disposed of for non-compliance. In fact, Mr President, even the situations of non-compliance are due to the great attack on workers due to unemployment, as a result of the reduction of wages. Thousands and thousands of families have been unable to assume their responsibilities. We are also talking about families and people who fulfill their responsibilities, who have always paid the rents, including high values, who have invested in a housing that is not theirs, which is a landlord. And now what is the answer to these families? The door to the street! Instead of defending their homes, this is the answer that is being given to many and many families. [[PCP applause.]] in this debate, there is an endless difference. For the PSD and CDS, what matters is the market—again, the market and its dynamisation, which led to the clearance of families and the closure of trade stores. [[PSD protests.]] For the PCP, what matters is to guarantee the right to housing and this constitutional principle is being denied to thousands and thousands of families in our country. [[PCP applause.]] It was precisely for this purpose that we held this debate. To make it clear, the initiative we are discussing today has not been presented in a hurry, it has been delivered in February.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u206	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u207	In fact, when we discussed in 2016 a set of aspects regarding lease, it was also at the initiative of the CFP. So we are not talking about haste, we are talking about an urgent situation to stop the evictions, to defend the right to housing, so that these people who are watching this debate see their right to protected housing and so that the Portuguese are not put on the street. This is indeed a constitutional and fundamental right which is being discussed here and which we want to defend and preserve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the next item on the agenda, for which no time for debate is allocated: 2. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018, which will be voted on today. Before we enter the voting period, Mr Duarte Pacheco will take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1560 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers ( BE ), 1563 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School Father Benjamim Salgado, in the Vila de Joane ( PSD ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1564 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of aestheticist ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1565 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the correct application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1566 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the restoration works of the Monastery of Santa Maria de Semide ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission. I report that, with regard to draft resolution No 1560/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a) Mr President, through an office, admitted this legislative initiative because he considered it to be in accordance with the laws and regulations. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 212 presences, to which are added 3 — those of the Members. Mr Catarina Martins and Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, from BE, and Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD — making 215 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u211	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u212	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u213	Mr President, it is to assist the Bureau in counting Members and Members of the Left Block. Despite the electronic framework to record 16 members of the Left Block and only two Members have given the indication that they have not been able to register electronically, which totals 18 Members, as it is possible to see, our bench is full and we are 19 Members. in this sense, there will be a Member of the Left Block who, for any reason, has not registered or has not been registered. It may have been due to a computer problem. I leave this information so that the Bureau can take it into account when checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u214	It seems that the same question is being put on the CDS bench because there was a Member who was not able to sign up. I think it will be Mr Telmo Correia, but then see-CL in the final record. That being the case, we recorded the presence of five others. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u215	Mr President, I call again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u217	Mr President, it is to correct the information I gave to the Bureau. There is one Member who, for reasons of force majeure, is not present, and we are, after all, 18 Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u218	It is clear, therefore, that there are no more five, but yes, four others. Members who have not been able to register, which totals 216 Members. Member States. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 529 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulations on the occasion of the Panmunjom Declaration for the Peace, Prosperity and Unification of the Korean Peninsula, presented by the CFP, which will be read by Mrs Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u219	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The holding last 27 April in Panmunjom of the summit between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea ( DPRK ) and the Republic of Korea, with delegations headed by the President of the DPRK State Affairs Committee, Kim Jong-un, and the President of the Republic of Korea, Moon Jae-in, constitutes a significant development in the situation of the Korean Peninsula and an event of greater international importance. The Panmunjom Declaration represents a new and important step that closes objectives of great relevance on the way to achieving the peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula, opening up ‘a new era of peace’, as stated in the above Declaration, in respect of the principles of national sovereignty and independence, of the right of the Korean people to decide their own destinations, free from interference, pressures and external threats. The definition of concrete measures and objectives and the commitment to the implementation of previous agreements meet, among other important aspects, the construction of permanent dialogue links between Koreans; the resolution of humanitarian problems resulting from the division of the Peninsula, which has remained for 65 years; the end of hostile acts and the establishment of peace zones; the denuclearization and phased disarmament. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the conduct of the Panmunjom Summit between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, which constitutes an important step towards opening up a path to peace and peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula in respect of the principles of national sovereignty and independence; and urges the Portuguese Government to repudiate acts of interference, pressure and threat that disregard the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to support measures that, in respect of the sovereignty of the Korean people, contribute to peace and peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u220	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to vote No 531/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the positive development of the situation on the Korean Peninsula, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Mr. Secretary-General Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u221	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The summit between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, which took place on 27 April, culminating in the signing of the Panmunjom Declaration, is the result of an unprecedented convergence of wills dictated by a common objective — the stabilization of the Korean Peninsula. The diplomatic efforts pursued in this direction introduce a fluidity marked by the dialogue between the two Koreas, until a few months ago crystallized in rhetorical hostility and in the conduct of successive nuclear tests. The stabilization of the Korean Peninsula will, of course, not be exhausted in the holding of the summit between the two Koreas, as well as the announcement of the suspension of nuclear and ballistic tests. Only the dismantling of arms and the creation of confidence and security measures in the region can lead to lasting stability. The opening up of the North Korean regime to the mediation efforts of the US and Chinese authorities in favour of a negotiated solution to the conflict creates a favourable and promising climate for a future understanding between the parties. Although the negotiations between the two Koreas are premature, the Assembly of the Republic is associated with the words of hope and optimism of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy for diplomatic efforts to achieve a negotiated solution for peace on the Korean Peninsula. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u222	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed with vote No 530/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the World Press Freedom Day presented by the CFP, which will be read by the Secretary-General Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u223	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is as follows: « In 1993 it was proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on May 3 as World Press Freedom Day, following the Windhoek Declaration, a document that, adopted at a seminar of journalists organized by UNESCO, in Namibia, in 1991, ‘makes an appeal for free, independent and pluralist media throughout the world, characterizing the free press as essential for democracy and as a fundamental human right’. To mark this day is to pay tribute to the many journalists killed in the exercise of their profession and to the thousands who, in the context of various afflictions in the sector, continue to carry out their task of informing. In Portugal, press freedom was a conquest of 25 April, with a translation into the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines this right and the assumptions for its fulfilment, including the responsibility of the State. Currently, the reality of the social communication sector in Portugal is marked by the precariousness of many journalists, by low wages, deregulation of working hours and the imposition of working rhythms incompatible with the necessary confirmation of information that guarantee the rigor of the news. The concentration of media ownership and control by the multinationals of the media and of digital information is deepened. This path poses a grave threat to pluralism, freedom of the press, expression and information. The defense of freedom of the press goes through the fulfilment of constitutional principles and the valorization of journalists. Recognizing the freedom of the press as a fundamental right and a pillar of democracy, firmly rejecting censorship, repression and other constraints to its exercise, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, marks the World Press Freedom Day, greeting all journalists and media professionals. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1549 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for forest diversification ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u226	Mr André Pinotes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u227	Mr President, it is a technical matter, but it helps to carry out the work: this whole wing was left without access to computers. [[They're all! All of them!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u228	on the side of the PSD and CDS I can still see that there are still some, but it is difficult to follow up the votes without having access to computers. I'm sorry, but it's just to try and see if you can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u229	Yes, Mr President, if I were a computer technician, I would give you an eloquent or conclusive answer, at least, but, as is not the case, I can only ask the honourable Members. Members with the utmost understanding for the situation and with a strong voice I ask the services that can ensure that, if possible, the normal situation is restored. Until then, I ask the gentlemen. Members who follow the Bureau's instructions with as much attention as possible. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, despite this difficulty, we will be able to proceed normally with the vote. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1011 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the date of 15 June as the Huntington National Day of Disease and recommends that the Government approve measures to reduce the impact of this disease and to support its patients ( PSD ). The CDS requested the breakdown of point 1, point 2.1. and then the vote on the remaining points. So let us start by voting on point 1. [[The vote was taken, with votes in favour of the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on point 2.1. draft resolution No 1011 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the NAP, votes against the BE and the PCP and abstentions from the PS, the CDS and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the remaining points of draft resolution No 1011 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PS and the CFP were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1551 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons qualified to access the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis may carry out three pregnancy attempts under the National Health Service ( BE ). There is an application for breakdown by the CDS for points 1 and 2 which, if I understand it, will be voted together, and then points 3 and 4, which will also be voted together. Let us then vote on points 1 and 2. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall now vote on points 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 1551 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to draft resolution No 1552 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen health accessibility to Huntington ( PCP ) patients, the CDS has also requested the breakdown of point 2, which we will begin to vote on. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a new legal regime for electronic money payment services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2366. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u230	Mr President, to indicate the presentation of a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u231	Of course, Mr. Deputies. It should be noted that this bill — even if it is a legislative authorization — has material content — lower than 5. the Commission. With regard to Bill No 120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, there is a request, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 45 days that we shall vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill then goes down to 1. the Commission in accordance with the above-mentioned terms. We now move on to Bill No. 856 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2004 of 18 August, as amended by Law No 55 -A / 2010 of 31 December 2010, which regulates the organisation and operation of the National Data Protection Commission ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CFP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS, and abstentions against BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u232	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u233	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, with regard to Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits, has entered a request submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, without a vote, for a period of 45 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1481 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mechanism for the allocation of a provisional blood price pension ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the BE and the NAP and the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 781 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, recognizing the possibility of mutual resignation to legal heir to the Convention ( PS ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes, votes against members of PS Constance Urbano de Sousa and Bacelar de Vasconcelos and abstentions from PSD, PAN, PS Gabriela Canavilhas and Ricardo Bexiga and CDS-PP Deputies Antonio Carlos Monteiro, João Rebelo, Pedro Mota Soares and Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u235	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u236	Mr President, to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1435 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the legal regime of the taxi sector in order to contribute to the modernisation of this transport ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1553 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Modernisation of the taxi sector ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1556/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends a set of support and promotion measures for the taxi sector ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u239	Mr President, it is to indicate that, on the last three votes, the Left Block will present a written vote statement and also to give the public information that the following initiative will be voted on, the draft resolution, had the text replaced by the work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u240	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. The following initiative is draft resolution No 724 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector ( BE ), the text of which has been replaced by the Commission, as just announced. Let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the joint vote on the following requests: Submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 45 days, of Bill No 770 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revises the revision of the urban lease law approved by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August ( CFP ) ; Submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 45 days of the projects of lein. 847 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat precariousness in housing leases ( introduce amendments to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, and to the new urban lease regime ) ( BE ), 848 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 of 25 November 1966, to improve the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( the seventy-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November) ( BE ), 849 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the municipalities adequate financing mechanisms for promoting housing policies ( makes the seventh amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September) ( BE) and 850 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes counter-ordinary punishment for harassment in the lease ( BE ) ; Submitted by the Greens, applying for discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 45 days, of Bill No 852 / XIII — Revoking Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August (Revision of the Urban Rent Legal Regime) (The Greens) ; Submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote for a period of 15 days of Bill No 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the suspension of deadlines for the new Urban Rent Scheme and for lay-off procedures ( BE); Submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 45 days, of draft resolution No 1555 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulates the procedures of the National Rent Balcony (NAP); Submitted by the PS, requesting discharge from the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting, for a period of 45 days, of the proposals of lein. 127 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special taxation scheme providing for the exemption from taxation of property income arising from renting or under-renderment under the Accessible Rent Programme, 128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs differentiated autonomous rates of IRS for residential income in long-term housing leases and 129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to correct imbalance situations in the position of tenants and landlords, to strengthen the security and stability of urban leases and to protect tenants in a particularly fragile situation. Let's vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All the initiatives mentioned in the requirements fall to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will vote on the request submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for a period of 15 days, of Bill No 854 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish an extraordinary and transitional protection regime for elderly or disabled persons who have been leased and resided on the same site for more than 15 years ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u242	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u243	Mr President, I believe that there would also be a request on Bill No 853 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE) for 15 days and not 45 days, which has not been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u244	Mr President, may I say something about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u245	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u246	Mr President, this request has already been voted on in the first set of requests, it is at the end of page 9 of the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u247	Mr. João Oliveira explains, and well, according to the script, this requirement was included in the whole vote. The only thing that needs to be needed, so that there is no doubt, is that the Commission's discharge period is 15 days. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for 2. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1185/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of a working group for the lifting of the situation in which national archives are located, with a view to their reform and safeguarding Portuguese memory and history ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1496 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the immediate release of funds for the project of the pediatric unit of Hospital S. João ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1504 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government grant immediate authorization for the opening of the public invitation to tender for the construction of the new pediatric centre of the Hospital de S. João, Porto, as well as the release of the total amount necessary for this purpose, and that it comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 23 / 2018, which recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to protect and support the minor patients with oncology disease and their caregivers ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1509 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately unlock the funds necessary for the construction of the new pediatric wing of the Hospital Center of S. João, in the Port, and comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 26 / 2018 of 23 January, which recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1484/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human and material resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1497/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the response of the National Institute of Medical Emergency through the recruitment of professionals in need ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us move on to draft resolution No 1343 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — By preserving and valuing the Faro Commercial Port ( PCP ). The PSD called for a split vote and we shall therefore vote on points 1 and 2 and then on points 3 and 4. Let us vote on points 1 and 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on points 3 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1345 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — For the full use of Port of Port of Commerce ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1347 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve, integrating all commercial, fishing and recreational ports of the Algarve region ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] It is true to say that variable geometry gives for everything! Open... [[Laughing.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1491 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve and the requalification and valuation of the commercial ports of Portimão and Faro ( BE ). At the request of the CFP, we will vote, autonomously, firstly, point 1 of the draft resolution and then the remaining points. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, votes against the CFP and abstentions against the PS, the CSD-PP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on points 2 to 5. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1494 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as part of its conversion, decide not to extinguish the Faro Commercial Port and carry out as quickly as possible the improvement works planned for the Port of Portimão ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1495 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The dynamisation of the ports of Algarve and the strategy for the dynamisation of maritime transport ( PS ). At the request of the CFP, we will break down points 1 and 3, which will be voted together, and then we will vote point 2. Let us then vote on points 1 and 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE and the PCP and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] I believe that there are no more votes to be taken in this motion for a resolution. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1528 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the investments envisaged in the requalification, enhancement and development of the potential of Portimão and Faro ports and associated activities ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on Bill No 565 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rights of end-of-life sick persons ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u248	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u249	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u250	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u252	Mr President, I would also like to announce that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote, since, in fact, this bill only provides for certain rights that already exist in legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u253	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the projects of lein. 658 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation of audits to systems with possible impacts on the quality of the outdoor air, in particular the research of the presence of legionellasp colonies. ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 102 / 2010 of 23 September) ( BE), 659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Re-establishs the mandatory audits of indoor air quality and research of legionellasp colonies. ( Fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August) ( BE), 676 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishes the reintroduction of the requirement to periodically monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in service buildings with air conditioning systems ( PAN), 680 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the conditions for the establishment of the primary prevention and control programme for Legionella ( PCP ) and 682 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August, with a view to ensuring the regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system including verification of the existence of legionella colonies ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u254	This is what legionella forbids! Do you now vote against? Oh, my God! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u255	We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 445 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies adopted by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December adopting restrictive measures in the marketing of financial products and instruments by credit institutions and financial corporations ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 448 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, preventing the allocation of incentives for marketing to the retail of specific products or financial instruments and reinforcing the intervention of the Banco de Portugal in this area ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall also proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 65 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 1034, the European Parliament and the Council, and Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 593. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and PS and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u256	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u257	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u258	Mr President, I would just like to mention the presentation of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u259	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, it is important to vote now for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will report to us. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Family Court and Minors of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 4849 / 18.0T8LSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Members Sandra Cunha ( BE) and Pedro Filipe Soares ( BE ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now begin the votes resulting from the re-evaluation, which has recently taken place in the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 196 / XIII, which are set out in a supplementary script. Some amendments have been tabled, in particular, and must therefore be voted on first. The indication I have...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u262	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u263	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u264	Mr President, it is to declare that I have a particular interest in matters which will be the target of the forthcoming votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You also have the floor to Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u266	Mr President, with regard to this vote, a request was made for it to be nominal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u267	Madam Member, this matter will be put in place and will be treated properly at the time of the overall final vote, whether it will take place or whether the confirmation vote will take place, or not, of the diploma. At the right time, we will see that. Mr Ulisses Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u268	Mr President, I just want to inform the Bureau that I will not participate in the following votes under Article 8 ( 3 ). that of the Statute of Members, having already sent their information to the services. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to maintain conditions so that we can all clarify this matter, which is what I will seek to do next. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two rules in the Statute of the Members that have to do with this, and I therefore ask your attention and understanding to what I am going to say. One of the rules, which was now invoked by Mr Ulisses Pereira, i.e. Article 8 (3). the, states that « The invocation of reason of conscience, duly substantiated, by Member present at the meeting is considered as a justification for not participating in the vote ». There is another rule which determines that, and I quote, "Deputies presenting draft law or intervening in any parliamentary work(...) shall first declare the existence of particular interest, where appropriate, in the matter concerned. Do not keep on seeking. ” Attention to the following: the particular interest, once mentioned, as Mr Lima Costa has done, is recorded and does not limit the right to vote on the matter. Only the invocation of conscience, duly based in the plenary, during the course of the work, is considered as justification for not participating in the vote. Therefore, with regard to Mr Ulisses Pereira, the Bureau's appeal is as follows: or it is, indeed, the existence of a particular interest and the honourable Member will thus declare it as well, it is recorded but is not prevented from voting, or if it is a problem of conscience, as mentioned above, it will have to make some oral basis here to be present, not to participate in the vote. I would ask the honourable Member, in his opinion, to assume whether we are in the field of invocation of a reason for conscience or whether we are in the field of possible invocation of the existence of particular interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u270	Mr President, I think I was clear when I referred to Article 8 ( 3 ). the Statute of the Deputies. I understand that being justifying reasons for our own conscience is, of course, a difficult exercise, but I will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u271	It depends on consciousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u272	I have already done this through a statement that I have sent to the DAPLEN services, with a conjugation of a number of factors that have to do with personal issues, which have to do with political issues and which have to do with questions of order of vote discipline. So it was a set of these questions. If there is any other understanding of the House, of course I will withdraw and not vote. [[Right now, there was a burb in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not all to start discussing this with each other. This is the following: there is a general rule that prevents Members from having to participate in the vote. This is the general rule. Not participating in the votes knows this only exception. It happens that the invocation of reason of conscience, determines the law, must be duly substantiated. For what? In order to be understood, not to unionize the conscience of a Member, but to be transparent the grounds for such an invocation so as not to participate in a vote. The honourable Member has clarified that he will issue that basis for registration. What is said here is that the basis must be the Member present at the meeting at which the matter arises. He called for personal reasons. Obviously, the Bureau — I would never do so — does not protect the conscience of any Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u274	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u275	Does the honourable Member believe that, by limiting himself to a general clause of a personal nature, his question of conscience is duly substantiated? If I repeat, I will not raise any more questions, but let this be taken over.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u276	Mr. President, I repeat that for the third time. Of course, I would not like to go into the details of the issues that call for my conscience, but, if necessary, I will also do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u277	Mr President, I shall leave this to your discretion. I would ask you to lay down the reasons for the law on the basis of the law. I want, now, to appeal to all the other gentlemen. Members who may have some consideration on possible conflicts of interest to declare it at the moment, of course, as I have said, that this is not inhibiting the duty to participate in the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u278	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u279	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u280	Mr President, it is to declare that I have a particular interest in the following votes, which, of course, will not affect my sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u281	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u282	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u283	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u284	Mr President, it is also to declare particular interest in the following votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u285	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u286	Mr President, I would also like the floor to convey to the Bureau that, although I do not have a direct interest in this matter, I am a member of the Order of Engineers, and I think that it is important for transparency to mention this in this session.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u287	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u288	Mr President, I would also like to say that I have a particular interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u289	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u290	Mr President, I would like to take the floor, as in other times when the matter was discussed in this Chamber, to declare that I have a particular interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u292	Mr President, I would also like to speak to inform you that I have a particular interest in this matter, but I will take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u293	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u294	Mr President, I would also like to speak for the same purpose: I have a particular interest in these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u295	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u297	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u298	Mr President, although I have some doubts, as I have close relatives interested, I would also like to say that I have a particular interest in this matter. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u299	Mrs. Members, who holds the criterion is the Member who invokes it. [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u300	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we register any conflicts of interest, we are in a position to move forward, i.e. to vote. [[Pause.]] The indication of the Bureau — and I ask the authors to confirm this — is that there are two proposals, both of which replace Article 25 ( 7 ). the Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree, submitted by the NAP and the PCP, respectively. These proposals should therefore be voted on together for the same purpose. Let us then vote for them. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, since the voting process will be a thing of the past. [[Pause.]] [[Subject to vote, subject to vote, were adopted, with vote in favour of the PSD, of the PCP, of Os Verdes, of the PAN and of 25 PS (Carlos César, Carlos Pereira, Fernando Rocha Andrade, Filipine Neto Brandão, Hortense Martins, Hugo Carvalho Martins, Hugo Carvalhoos, Hugo Serrón, Ivan Gonçólves, Joaquil, Joaquilo Raposo, Joaquim Raposo, João Castro, João Galambi, João Gouvea Gouvea, João Gouves Gouvea, João Gouves Gouvea, João Gouvea, João Ruvedia, João Romeo, João Raven, João Ravenato, João Romeostonestonestonestonestonestones, Mariostonestones, Mariostonestonestonestones of the CD CD (Helexandrestones, victory, Saints, Saints of the CD (Aleastones of Indonesia, Saint (Alestones André, heavens, heavens, Saintstonestonestones, heavens, heavens, heavens, Indonesia, Indonesia, Saintstonestone, Saintstonetonestones, Saintstones André, Indonesia, Indonesia, Saints, Saintstones, Saintstones My My My My My My My My My Myon, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Saints, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, Daniel (A (A (A (A (A (A, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Andréstonestonestonestonestones, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, André, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia, Indonesia,]] [[These are the following: PAN proposal 7 — Civil Engineering licensees referred to in Annex VI to Directive 2005/36/EC, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU of 20 November 2013 with training started in the academic years referred to therein, and who prove that, in the framework of the provisions of Decree-Law No 73/73 of 28 February, they have subscribed, between 1 November 2009 and 1 November 2017, an architectural project which has earned municipal approval, may draw up the projects specifically provided for in that Decree-Law, under the conditions laid down therein and in compliance with the legal regime in force for the activity, and shall, however, be subject to the fulfilment of the duties enshrined in this Act and, where applicable, to its verification before the competent administrative authorities. Proposal for a CFP 7 — Licensing holders in civil engineering referred to in Annex VI to Directive 2005/36/EC, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU of 20 November 2013 with training started in the school years referred to therein, and who demonstrate that, in the framework of the provisions of Decree No 73/73 of 28 February, they have subscribed, between 1 November 2009 and 1 November 2017, to a project of architecture which has deserved municipal approval, they may draw up the projects specifically provided for in that Decree, under the conditions laid down therein and in respect of the legal regime in force for the activity, and shall, however, be subject to the fulfilment of the duties enshrined in this Act and, where applicable, to its proof before the competent administrative authorities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u302	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u303	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work, technically.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u304	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u305	Mr President, I believe that what happened in this vote will be repeated in all others and that the issue would be overcome if Mr President implemented the electronic vote, because it will be all recorded there and it will not be necessary to repeat all the names of all those who abstain, who vote against and vote in favour. It'd be a lot faster, I guess. But it's just a suggestion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u306	It happens, Mr President, that the electronic vote is the result, but it does not identify who did the vote. Therefore, as there is a manifest predisposition in this regard, unless there is a requirement to use the electronic vote, which the Bureau would put to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u307	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u308	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u309	Mr President, it would certainly be a solution that is not entirely consistent with the literality of any rule but by trying to save time in the voting process, if there are no amendments to the vote by Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be done precisely as Mr Matos Correia has indicated. [[But there is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u310	If there is, if you are. Members would identify the amendment, just make that reference, on the basis of the vote we have just done, and save some time. But this is not, of course, strictly planned. I'm just leaving the suggestion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u311	Mr President, I was thinking precisely that there might be very narrow or voting deviations, but then just ask, even without the use of the electronic register, if there was someone who proceeded to a different vote. I therefore ask for your understanding, but I believe that the next vote will be faster. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 8 to Article 25. the Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with a little patience, also calling for the cooperation of the honourable Members. Secretaries, I'm going to ask the following: at the CDS bench, did anyone make a different vote from the first vote? If so, I would ask you to declare it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u312	Mr President, I abstained in the previous vote and voted against this vote. And I think you guys are. Mr Vania Dias da Silva and Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u313	Mr. President, myself and the honourable Members. Members Hélder Amaral, Pedro Mota Soares and Ilda Araújo New that we had voted in favour, let us abstain now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u314	Mr President, I voted in favour of the previous vote and now voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u315	With regard to the parliamentary seats of PSD, PS, PCP, BE and Greens, and the NAP, there were no changes in votes. [[Subject to vote, it was approved, subject to vote, subject to vote, and subject to vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the Os Verdes, the PAN and 25 PS (Carlos César, Carlos Pereira, Fernando Rocha Andrade, Filipine Neto Santo, Hortense Martins, Hugo Carvalho Martins, Hugo Carvalho, Hugo Serrón, Ivan Gonçól, John Ne Verdes, and 25 PAN members of the PDP, and 25 PS (Carlos Cédia, Carlos Pedro Carvalho Carvalho Martin, Hugo Carvalho, Hugo Serrón, Ivano Serrón, Pedro Serrón, Pedro Pedro Serrón, Juan Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Carlos Antonio Antonio Antonio, Carlos Antonio, João Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Alves, Antonio, Antonio Alves, Antonio Alves, Antonio Alvesus, Antonio Alves, Antonio Alves, Antonio Alves, Antonio Alves, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Antonio, Pedro Antonio, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedrostototototototototototototototototototo, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly quickly quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly, Pedro quickly quickly quickly,]] [[It is as follows: 8 — The holders of civil engineering licences referred to in the previous paragraph shall register with the Institute of Public Markets for Real Estate and Construction, I.P., which shall be responsible for issuing securities for the exercise of the activity, proving that they meet the conditions set out in this Act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u316	We shall continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add paragraph 9 ( renumbering ) to Article 25. the Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u317	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u318	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u319	Mr President, I have doubts that this vote should be taken because, in fact, nothing will be voted on. With the approval of the addition of a new paragraph 8, this Article shall become paragraph 9. This is therefore a question of renumbering.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u320	Therefore, paragraph 9 exists in the diploma as paragraph 8, then it will be successful in final writing. We now have the time for the global final vote. I would ask for your special attention again: you have made a request to the Bureau, signed by 24 Members. Members, to ensure that a roll-call vote is taken on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic. It is now up to the Bureau to clarify — and I would ask you to let me speak to the end — that there was no vote for the re-evaluation of the Decree, because, having just voted amendments, in the specialty, to the Decree, we have started a new legislative process, which will be, or not, new to the end, depending on the outcome of the overall final vote. However, the overall final vote itself is already in a new legislative process. In the case of a global final vote, it is no longer subject to the constitutional requirement of a qualified majority, in this case by an absolute majority, for confirmation of the presidential veto. This is a vote within the framework of a new amended initiative and therefore the automatic rule that 1 / 10 of the Members may, at the time of review of the decrees, give rise to a roll-call vote by themselves. This is therefore not an automatic application because we are no longer in the process of voting on the confirmation of the diploma, so it is a common vote. in this sense, what the Rules of Procedure determine is that there may be a roll-call vote in the case of the plenary, as a whole, the request, so as to decide. The Bureau therefore takes the view that this request is routinely convoluted for the request to be put to the vote by the plenary now, in order to pass on to the roll-call vote or not. So what will be put to the vote is the following: in accordance with the request reached in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the explanation now advanced, Mr President. Members who believe that the vote should be taken in the overall final vote, and the vote will be voted on in favour of this issue. Members who understand that this should not be the case will vote against or abstain from it. We shall then proceed to the vote on the request submitted by PS and BE Members for the roll-out of the overall final vote of the new decree, with the amendments made. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP, votes against 14 PSD Members and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and 8 PS Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we are in line with this direction from the Bureau: we have just taken a procedural vote and, therefore, in the matter of a procedural vote, it was our criterion not to be registering the names but only to identify the result. The change to the roll-call vote has been approved and that is what we are going to do next. [[Pause.]] I would ask the services to link the electronic voting system. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u321	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u322	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u323	Mr President, with all due respect, I believe that if the vote is nominal, there is no need to register, because all Members will be questioned about their own way of voting and at that time they will check whether or not they are present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u324	Mrs. Members, I do not invent, I follow the Rules of Procedure. Article 98 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure read as follows:... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to give you an explanation if you're in favour of listening to me. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that they will create the conditions so that we can continue normally. If you want to prolong the work, I'm available. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a relevant time of work, a vote, and I am making an appeal. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I am making an appeal for conditions... [[Laughing.]] [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Yes, sir. I am calling for conditions to be created so that the vote can proceed normally. I have not yet responded to the request made by Mr. João Almeida. Mr João Almeida, Article 98 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure read as follows: « Nominal voting shall be made by call of Members, according to alphabetical order, and the expression of the vote shall also be recorded by electronic means ». It is therefore as soon as we proceed. We can move forward, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Pause.]] at the same time as a Member, to whom he is asked what his sense of vote is raised, must press the button, indicating « yes », « no », or « abstention ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the new Decree of the Assembly of the Republic in a comprehensive final vote. The call was made and the following vote was recorded: PSD Parliamentary Group Adam José Fonseca Silva — In favour Álvaro Manuel Reis Batista — In favour Amadeu Albertino Marques Soares Alberaria — ( Not responded to call) Ana Elisabete Laborda Oliveira — In favour Ana Margarida Balsairo de Sousa Lopes — In favour Ana Sofia Fernandes Bettencourt — In favour Andreia Carina Machado da Silva Neto — In favour Ángela Maria Pinheiro Branquinho Guerra — In favour Antonio André da Silva Topa — In favour Antonio Carlos Sousa Gomes da Silva Peixoto — In favour António Egrajas Leitão Amaro — In favor Antonio Francisco Costa da Silva — In favour Antonio José Lima Costa — In favour Antonio Lima Cardoso Ventura — In favour Antonio Pedro Roque da Visitazione Oliveira — In favour Berta Maria Correia de Almeida de Melo Cabral — In favour Bruno Jorge Viegas Vitorino — (No response to the call). Bruno Manuel Pereira Coimbra — In favor of Carla Maria Gomes Barros — (He did not answer the call). Carlos Alberto Silva Gonçalves — In favor Carlos António Páscoa Gonçalves — In favor Carlos Eduardo Almeida de Abreu Amorim — In favor Carlos Henrique da Costa Neves — In favor Carlos Manuel dos Santos Batista da Silva — In favor Duarte Douarte Nunes Guerreiro Norte — In favor Simon Oliveira de Ribeiro — In favor Duarte Filipe Baptista de Matos Marques — In favor Duarte Rogério Matos Ventura Pacheco — In favor Emídio Guerreiro — In favor Emilia de Fátima Moreira Santos — In favor Feliciano José Barreiras Duarte — (No response to the call). Fernando Fernando Luís de Sousa Luis de Sososoto Machado Machado Sora Machado Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Vales—Please Fernando Mimoso Negro Negro Negro Negro — Please Fernando Fernando Virgíílo Cabralílio Cabral of the Cruz Macedo — Please Figueiredo Jorge Jorge Jorge Alexandra Alexandra Freire Freire Freres Corres Correia — Please Hugo Hugo Alexandre Alexandre Lopes Soares Sores Lopes Soares Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Sorestos Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Valés Sores Sores Sores Sores Sores Valéa Mahas Sores Vales Vales Vales Valies Vales — Please Please Please Mr Val Corres Val Corres Val Corres Val Corres Val Coredo Ne Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro E Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro Negro No Mar Al Monteiro Al Monteiro Mar Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made made by Fereras Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferrs Ferr were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were were only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only only onlyonly Luís Pedro Machado Sampaio de Sousa Pimentel — In favor Manuel Joaquim Barata Frexes — In favor Marco António Ribeiro dos Santos Costa — (He did not answer the call). Margarida Isabel Mano Tavares Simões Lopes Marques de Almeida — Please Maria Clara Gonçalves Marques Mendes — Please Maria das Mercês Gomes Borges da Silva Soares — Please Maria de Fátima Simões Ramos do Vale Ferreira — Please Maria Emília e Sousa Cerqueira — Please Maria Germana de Sousa Rocha — Please Maria Luis Casanova Morgado Dias de Albuquerque — Please Maria Manuela Pereira Tender — Please Maria Teresa da Silva Morais — Please Mauricio Teixeira Marques — Please Miguel Ferreira Morgado — Please Nilza Marília Mouzinho de Sena — Please Nuno Rafael Marona de Carvalho Serra — (No response to the call). Paula Maria Von Hafe Teixeira da Cruz — In favor of Paul Alexandre de Sousa Neves — (He did not answer the call). Paulo César Rios de Oliveira — In favor Paulo Miguel da Silva Santos — In favor Pedro Alexandre Antunes Faustino Pimpão dos Santos — (He did not answer the call). Pedro Augusto Cunha Pinto — In favor Pedro do Ó Barradas de Oliveira Ramos — In favor Pedro Filipe dos Santos Alves — In favor Regina Maria Pinto da Fonseca Ramos Basto — In favor Ricardo Augustus Guerreiro Baptista Leite — In favor Rubina Everlien Berardo — In favor Rui Manuel Ferreira da Silva — In favor Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz — In favor Sandra Cristina de Sequeiros Pereira — In favor Sara Martins Marques dos Santos Madruga da Costa — In favor Sergio Sousa Lopes Freire de Azevedo — In favour Susana Maria de Oliveira Lamas — In favor Teresa de Andrade Leal Coelho — In favour Ulisses Manuel Brandão Pereira — Present, without participating. Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party Alexandre Tiedtke Quintanilla — Against Ana Catarina Veiga dos Santos Mendonça Mendes — (He did not answer the call). Ana Lúcia Silva de Passos — Against Ana Sofia Ferreira Araújo — Abstaining André Alexandre Pinotes Batista — Against Antonio José Santinho Pacheco — Against Antonio Lacerda Sales — Abstaining Antonio Ribeiro Gameiro — (He did not respond to the call). Artur Miguel Claro da Fonseca Mora Coelho — Abstention Ascension Luís Seixas Simões — Contre Carla Alexandra Magalhães de Sousa — Contre Carla Eliana da Costa Tavares — Abstention Carlos Filipe de Andrade Neto Brandão — In favor Carlos João Pereira — In favor Carlos Manuel Martins do Vale César — Contro Catarina Marcelino Rosa da Silva — Contro Diogo Feijóo León Campos Rodrigues — Abstention Editima Santos Marreiros Estrela — Contro Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues — (No response to the call). Elza Maria Henriques Deus Pais — (He did not answer the call). Eurídice Maria de Sousa Pereira Maria de Sousa Pereira — Abstaining Fernando Fernando António Portela Rocha de Andrade — P favor Fernando José of the Santos Santos Anastácio — contra against Fernando Manuel Manuel de Jesus — contra against Francisco José Ferreira de Sousa Pereira — abstention Hugo Alexandro António Portela Rocha de Andrade de Andrade — A abstention Fernando Fernando Fernando Carlos Carvalheiro Portela Roso Santos Rocha — against Fernando Manuel Manuel de Jesus — against Francisco José Ferreira da Rocha — against Hugo Miguel Carvalheiro from the Santos Costas Costas Costas Costas — favour Hugo Fernando Brum de Azevedo Ferro Ferreira Lima — against João Joana Fernanda Fernanda Fernando Ferreira Ferreira Ferreira Lima Ferreira Lima Ferreira Lima Ferreira Limara Lima Ferreira Lima Ferreira Limado Soares — against João João João João João Saldanha Saldanha of Azevedo Soaredo Galamba Galamba — against João Veloso Veloso Velosoo da Silva Silva Silva Torres — favour João Velosoo da Silva Silva Silva Torres — favour João Veloso da Silva Torres — favour João Veloso da Silva Bars — favour João Eduardo Bars — in Joa Barre Barr Bars — favour Joek Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Bars — favour Joam Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Bars — favour Joamo Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Bars — in Joamo Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Barr Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Bars — favour Joa Bar was Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Bar was was was was was was was was was was Joa Bars — favour Joa Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro was was was was was was was was was was was was Joo Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro Baro was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was was Joaquim Moreira Raposo — In favor Jorge Lacão Costa — Contre Jorge Manuel Nogueiro Gomes — Contre José Manuel Vaz Carpinteira — Contre José Miguel Abreu de Figueiredo Medeiros — Contre José Rui Alves Duarte Cruz — Contre Júlio Francisco Miranda Calha — Contre Lara Fernandes Martinho — Contro Lúcia Fernanda Ferreira Araújo Silva — In favor Luís David Trinidad Moreira Testa — In favor Luís Miguel da Graça Nunes — (No response to the call). Luís Miguel de Freitas Marques Carvalho Soares — P favor Luis Miguel Vilhéna de Carvalho Soares — contra Maria Antonio Moreno Areias Areias de Almeida Santos — contra Maria Augusta de Araújo Fontes dos Santos — contra Maria Constanza Urbano de Soosa — contra against Maria Constanza Urbano de Soosa — contra against Maria Maria Constanza Urbano di Arvalho Carvallo Soosa — contra against Maria Constanza Urbano de Santos — against Maria Constanza Urbano de Soosa — against Maria Con Con Constanza Urban of Soosa — against Maria Margarida Ferreira Ferreira Ferreira Margarida Ferreira Marguero Margarida Ferreira Margo Raggio Cegoro Raggio Raggio Cegoro Raggio Regoro Raggio Raggio Raggio Rígoro Rígo Rígoro Réro Réro Rívo III Régoz Réro Réro Réro Péro Péro Péro Réro Péro Péro Péro Péro Péro Péro R R R R R R R entered Periero Péro R entered Periero R entered Periero R entered Periero R entered Periero R entered Periero Ar R entered Periero R entered Pero Ar R entered Periero Pedro R entered Per Periero Pedro R entered Pero Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Rodo Pedroo Pedroo Pedroo Pedroo Aro Aro Pedroo Aro Aro Aro Pedroo Pedroo Pedroo Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Pedroo Aro Pedro sono Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Aro Pedroo Left Block Parliamentary Group Carlos Manuel Godinho Matias — Contre Catarina Soares Martins — Contre Heitor Nuno Patrício de Sousa Castro — Contre Isabel Cristina Rua Pires — Contre Joana Rodrigues Mortágua — Contre João Manuel Duarte Vasconcelos — Contre Jorge Duarte Gonçalves da Costa — Contre Jorge Manuel Costa Campos — Contre Jorge Manuel Torres Falcato Simões — Contre José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro — Contre José Ernesto Figueira Ferraz — Contre José Manuel Marques da Silva Pureza — Contre Luís Valentim Pereira Monteiro — Contre Maria Manuel de Almeida Rolla — (No response). Mariana Rodrigues Mortágua — Against Moses Salvador Coelho Ferreira — Against Pedro Filipe Gomes Soares — Against Pedro Manuel Bastos Rodrigues Soares — Against Sandra Maestro da Cunha — Against. CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Alvaro Anlvaro António Magalhães Ferrro Castello-Branco — Ab Abstention Ana Rita Barreira Duarte Duarte Bessa — Con Con Con Con Con Antonio Carlos Bivar Branco de Penha Monteiro — Con Con Con Con Con against Antonio Filip of Providence Santarém Anacoreta Correeta Correia — Con Con Con Con Con Con Cecília Felgueeira de Meireles de Meireles Graça — A abstention Ilda Ilda Maria Menezes de Araújo De Araújo Novo Novo — Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Contro João Pedro Guilhero Guilhermeintro João Pedro Guimarãães Golhães de Magalhães Perelves Perelves Pereira — Abtention João João Rodrigo Pinho Pinho Pinho Pinho Pinho de Almeãhãhãhă Piinho de Mattamo Bonanza de Mattamo Bonanzas Bonanza de Mattamo Bonanza de Mattamouros Reled by Mattamos Re Rend name Maru Bon named Matta M M M M M Mouseced by Marsec of Marsec of Marsec of Marsc of Marsc of Marsc of Marsc of Marsc of Marsc of Marsc made made made made made made made by Ca Musca Ca Mussca Ca Musca Ca Musca Ca Musca Ca Ca Ca Ca Mus Cor coin from Cor coin — Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con Con contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra contra August August August August August Augusto Goro no no no son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son no no no no no son son sono Goo Goo Goo Goo Goo Goro as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as Vania Carvalho Dias da Silva de Antas de Barros — Abstention. Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party Ana Cristina Cardoso Dias Mesquita — In favor Ángela Manuela de Sousa Moreira — In favor Antonio Filipe Gaião Rodrigues — In favor Arthur Jorge da Silva Machado — In favor Bruno Ramos Dias — In favor Carla Maria da Costa e Cruz — In favor Diana Jorge Martins Ferreira — In favor Francisco José de Almeida Lopes — In favor Jerome Carvalho de Sousa — In favor João Guilherme Ramos Rosa de Oliveira — In favor João Manuel Ildefonso Dias — In favor Miguel Tiago Crispim Rosado — In favor Paula Alexandra Sobosa Guerrairo Santos Barbosa — In favor Paulo Miguel de Barros Pacheco Sea of Sa — In favor Rita Rato Araújo Fonseca — In favor. Parliamentary Group of the Green Party Heloísa Augusta Brito Bay Poland — In favor José Luís Teixeira Ferreira — In favor. People-Animal-Nature Party André Lourenço and Silva — In favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u325	I wonder if there is any Member who has not been asked to vote. [[Pause.]] That is not the case, I would ask the services to present the general result of the vote in the electronic framework. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the result is reached, in a global final vote... [[In the meantime, there was a burb in the room.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but the public expression of each Member's vote has been announced recently, I cannot now assess whether there has been any delay of any Member between the declared will and the manifestation of the gesture. Fortunately, the result achieved does not change the outcome of the vote and therefore this issue is irrelevant as to its meaning. The result of the electronic vote indicates that, in the overall final vote, they voted in favour of the new Decree, with the amendments introduced in the meantime, 120 Members. Members, they voted against 68 Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, 23 were absent. Ladies and gentlemen. [[A discrepancy was found between the result of the electronic vote and the result of the roll-call vote and taking into account the real will expressed during the roll-call vote, the new Decree was approved, in a comprehensive final vote, with the amendments introduced in the meantime, with 124 votes in favour (80 PS, 25 PS, 1 CDS-PP, 15 PCP, 2 Os Verdes and 1 PAN) with 69 votes against (43 PS, 18 BE and 8 CDS-PP) and 20 abstentions (12 PS and 8 CDS-PP)]] in these conditions, in a comprehensive final vote, the new Decree was adopted, with the amendments introduced in the meantime, and will follow the normal procedures of any other diploma approved in a comprehensive final vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, I now ask your understanding for the following: in draft resolution No 1495 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — By the dynamisation of the ports of Algarve and the strategy for the dynamisation of maritime transport submitted by the PS, which was recently put to the vote, the breakdown of points 1 and 3 had been requested, as well as of point 2. It happens, and not even the proposer will have noticed, that there was still a point 4 which has not been put to the vote and therefore cannot be left to be. So in order to complement the vote on this draft resolution we shall proceed to the vote on point 4. The gentlemen. Are you guys aware of what we're going to vote for?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u326	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u327	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u328	Mr President, we asked you to announce again what we are going to vote on. I think it is draft resolution No 1495 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u329	Yes, it is point 4 of that draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u331	There's no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u332	There are doubts, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u333	Mr. João Oliveira, did you ask for time or asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u334	I asked for time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u335	In the meantime, there are requests for a word for explanations of vote. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u336	Mr President, with regard to the vote on the new Decree, I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u337	For the same purpose, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u338	Mr President, it is not about the vote that just took place, but with a previous vote on draft resolution No 1481 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD, to say that both me and Mr Miranda Calha will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u339	It's a little short-sighted, sir. Having no further requests for speech for this purpose, I ask Mr João Oliveira whether he is already in a position to vote on point 4 of draft resolution No 1495/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u340	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u341	We shall then proceed to the vote on point 4 of draft resolution No 1495/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the Greens and the abstention of the PSD, the CFP and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1495/ XIII ( 3 ) is thus supplemented. ( a). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce the agenda for the next session...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u342	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u343	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u344	Mr President has classified my previous speech as an early one, but I mean that I was not clear as to which votes the explanations of vote were concerned. And when Mr President said: 'There will now be a set of statements...'...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u345	Sir, it's not for me! It's because, later, someone will protest for the conduct of the Bureau's work. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u346	Mr President, you will excuse me, but I am still exercising a right during this session! You'll excuse me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-04.u347	Your point shall be recorded, Mr President. It is my duty to announce that next Wednesday, 9th, the agenda will include a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a problem about confirming the agenda for this sitting. It is not on the agenda which has been distributed, but I would like to point out that a debate on Europe will take place following the 15-year debate in the Conference of Leaders as a result of the 15-year debate. Is there any question about this? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no doubt, our work for today is finally completed. I appreciate your cooperation. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 44 minutes.]]
