ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. There's no record to announce, so we're going to get on the agenda. The first point is a debate requested by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation ( COFMA ) on the evaluation of public and external debt. To open the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of this legislature, the Government has defined as the main objective of its policy to ensure a sustainable economic growth pattern, inclusive and job-generating, in a framework of responsible consolidation of public accounts. The Portuguese economy grew in 2017 at the highest rate of this century, investment returned to pre-crisis levels, unemployment continued to decline and, since the beginning of the legislature, 321 000 jobs were created. at the level of public finances, the current government reduced the deficit to historical minimums and started a sustained process of reducing the public debt ratio. The cost of financing public debt is falling and, with it, the financing costs of Portuguese businesses and families. The Portuguese debt is now seen as a secure investment by investors and financial rating agencies, because it is sustainable. But for that to happen, there is a need for budgetary responsibility. Many ask for stable policies, long-term policies, policies that go beyond each legislature. Indeed, the responsible budgetary policy we have followed must certainly be one of these policies, and the reduction of public debt is one of the national objectives that remains in the forthcoming legislatures. A policy to reduce public debt serves to ensure favourable financing conditions for families and businesses, to protect our economy from external shocks and to prepare a better future for generations to come. We cannot spend every euro available. The Government has ensured a growth-friendly consolidation policy and it is this balanced solution that we will continue to pursue, a solution that ensures debt reduction and, at the same time, maintains a quality commitment to the services provided by the public sector to the Portuguese. Yes, it was and it's possible. We want the taxes paid by Portuguese taxpayers to be increasingly invested in quality health services provided by the National Health Service ( SNS ) and in a public school for all. We want to continue to reduce, responsibly, the debt interest invoice paid by the Portuguese Republic, as well as by families and businesses. Permanent expenditure commitments cannot be established without sustainable revenue. It's about elementary sense. Since the current government took possession, we have saved EUR 1400 million in interest of public debt. The advance payments to the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) saved more than EUR 850 million in interest and 83 % of the IMF loan is already paid. Therefore, we will continue to optimize debt management through available instruments and it is realistic to think about the possibility of new early payments to the IMF. Portugal has managed prudent public debt management and we well know that prudence is a virtue, especially when decisions are made on an uncertain future. This is the correct strategy to ensure the sustainability of public debt and economic growth. Good debt management — recognised by international institutions, investors and financial rating agencies — points to maintaining the average maturity and adequate liquidity cushion, which are fundamental to dealing with episodes of turbulence in financial markets, ensuring investor confidence. Standard & Poor ’ s and Fitch have already raised the sovereign debt rating for investment grade. The Standard & Poor ’ s, recently, has even improved the perspective of Portuguese debt. As I have said, we have a high expectation that Portuguese debt may shortly deserve the level of investment rating by all major financial rating agencies. The renewed confidence in the Portuguese economy has opened up new markets, diversified the investor base and reduced the financing costs of the State, in a chain effect transmitted to banks, businesses and families. The cost of financing the debt issued in 2018 was at a historical minimum of 1, 9 %, which will support the maintenance of the downturn in the cost of financing the Portuguese public debt. The public debt ratio will continue to decline sustainably. The Government reiterates its commitment to comply with the value included in the State Budget for 2018. The Portuguese State has already covered virtually all the financing needs planned for 2018 and we will start next year with about 50 % of the funding needs already provided for 2019. Portugal is today an economy with a healthy and sustainable economic situation, but it is also clear that the external environment is increasingly challenging. The departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union and the emergence of populist movements and protectionist policies are risks that we cannot ignore. The answer is to maintain a sound budgetary policy and pursue a path that will enable us to respond to the impact of these risks on the economies and on the financing conditions. The Government therefore assumes the maintenance of the current policy of reducing public debt and budgetary consolidation as an investment in the future of Portuguese. This will be clear in the State Budget that we will deliver to this House next Monday. A budget for all Portuguese, a prudent management of public debt, based on structural budgetary consolidation. More than a commitment to those who finance us is a commitment to the future of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u3	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u4	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It is an essential budget for businesses and families to have favourable financing conditions, it is critical to ensure investment and innovation, to stimulate employment and, therefore, for sustainable and inclusive growth of the Portuguese economy, which manages performance and well-being for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u5	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I begin by pointing out that it was on a proposal from the CFP, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, that a working group was formed for the evaluation of Portugal's public and external indebtedness. The purpose of this working group was to analyze, at the institutional level, the causes of the very high level of indebtedness of our country, as well as make the diagnosis of the current situation, analyze the future evolution and discuss possible solutions to this problem, having been heard, to this end, an extended set of personalities and institutions. The high size of public debt and external debt is a very serious national problem that cannot be emasculated. It would be a dangerous illusion to think that the debt problem is controlled and that the multiple external factors that condition its evolution will always have a favorable development. In certain conjunctural situations, debt, measured as a percentage of GDP, may even drop slightly, but external disturbances, which our country will not control or control, may again trigger debt for an upward trajectory, such as that which occurred from Portugal's accession to the single currency and, more importantly, from the financial crisis in 2008. In fact, with the current dimension of public debt, Portugal remains as vulnerable today as in the past to market volatility, to the whims of rating agencies and to the devastating action of speculators. Such a circumstance requires fundamental measures to solve the problem of indebtedness and, in particular, public debt, and not palliative measures which may lead to small reductions in their amount and interest paid annually do not address the root of the problem. Current debt management operations, such as those carried out by the previous and current governments, have resulted in small savings in the annual amount of public debt interest paid by Portugal, but in the future such savings can be easily cancelled by the rise of interest rates in international markets or by other factors which Portugal does not control. Other possibilities which have been considered, such as the exchange of debt, the establishment of equal financing conditions for euro area Member States or the return of interest paid to the European Central Bank ( ECB ), depend on the agreement of the institutions of the European Union, the ECB and other euro area countries. Even if such measures were accepted, they would always be accompanied by unacceptable taxes similar to those of the troika programme or those applied to Greece. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Public and external debt resulted from deindustrialisation, devalued agriculture and fisheries, the abandonment of the productive apparatus, the deprotection of the internal market, privatization, the growing financing of the economy, support and intervention in the bank, the promotion of large capital and financial speculation, the tax evasion of large capital, the submission to the European Union and to national and foreign monopolies and, in particular, of integration into the euro, which contributed to economic degradation, the weakening of the production apparatus and the replacement of national production by imports. With the accumulation of these debts, both public and external, they have won the export sectors of the major European countries, they have won the bankers, they have won the speculators, they have won the big economic and financial groups, they have won the great national and transnational capital; they have lost the national economy, the country, the workers, the reformed and the Portuguese people. Interests paid annually by public debt represent an unbearable burden for our country. The primary budget balances of billions of euros end up being devoured by the public debt service instead of being channelled to development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u8	Over EUR 7 billion spent annually on debt interest is lacking in public investment and in the financing of health, education, social security, culture or transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of debt needs to be addressed. The solution is not in mere current management operations or'micro solutions' which, despite positive contributions, essentially leave the problem of unsustainability of debt unchanged. The solution requires, as the CFP has been proposing since April 2011, a renegotiation of public debt in terms of terms, interests and amounts: a renegotiation that should be made in the interest of the Portuguese people, and not of creditors; a renegotiation that certainly implies discussing with creditors, which implies the study and evaluation of all possibilities that, in technical terms, support this objective, but which implies, above all, a firm political will in the defence of national interests; a renegotiation that is essential to create conditions for the realization of an alternative policy of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u11	Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall not register entries by any parliamentary group or by any Member. Let us wait a few seconds before we move on to the next point of our agenda. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate has been proposed by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization and, therefore, it is here with all the dignity inherent in this. Before being approved at the Conference of Leaders, there was a proposal from the Commission. We're moving forward, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u12	Mr President, following the order of size of parliamentary groups, it is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no orders or nuisances, no inscriptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u14	Mr President, may I use the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, which I think will be able to resolve the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u15	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u16	Mr President, I believe that there was the conviction — at least that of the CDS Parliamentary Group — that, as this was an atypical debate, proposed by a Commission, as Mr President said, if it were to follow the model in which the parliamentary groups would use the word as small as the largest. My proposal solves the problem because, having spoken to the CFP Parliamentary Group, the following group would be that of the CSD and, for my part, I will speak immediately, provided that this rule is adopted and that from then on the interventions are in order of magnitude. If the interventions are only in order of registration, I do not mention registering myself when the other parliamentary groups do not make that mention either.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u17	Mr President, of course, nothing was resolved at the Leaders' Conference on the order of inscriptions. from my strictly political-personal point of view, it would be the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization which should begin by explaining why this debate is proposed. However, since time has not been set aside for the Commission, I agree that you are the Member of Parliament to intervene. But we are also not fully respecting the growing order of greatness, because if not, we had to start with the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u18	But the Greens will not intervene, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u19	Will the Greens not use the floor in this debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u20	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u21	So, if you're the ladies. PSD Members don't object, I give the floor...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u22	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u23	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u24	Mr President, my plea is that I have no objection to what Mr Almeida and the PSD Parliamentary Group have suggested, but it should not be forgotten that a parliamentary group may not waste its time in the first intervention and make a second intervention. So I just wanted to warn you about this, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u25	Mr President, the Bureau understands your request. Mr Leitão Amaro has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, but I would ask that we do not waste much time on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u26	No, no, Mr President, I will be very brief. I just want to say that on the part of the PSD, like the Socialist Party, we agree with the methodology proposed by the CDS, moreover, we reinforce that it is the one that seems appropriate, not only for a normal practice in this type of debate but also because it guarantees in some way the alternativeness of interventions between the majority and the opposition. Finally, Mr President - please correct me if I am wrong - in this debate the speeches are taken and, therefore, whether they intervene and if the time is up or not. I believe that these are the rules of this debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u27	No, Mr, this is a normal debate, therefore, the parties manage time as they understand and there is no order of inscriptions, but I accept the methodology that Mr João Almeida proposed. Therefore, for an intervention, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate concludes a process that was carried out through the Committee on Budgets and Finance and that it was important to discuss a central problem in the country. It is clear that a country which has one of the highest public debt and one of the highest external debt in the world should discuss this problem in its main organ, from the point of view of representing society, which is the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, the need for debate is indisputable. The opportunity for debate is also relevant, because it was done at a time when Portugal was no longer under pressure, as it has been for many years, because it has been away from the markets, because it cannot be financed on markets, because it is being institutionally financed and has an exceptional situation that would not allow the debate to be held on reasonable criteria. Therefore, there would be every condition for this to be a final debate, so that this would be a debate in terms in which we could actually agree with each other. It happens that, strangely, as you will see — it has not yet been fully evident — that, having debated the problem, having heard a huge set of entities with different perspectives, having had great consensus between these entities who have come here to Parliament, there are parliamentary groups that, despite hearing the opposite of everything they have always said, continue to conclude exactly the same as they have always said. The main lesson we should learn from this working group is that politics must be done seriously. There are parliamentary groups and parties that, at the time that Portugal lived in enormous difficulties and had to ask for an external rescue, have constantly attacked with radically different alternatives. And the radically different alternatives were based on « we did not pay! , unilateral restructurings, « legs shaking the Germans », all and more could be done. And for what? Not to follow institutional solutions. During the difficult period, it was indeed very difficult to show that the institutional path was the only viable one that could bring us here. And it is ironic that some of those who are most pleased with the fact that we are now able to do everything we said we could do, if we were to follow the institutional path, say that what was good was to have done the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u30	Therefore, the great conclusion we have drawn from this working group, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the fact that, from all the discussion here, of all the entities that have come here, nothing or anyone has opposed one thing: if today we can have a policy of returns, if today we can have a sustainable growth policy of the economy, if today we can discuss which areas we should prioritize investment, if today we are not subject to the impositions of the troika, it is because we follow the institutional path; if we had not followed it, at this time we were not in a position to have all this. If we do not withdraw this conclusion at this time, we are rendering a terrible service to the country, because we are giving the illusion that, if a situation like the last one happens again — we hope that it will never happen! — we will be able to have a discussion like the one we had. Don't! We must have a discussion in other terms, and this is a conclusion from the working group. The CDS concludes this intervention by discussing exactly that, because there are other conclusions that have resulted from the working group and that are important. First of all, from our point of view, the participation of European entities in this working group was very frustrating. We realize that, from an institutional point of view, Europe continues to be unable to organize itself, firstly, to prevent such situations from happening and, secondly, to balance incentives for fulfilling countries to be effectively recognized and benefited when they follow the established institutional path. There are other issues that are also important. For example, there is an interesting debate about whether we should extend or narrow the average maturity of our public debt, and we prudently say that we should have an average maturity of public debt that will prevent us from jumping. In short, Portugal must, on the one hand, understand very well what happened to it, the advantages of having followed an institutional path and the inescapability of rejecting radical alternatives which are simply not feasible, and on the other hand, to concentrate on doing better and not inventing what cannot be done. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u31	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been very much debating the issue of public debt and I think we have found several approaches, two of which are very obvious. One of them is the moralist approach, which is the approach of those who say: "We are going to live above the possibilities, the country has spent, it has had electoral budgets, wages have gone up above productivity, it has spent a lot on public spending, in public services, it has created debt and debt has to be paid, and it has to be paid up to the last penny, whatever it costs, cost everyone! Contracts with pensioners may be broken, contracts with workers may be broken, a contract with financial markets for payment of debt may not be broken. This approach is moralistic, because it is almost a redemption: the crisis is the fault of our sins and we will redeem ourselves from our sins by paying a debt to the last penny, because it is our moral duty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u33	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u34	Many contracts can be broken, but debt is not one of them. This approach is wrong, because debt has structural factors that stem from the structural poverty of the Portuguese economy and also from bad political decisions from the past, but it is to a large extent the economic outcome of the financial crisis, because crises create deficits, because crises increase interest, because crises have problems of speculation about interest. I recall that in 2007 debt was high, but it was 68 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), and in 2008 debt was high, but it was 71 % of GDP ; by 2014, debt was 130 % of GDP. Debt is much more a consequence than a cause of the crisis, although there are structural problems in our external indebtedness and in our public indebtedness. Another approach to this issue is rational approach.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u35	Ui! Very rational!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u36	First, it is a question of recognizing that this is a problem, and we are not going to "sweep the problems under the carpet" because we do not have the courage to face or face those who impose bad solutions on us. Debt is a problem and it does not cease to be during this government — it is now 125 % of GDP. We should then ask why debt is a problem. It is a problem, because it is not sustainable in the long term, because it is not possible, because it is not plausible, because it is not conceivable that it is paid only by the long-term combination of budgetary surpluses, public debt interest and growth. It is not plausible for this to happen in the long run! First of all, even if there was a guarantee of interest and economic growth over the next 20 years, the obligation of primary surpluses is a very little seen, or almost never seen, in Europe and obliges States to exert enormous pressure never to do or always be delaying structural investments. Our SNS has been stagnant for 10 years, has suffered cuts for 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u37	Oh, is that good now? Oh, my God! It's a show!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u38	Our railway has been destroyed over the last 10 years. The country needs structural investments in its transport infrastructures, mobility, health, energy conversion. The country needs to invest in itself and, to that end, it needs to be able to have a budgetary policy that is not subject to debt. Above all, sirs. Members, it is irresponsible to think that the world, Europe, Portugal will go through the next 20 years without having a financial crisis, without having a speculative crisis, without having an increase in the deficit through an economic recession. It's unthinkable! The crisis will come! And when the crisis comes, the interest will rise—and it will not be the reputation of Minister Mário Centeno who will protect us from speculative bubbles—as, indeed, it is beginning to deal with panic over Italy. When the crisis comes, the deficit will increase, because the deficit is endogenous to the quality of the economy and the capacity of the economy to create wealth. When that time comes, the country will return to the suffocation of debt, and will return to the suffocation of debt, because it did not know how to solve it, because it chose to close its eyes, because the problem remains. What protects us is a restructuring of debt. That is why no one conceives that a company is suffocated by a debt, but conceives a restructuring of the debt. That is what allows a country to continue to pay part of the debt, but to have the capacity to grow, to develop. It is that a country has other responsibilities that not only to pay a debt, it has important responsibilities for its citizens, for its pensioners, for public servants, for the poorest. And these responsibilities are no less important, they are even more important than a contract with the financial market or a public debt contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u39	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what you have said here, many of the personalities who have been heard, especially Dr Manuela Ferreira Leite, recognize this long-term problem. They recognize the problem, because anyone who makes the accounts about interest, growth and surplus realizes that it is impossible to happen in the next 20 years what they are saying is supposed to happen; but, more than that, they recognize that the budget treaty is an aberration, it is a political aberration and it is an economic aberration, because it makes no sense, it is impossible — no one can say that it is comprehensible — and only leaves the country responsible for a problem that is systemic, keeping blackmail on the countries, on their peoples and on their democracies. The government knows, everyone knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u42	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Government has already been blackmailed by this budget treaty, but today it is one of its main advocates, in an acrylic manner. This is a dangerous position, because it examines the future not based on the reality of what we know will happen, but on the fiction that we want everything to go well in the future—and it will not always go well in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u44	Let me finish, Mr President, by saying that it seems to us that the government has failed the country when it did not require the debate on debt restructuring in Europe. Today, it may seem that this is a less important debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u45	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u46	...but it is demanding and it is important that it happen. When the matter is back on the table, we will realize the error that was not structurally solved this debt problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u47	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I will address the essential issue of public and external debt problems today, which is central and essential for the future of Portugal, so it is good to be discussed in this House. contrary to what has been said, I think there is some consensus regarding some ideas of the working group, which I think everyone will assume as reasonable. The first idea is that public and external debts, although in a better situation today than in the past — which is unequivocal — remain high and keep the country vulnerable to external shocks; the second idea is that spending on debt interest is very high and we have to lower, under the penalty of unnecessarily sacrificing public services; and the third idea is that strengthening economic growth and employment are essential ingredients for the sustainability of public debt. I think this is relatively consensual. I will clarify the PS position on debt and distinguish it from the bench positions on our right and left. The PS has a notion of debt sustainability which is economic, financial and social. On the economic and financial side, the PS argues that economic growth and employment are necessary — indeed, as our Prime Minister said yesterday — because there is more employment for social security and there is less spending on unemployment subsidies. A correct economic policy and employment policy promote the sustainability of public finances. On the financial side, almost balanced budgetary balances and financial liability have been the water brand of this government, this finance team. Finally, good conditions for financing our public debt are essential. This depends not only on us, but also on external conditions, on the action of the European Central Bank, but on us, and what we have done for financial recovery is in the eyes of all, it is not necessary to waste a lot of time with that, just to remember the appointment of Minister Mário Centeno as leader of the Eurogroup. But the PS, unlike the benches on our right, does not exhaust the analysis from the point of view of economic and financial sustainability. We are concerned about the social dimension of debt sustainability. And what is this about the social dimension of debt sustainability? It is to realize that the reduction in the weight of debt and the deficit that is intended to have in the long term, both the global and primary, must be socially sustainable, that is, it must be compatible with appropriate levels of public services and with reasonable levels of taxation. For PS, the social dimension of public policies cannot be ignored. Now, let's go to the parties on our right. What are the differences? First of all, the social dimension of debt sustainability, which I have just mentioned, has been completely ignored by the PSD/CDS government during its last governance — this is the first major difference. The second big difference is that the economic policy we defend must have coherent measures that promote private consumption, savings, investment, exports. Now, PSD and CDS ignored private consumption, contracted private consumption, which is the bulk of domestic demand, and put all forms, between quotes, in external demand, which resulted in a wrong economic policy. The third difference is that the PS Government has a proactive position on European rules, contrary to what has been said here by Mrs Mariana Mortágua. We have always had and continue to have a proactive policy in relation to the rules. We have discussed, taco the taco, with the European Commission, the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u49	Taco the taco! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u50	... we discuss whether the measures are one-off or not one-off, we discuss the structural balance and we confront the European Commission, in fact, we fear - it has been compared over the past three years with what is its interpretation of our balance. I finish, because I still wanted to stay for some extra time, eventually leaving for the second intervention, what distinguishes us from our left, but I say from now on that the PS of António Costa and the parliamentary group are increasingly aware...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u51	Sure! More and more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u52	... that we have an internal and external battle in front of the reduction of the public debt and the foreign debt of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u53	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: In the last year at the Parliamentary Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, we heard many personalities and institutions about the serious and structural problem of our country's highest public debt. After that, what do we conclude? We conclude that we, Portugal, are a serious country of people who believe that debts are to be paid; we are a country of intelligent people who know that those who do not pay or threat not pay end up paying much more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u56	The pensioners don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u57	We are a country of people with memories, who remember how much they suffered, for example, the Argentines, when they decided to say "We don't pay! »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u58	Cut wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u59	... but also how much the Portuguese suffered, when, in the bankruptcy of 2011, they remained practically none of those who lent them anything. But we are also a country of solidarity, which rejects a debt restructuring that would be a very strong cut in Portuguese savings — 60 % of Portuguese public debt is owned by residents, 30 000 million of whom by individuals, many of them pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u61	Mr. President, we in the PSD believe that debts are to pay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u62	They don't pay anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u63	... they were contracted by the state, for expenses handed over by governments, even though the vast majority by socialist governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u64	All right! It's true! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u65	We in the PSD believe that Portuguese public debt is sustainable and profitable, we believe that the duty of governments and the majority is to work and reform, much more than has been done, to reduce the debt we have and to grow far more than today, that we are of the worst in Europe. This is even more important when clouds of uncertainty are so thick in the world, and in Portugal, with protectionist wars, with the end of the ECB's expansionist monetary policy, with Brexit, or with the lack of reforms promising and announcing a fall in growth. All this, when Portugal maintains one of the highest debts in the world. Mr. President, in view of this, what did the left ones do? Instead of being reformist, they're wrong! They went wrong in the past, when they argued that it should be restructured and not paid, but again now, when they waste a unique opportunity, a very favourable economic environment to grow much more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u66	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u67	...to halt the increase in debt—which, with the left, has increased and reached a record—and further reduce its ratio in GDP. But we are not surprised that the left ones, including the government, are wrong now, because we remember how they started. They started with the bankruptcy and bailout of EUR 78 billion that asked for the troika; they started with the greatest ever increase in debt in the Socialist Government of Socrates and Costa; they started when the Secretary-General of the management of the present, Pedro Nuno Santos, said « we did not pay! to the creditors until their legs tremble." Now we know, after what we see them do, that there were legs that shook were those of the socialist rulers. But there were also 77 illustrious people, several of whom were members of this government and Members, when in 2014 they said that without debt restructuring it would not be possible to grow, reduce unemployment, reduce inequalities. You've been wrong about all this! We, with the PSD/CDS government, showed that without debt restructuring but with reforms, it was possible to make the country grow in three years, make unemployment fall 7 points, reduce inequality, drop the debt ratio in 2015, and, in March of that year, the 10-year debt interest reaches 1, 7%, the ratio that is today at 2 %, i.e., is worse. We show how we should do all this, honoring our commitments, reforming the economy and employment, negotiating quietly with the creditors. And yes, as the European Court of Auditors said, the previous government, with its renegotiations, managed to save interest on the Portuguese of EUR 2200 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Governors and Members of the Left, I am glad that it was to you that the legs shook, although they were silent with this talk, at least the Government, of the necessary restructuring of the debt and, fortunately, they also threw out that report of the working group between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, whose measures were so foolish or unapplicable that no one called them. But if that was good, it is bad that with you the public debt has reached a maximum of EUR 250 billion, i.e. EUR 25 000 per Portuguese, and two thirds of the Portuguese public debt has been created by whom? Socialist governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u69	Unfortunately, in your first year of government, they even increased the debt ratio and then did not reduce it as possible and the situation allowed. Unfortunately, because of your inability to make structural reforms, neither in the economy nor in employment nor in the Public Administration, they have achieved the effectiveness and efficiency that allow not only more growth and wealth to be given to the country but also more sustainability to its debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u70	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, you only know how to govern for the present and for the elections, leaving Portugal unprepared for attacks that we know come there, only when, continuing to ignore the debts implied for the future, such as in pensions or in the state heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u72	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u73	I will now finish, Mr President. After this, there is one thing we know: it was possible to do much more, but, looking at the words and acts of the parties and the left government, we realize that the monster of debt never came out of them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u74	For a second intervention, benefiting from time given by the NAP, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank the NAP for these extra minutes, because I will have a little more time to complete my ideas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What distinguishes us from the parties on our left? It is that while the parties on the right only think about Excel, they do not see the Portuguese who are behind Excel's leaf, and they do an analysis—in fact, reaffirmed now by what Mr. Leitão Amaro has just said—that debt is sustainable, nothing will happen, there will be no recessions in the coming years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u76	What? Oh, my God! I said exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u77	In fact, Mr Leitão Amaro, I do not know whether you have read the extensive report that has been made between us — PS, Block of Left and Independent Economists — but you must not have read it. It should be read that there are several measures in this report that have had an impact on two successive State budgets. I don't know if you remember something called Banco de Portugal dividends... Well, read it and you'll see it was a very successful job, a great job we did. With regard to what was said by Mr Leitão Amaro, in fact, I would have much more to say. Mr Leitão Amaro does something extraordinary, which is to say: "If we were in government, how much would Portugal grow? — it is the so-called counterfactual, which is impossible to do — 'The PSD would be great in the government'. Every time you speak in the past, I would like to remind you of just one value, which is that of the recession imposed by your Government on Portuguese in this country in 2012. It was 4 % of GDP of recession! Remember this! Emouldre this value, Mr. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mold this value in your room, never forget it and a wrong economic policy! I would always like to give a note to the parties on our left, which is also important. The parties on our left are very sensitive to the social dimension of sustainability, which I have mentioned, but they think less about the economic and financial dimension. And so they say: "Well, we don't need such a low deficit, because if it's bigger we can increase social services, etc. etc. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, there is a paradox here that these parties have not yet realized, or at least I think they have not realized: if we increase the deficit, half or more than half of the increase in the deficit means an increase in interest expenses, because of our rating and our international reputation diminish. We can say that we want to increase our deficit by EUR 1000 million, but more than EUR 500 million will be 'cooked' by interest. So, my friends, what we will have to understand — this is a debate that is worth doing and I will be available to do so — is about the level of the budget deficit that must be sustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u79	And for that, there is actually a conversation to be made. The other talk has to do with the amendments that must be made at European level. In its programme, the PS argued that it is necessary to rethink the architecture of economic and monetary union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u80	Just think of the program!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u81	We must think of mechanisms for the mutualization of debt, such as Eurobonds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u82	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u83	We must continue to discuss this because, and I end with this idea, Portuguese economic growth is not as much as we would like, although it is above the euro area average, because we have a very high debt. Therefore, a European debt solution will only benefit Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u84	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 143 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Drug Control Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103. To open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Mesquita Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u85	Mr President, I begin by addressing my compliments and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen who have seats in our House of Democracy. With this initiative, the Government submits to the Assembly a proposal to amend Decree-Law No. 15 / 93 of 22 January which approved the Legal Regime Applicable to Traffic and Consumption of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. We add new psychoactive substances to drug definition and transpose Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017. Substances to be included in national legislation now represent serious risks to public health and serious social risks as recognised by the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs. The tables annexed to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January list plants, substances and preparations whose production, traffic and consumption are subject to control measures and to criminal sanctions in compliance with obligations under the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, the United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. As you know, these tables have been subject to successive changes, the last of which through Law No 7 / 2017 of 2 March. New psychoactive substances are detected on the market with an impressive frequency, often corroding minimal molecular variations, in the face of other known illicit substances, in an attempt to take advantage of the principle of the typicality of the sanction law. For this reason, this is an area where public safety and health demand a particularly attentive, vigilant and proactive stance from the legislator, as well as a permanent effort to update the law's mesh towards the reality of the market. Indeed, the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs regularly amends the list of substances annexed to the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961, on the basis of the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which are also included in our proposal for a law. For all these reasons, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that this bill is very much worth the unanimous support of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u87	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: What we are discussing today is the Government's proposal to amend the anti-drug law, transposing the European Union directive for the inclusion in the definition of new psychoactive substances, as the Secretary of State has just said, and this is 23. the amendment to a policy which has been at this level for 25 years. It is important to note that the process has been peaceful. This is a very complex, demanding and rigorous process involving the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council, the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, as we know in Lisbon. So, with this transposition, Portugal is — and rightly so — aligned not only with European policies but also with the international policies of the United Nations, which we subscribe to and are fulfilling. The aim is to integrate into the definition of drugs, 5 new psychoactive substances, 26 more that were missing and thus the health of Portuguese and Portuguese people is cautious about the risks to public health, but also about the social risks to the life of all of us. This alignment with European policies and international policies reflects, from the outset, the requirements of this policy that have been assumed by the government and our responsibilities in this area. Portugal is, in fact, a world reference model for drugs and drug addiction, a humanist model, which we are very proud of. I therefore welcome the government's new proposal for restructuring the SICAD (Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies) and therefore in this respect I address the Ministry of Health, which is allowing us to leave the marasmos in which the right has plunged the SICAD into the last government. It is a restructuring that strengthens the autonomy of those services with an aspect that we have always defended: autonomy and integration in the National Health Service, thus regaining the management capacity, which had been lost, thus regaining the responsibilities of our country in this dossier, thus regaining the motivation of the excellent professionals who were very demobilized throughout this year. Therefore, five groups were created, local intervention units, in the line of the ACES (Association of Health Centres ) with a close approach, liaison to the authorities, non-governmental organizations that will respond to the needs of people in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u88	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u89	I'm done now, Mr. President. With the transposition of this Directive and this reorganized service, we are in a position to regain the capacity for renewal, to regain the capacity of international and European leadership that we have always had in this area. Go to the government! We're on the right track! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a proposal for a law from the Government, which transposes a directive from the European Union to the Portuguese legal system, which determines to its Member States the adoption of legislation which includes new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs. This amendment implies an addition to the tables annexed to Decree-Law No 15/93 of 22 January, a diploma concerning the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The substances in question represent serious risks to public health, but also serious social risks, which is why their production, trafficking and consumption should cease to be counter-ordinating in order to move to the criminal sphere. It should also be noted that the European Directive now transposed takes into account the recommendations of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs, which regularly amends the list of substances annexed to the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961. This is therefore a subject which must bring together consensus, with a view to continuing efforts by States and societies to combat the use of illicit drugs. The PSD, aware of its responsibilities in addressing the issues related to addictions and in particular the phenomenon of the fight against drugs, will vote in favour of this diploma resulting from the fulfilment of the obligations of the Portuguese State. Drug control policies should not be ambiguous. They cannot let the wrong idea go that these substances may eventually be harmful. Let us be clear: they are harmful! Destroy people! Break up families! They corrode social cohabitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u93	There is therefore a long battle to be waged, a battle without a quartz, in a society that evolves quite rapidly and in which common standards of acceptance are increasing. The emergence of new substances is quite volatile and there is enormous uncertainty about the real effects it causes. The rapid pace in which new substances of high degree of toxicity associated with a low degree of notion of danger requires all agents, together, a constantly attentive and assertive response. Therefore, PSD will always be present in this fight! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u94	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u95	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I believe that the proposal presented here will be relatively peaceful, in fact, at 23. the amendment to the Decree-Law, which has had more or less regular updates over time and have always been peaceful. I believe that, moreover, this was a good time for us to have a little more discussion about Portugal's approach to the topic of drugs and substance consumption. The Secretary of State mentioned — and we fully agree — the fact that almost daily new substances, essentially synthetic, appear, and the idea of having a decree of law that goes behind the substances that are appearing, because it is always a race against time, a decree of law that is going to be updated, but that does not actually give the most real and necessary approach to the question of drug use and some substances. It therefore seems to us that this debate cannot be stopped from other debates, particularly the so-called Portuguese model, which is still seen in the light of many countries today as a very important and innovative model. We must be sincere and look at the Portuguese model, realize that it is losing lightning and that we need to have new approaches. We look at the SICAD reports and we see that the area of prevention is losing ground, for example, to the detriment of the area of repression. In recent years, there have been more counter-ordinations and condemnations. Now, the so-called "Portuguese model" was exactly the reversal of this paradigm, it was an approach to health and not so much in the area of justice. What numbers and reality show us is that, in recent years, this has been reversed and certainly negatively, since there is more and less prevention and more action by police forces, repressing consumers and users of substances. It seems to us that this also deserves a reflection, in addition to this proposal which is presented here by the Government. It should also deserve special reflection on our policy for risk reduction and harm minimization, which was almost abandoned during the PSD and CDS-PP government and needs to be reactivated. Last question: apart from the discussion of this Decree-Law, it seems to me that there must also be a more comprehensive approach to the consumption and use of substances. New approaches are needed. For example, New Zealand was confronted this year with 45 deaths due to consumption of synthetic neocanabinoids—we are talking about new synthetic substances that are introduced into the market, therefore without great control, without great regulation. The discussion that is currently taking place is whether there should be a legalization of non-synthetic cannabinoids...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u96	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u97	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, the discussion that is currently taking place is whether there should be no legalization, for example, of non-synthetic cannabinoids, just to allow for better control of new synthetic substances, which are much more dangerous, and not to place in the same bag of illegality what are non-synthetic cannabinoids and synthetic cannabinoids. So I do not oppose the bill that the Government here brings us, it seems to us that the debate should be much longer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In fact, it has already been said that today we are discussing a bill of 23. the amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January on the Legal Regime Applicable to Traffic and Consumption of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. In particular, what is being discussed here is the addition of new substances and substances that were not yet in Portuguese legal order. On this subject, it is important to say that the inclusion of these substances is obviously a result of advances in scientific knowledge about the harmful effects these substances have on public health, on individuals, but also, as has already been said by the Secretary of State, on the risks they have to society. And it is not a risk that should be neglected; on the contrary, it is a risk that must be properly addressed. This is a matter that we are following — from a legal point of view, that is what has to be done, that is the addition to the tables — but this discussion, in our view, must go further. It is not enough to say that these substances have a serious risk to public health, a risk to the individual and also social risks, it would be important to say that their inclusion in the tables does not in itself solve these consequences. That is why it would also be important for us in this debate to be discussing what the country wants with regard to the policy of prevention, treatment and minimization of risks. It is well said that Portugal has an extremely recognized model out there—it is true! — However, it is true that the policy options which successive governments have taken on this subject, including the current one, with regard to the public response to this area, call into question the gains that this Portuguese model has allowed to achieve. That is why, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, it is important to say that Portugal cannot go back, it cannot take any step back with regard to coordination, planning, treatment, rehabilitation and minimization of damage in this area. It was this coordinated public structure in an integrated way that allowed these advances and it is this public response that must be continued rather than fragmented. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u101	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Firstly, I would like to say that this is one of those debates that is extremely important and that, despite that and perhaps even so, there is not much to debate, as we have already seen, because this is absolutely consensual. The addition of substances to the list of prohibited or conditioned drugs is a matter of great importance, a list which has therefore been often added. The CDS obviously accompanies this government fight. Mr Secretary of State, we have nothing to point out on the subject, not even on the deadline for transposition—see that, this time, they have been able to comply with the deadline for transposition of the Directive, which is a novelty in relation to other matters and therefore I welcome it, nor even the subsequent amendments to the list. We are now on the 23rd amendment, but they are absolutely imperative, because the times are changing and every day new highly harmful substances are emerging. Obviously, these successive amendments are absolutely essential, so we must guard against them. The Secretary of State, at this headquarters, would like to point out the strengthening of cooperation between the judicial authorities and the police, because this is, of course, a cross-border and transnational combat. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that this reinforcement be more muscled, which now also operates through the amendment of Framework Decision 2004 / 757 / JHA. It is essential that we work increasingly to bring together efforts to combat this type of crime in a more global way than is done today. Taking advantage of the subject, I would like to urge the Government, through the Secretary of State, to pay some attention to what is happening today in prisons. We know — it is said to the'small mouth' and the prison guards — that drug trafficking in chains is increasing, thanks to the fact that there are few human resources and few technical resources to make this assessment. It would therefore be absolutely vital that this should be carefully scrutinized and treated in a more muscular way, because it is important that the fight be done on this subject as well, but it is even more important that the siege be drawn to the fight against drug trafficking in Portugal. We know that Portugal — all studies point to this — is a gateway to Europe. In the last five years, the number of seizures has been steadily rising. It is essential that this fight be done in a completely muscular way so that these harmful substances, which Mr. Musa Ferreira spoke recently, do not enter our market and our market into other markets in such a scary way as it has happened. I hope that the Government will have even more action in this area than it has had so far. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u102	There are no entries from the Greens and the NAP to close this debate, and I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has to be raised on a subject which should be of concern to us all and which obviously concerns what is happening a little around the world but also in our country, which has to do with the increase in the consumption of psychotropic substances and drugs. As Mr President of the Republic said, there is today virtually no family that does not have a teenager with mental health problems due to consumption of this type of product. In fact, many families — I know several, some of them even close to me — are discussing themselves with very serious difficulties caused by the consumption of drugs by their children, especially when they are in adolescence. So we have to be careful. The Ministry of Justice does not run away from this fight and we do not comply with modesty, difficulties or inadequacies, because we also agree with what has been said here. It is not enough to add a set of psychoactive substances to a list to keep our conscience calm, much more needs to be done. It is necessary to combat trafficking and it is necessary to help young people not to fall into the path that leads them to become dependent and many of them become addicted to life. Now, this goes through an extended investment, from the health area to schools. The Ministry of Justice, as far as its share of responsibility is concerned, is available to embrace this fight. I should also like to point out that during my term of office, I have found that there has been a reinforcement in order to raise awareness among our young people, with conferences in schools, with the attendance of specialists at schools to warn them of the problem arising from the consumption of this type of product. from the point of view of health, I am aware that today there are some high quality structures that provide support to families, because these situations often generate very serious problems within the couple themselves, lead to divorce, a destruction that has no more repair and therefore most families that have this type of problems at home need psychological support. I wanted to tell the ladies. Members that the Ministry of Justice is strongly committed to all the initiatives that are coming to take place and will certainly be a promoter of some, in order to help combat this problem, because we want our young people, especially our young people, to be promised a promise for the future so that our country can grow harmoniously and that they do not have a stolen future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u104	This concludes the debate on the second item on our agenda. We will continue with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 115 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the functioning and framework of non-judicial entities for consumer disputes and draft resolutions Nos 1816 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the extension of the consumer arbitration network and 1817 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent submission to the Assembly of the Republic of legislative initiative to ensure the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Trade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for an amendment to the regime regulating the alternative resolution of consumer disputes in Portugal is another initiative that implements the Government's programme, in part concerning the promotion of consumer protection and rights in Portugal. In the specific case, it appreciates the role already played by alternative consumer dispute resolution entities in creating conditions so that these entities can do more and, above all, better with regard to the quality of the service they provide to our consumers — better in terms of consumer access to this system, better in terms of simplicity and harmonization of procedures, better in terms of the speed and quality of the decision. in this sense, this bill is organized into three fundamental axes. First, strengthening the quality of decision, highlighting here the forecast of the establishment of an arbitrator stock exchange and a greater involvement of regulatory entities, sectors, essential public services, either in terms of specialized training or in terms of technical support to be provided by those regulatory entities to these alternative dispute resolution entities. I recall that we are talking about electronic communications, we are talking about postal services, we are talking about energy, water, waste and sanitation, which represent the bulk of consumer conflicts in Portugal. The second issue concerns harmonisation, through the effective implementation of a harmonised regulation of procedures and development of a computer platform common to the already developing arbitration centres, being one of the measures that integrates a closer justice plan. The third axis concerns sustainability. Contractualization is envisaged with the regulators of essential public services levels of service quality and their financing, and the State is always responsible for financing these alternative consumer dispute resolution entities. This bill therefore advocates the existence of well-structured and financially balanced alternative dispute resolution entities and advocates a national network of consumer arbitration that is intended to be effective, efficient, quality and that increasingly covers national territory. on this point, let me refer to the draft resolution of the PS Parliamentary Group, which aims precisely to promote the enlargement of the arbitration network throughout the country. This proposal for a law thus materializes another step on the road that is now being taken in Portugal to promote and defend consumer rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u106	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u107	Madam President, Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs. Under-Secretary-General for State and Trade and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Andriessen and others. Members: The alternative resolution of consumer disputes has been considered as a priority at both national and European level, presenting itself as a simple, speedy and accessible extrajudicial solution to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses. In fact, the approach of justice to citizens is also based on the development of alternative means of settlement of disputes, as we defend in the draft resolution that we present in this debate. Consumption conflicts are for consumers who have to deal with problems relating to the acquisition of real consumer goods or services obstacles to their well-being and as such require a prompt response and a quick and effective solution that will put an end to it effectively. The consolidation of the national network of consumer arbitration centres is framed by European initiatives, namely Directive 2013 / 11 / EU, transposed to our legal order by Law No 144 / 2015, which created the Consumer Arbitration Network in Portugal, and Regulation ( EU) No 524 / 2013, which created the online dispute resolution platform, which has been operating since 15 February 2016, providing an easy and quick way to resolve consumer disputes arising from the purchase or contracting of services provided online. It is therefore increasingly necessary to give consistency to the network of institutionalised arbitration centres to operate in the field of consumer disputes, both in terms of consolidating the financing of these entities and in terms of their way of action, which, for the sake of understanding by the citizens of the justice system, if it wants to be as uniform as possible, even if we are faced with non-state forms of administration of justice. It is stressed that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy emphasizes in its opinion the support for this consolidation of the network based on the quality of the service provided. The proposed law, which we accompany and greet, favours a common information system, harmonised procedures, transparency and quality based on alternative consumer dispute resolution entities, with concern about having the administrative and financial structures properly balanced. The Socialist Party's draft resolution reiterates the need for this coherence of the network of arbitration centres and recommends the uniform extension of this network and coverage that can and should be guaranteed through the inter-municipal communities (CIM), whose territory is not yet covered by the current network, aiming at greater deconcentration of the network beyond the large urban centers, facilitating access to a greater number of people in a progress that is universal. It is considered that such centres for arbitration of consumer conflicts, to be established within the framework of the CIMs, should be supported by the central administration. As regards draft resolution No 1817 / XIII / 4. a, from the CDS, I would like to say that Portugal has positioned itself in the front line and that we are developing early work, despite the complexity that leads to the creation of a structural organization that allows the implementation and implementation of this Regulation, which will enter into force on 3 December 2018. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the new justice for consumer disputes needs to be more rapid, closer, simpler, and to inform consumers of their rights with quality and should prevent and resolve disputes and have an ever wider territorial scope. The present is, in this challenging area, the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u108	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u109	Madam President, Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs. Under-Secretary-General for State and Trade and Parliamentary Affairs, Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask the Under-Secretary of State and Trade to forgive me — to tell the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, who is here on behalf of the Minister of Justice, that this is something that we, the CDS, have treated very dearly. We have a huge sympathy for alternative dispute resolution and we have repeatedly asked about the momentum that needed to be given to them. I would therefore like to congratulate you, Mr Secretary of State, on finally this proposal for a law on strengthening and consolidating the network of consumer arbitration, which is absolutely vital and important, to see the light of the day. We have often talked about this, and even a working group has been set up. I would therefore like to congratulate you on that. I would like to say that this network of arbitration centres was set up by the previous government, but it was now necessary, in fact, to drive it and therefore the CDS welcomes that impulse. But I would like to leave two notes here before moving on to another issue. The first note is that I regret that we do not know the conclusions reached by the working group, because it would be useful for our work in the field to have access to these conclusions. The second note is a question which has to do with the financing model which Mr. Secretary of State spoke to us recently. Perhaps the conclusions of the working group may dissipate us, but finally, the Secretary of State will be here to do so. The Secretary of State tells us that the financing model is partially ensured by the regulators of the essential public services to whom the decisions will apply. My question is this, Mr Secretary of State: being an obligation of the State to finance these centres, why is this funding partly made by these regulatory entities, which will, after all, regulate the services to which the decisions apply? Can there not be a cloud of suspicion here about the exemption from decisions that may be made? I'd like to understand this. Because we are talking about consumption, I would like to explain the draft resolution of the CDS, which recommends to the Government that it urgently submit to the Assembly of the Republic — probably this matter also has to do with the Secretary of State, so even though it is here — a legislative initiative to ensure the implementation of the geoblocking regulation (unjustified geographical blockade ). The regulation comes into force next December and, so that it does not happen like the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), which has already entered into force and nothing has happened in the meantime, it would be good to deal with this matter. The geoblocking is simple, it's a big word, but it's something very simple. At present, what happens is that — certainly, it has already happened to many of us here — we often try to buy goods via the Internet, on sites located geographically in other countries, not Portugal and other Member States, and now we are barred, now we are redirected to other sites, now, when we are redirected to other sites, the price changes or the conditions of purchase change. It is important and curious, in a union where one of the touchstones is the free movement of people and goods, which, also on the Internet, can happen. What the geoblocking regulation is precisely trying to avoid is this geographical blockade. Portugal therefore has an obligation to apply the regulation as from December 3, and for this reason not only must be designated the entity responsible for dealing with these issues, but also the penalties to be applied to the offenders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u110	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u111	I will finish, Madam President. Thank you very much for calling attention. December is already there, we are in mid-October and it would be important that these issues really be dealt with quickly and we urge the Government to do so. By now, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you what is in preparation for this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u112	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is important to begin by stressing that the PSD has always followed the principle of the relevance of alternative consumer dispute resolution as a simple, speedy and accessible extrajudicial solution to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses. in this theme of the extrajudicial resolution of consumer disputes, new solutions, effective solutions to promote and implement a national network of fully effective, efficient and quality consumption arbitration, consisting of alternative consumer disputes resolution entities with balanced administrative and financial structures are identified here. We are also discussing here today the enlargement of the arbitration network to other parts of the country, and the fact is that the Portuguese system does not offer real, sufficient and coherent solutions, nor enough territorial coverage, and it is also important to work at this level to correct these shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will naturally recognize and support any proposal that is in line with consumer protection, consumer interests, of course always associated with the agility of our justice. This is our purpose. However, it is necessary to analyse and deepen the necessary consolidation with extrajudicial dispute resolution mechanisms, as well as to deepen the need to bet on the definition of the competences of the entities responsible for coordinating and supervising the functioning of the consumer arbitration network. Support for the consolidation of the arbitration network should, of course, be based on the quality of the service provided by alternative dispute resolution entities and also on the strengthening of cooperation with regulatory entities in the sectors with a higher level of conflict. In fact, the PSD has already presented some initiatives in this House and others are pending which also meet our concerns. These initiatives focus on this discussion, for example, the adoption of measures that promote alternative means of resolving consumer disputes, either through a feeling of lack of publicity or legal uncertainty, or through the adoption of training, information and supervision measures, always in the defence of consumer rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a range of criticisms that can be directed to the current model, without the viability of this model being put at risk at all. Let us, then, in the field of expertise, seek to improve, by making alternative procedures take place, in this area, a preferred place in relation to the length of procedures in the conventional jurisdictional bodies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u114	I now give the floor to Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u115	Madam President, Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs. Under-Secretary-General for State and Trade and Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: Today, in this Assembly of the Republic, the Government presents the Proposal for Law No 115 / XIII / 3. a, which is the second amendment to Law No 144 / 2015. On the basis of the principle that only what does not work or what works is wrong, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the starting point for these amendments, that is, what does not work at this time, even though we agree with the intransigent defence of the interests of consumers through the implementation of more rapid measures in the resolution of consumer disputes, in particular by speeding up and strengthening all possible mechanisms for the extrajudicial resolution of these disputes, and through mediation and arbitration. It is a priority to be put in place in this country, for the benefit of Portuguese consumers, on the same footing as in the other countries of the European Union. This proposal makes every sense because it aims to change the purpose of correcting the prolongation of proceedings and to contribute to greater administrative efficiency and transparency of the entire process of alternative resolution of consumer conflicts. It is a greater agility, independence and impartiality in decision-making that the RALs (Alternative Resolution of Consumer Disputes) should correspond, as well as to a greater proximity of citizens—as well as defend the draft resolution presented by the PS—through a broad network, out of focus on the territory and proximity to citizens, but also accessible to all Portuguese consumers. At the website of the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, these resolutions are reported to be processed free of charge or at reduced costs. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, BE considers that the resolution of these cases of consumer conflict should be universal and free of charge. Consumers are not enough to fall into this kind of conflict, as they still have to pay for their resolution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u116	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u117	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: It is known that the CFP has never been enthusiastic about the use of arbitration to resolve disputes — this is our position, which we have maintained. Indeed, what the Constitution establishes is that citizens have the right to effective judicial protection to defend their interests and rights, to have their interests legally protected. We understand that this is the way in which disputes must be resolved. If we say that disputes of minor importance and economic relevance should not overburden the courts, we also agree and that is why we always consider the existence of a network of peace judges to be necessary in Portugal that could resolve these small disputes, we call them, with conditions of impartiality, speed and even informality. We think that's the way. It does not seem to us that the way is arbitration, because of the fundamental issue of the guarantee of impartiality in judgment, which, we think, is safeguarded by the independence of those who judge, while in arbitral courts there are no equal guarantees of impartiality and independence in judgment. What we know is that, when we are in an economic relationship—and indeed, in the case of consumer conflicts, in its overwhelming majority, there is no economic equality between the consumer and the one who provided him with a product that is the subject of dispute—there is a relationship of deep economic inequality between both parties. Experience has also shown that where there is deep economic inequality between the parties and where there is no entity whose fairness of judgment is « bulletproof », as is commonly said in a football language, the field is inclined. We have the most well-founded fears that when it comes to arbitration, the field is indeed inclined. There are very elucidative experiences, particularly in the area of arbitration, which show that, when great economic interests are involved or even situations in which, on the one hand, the interest of the State is concerned, on the other hand, the particular interest—although not the case of this legislative initiative—the field is indeed inclined. This is the case in which I have just mentioned against the state and consumer conflicts, which do not have the same means to enforce their rights than a large economic group on the other side. So that we don't have any enthusiasm. We recognize that there is an attempt to improve some of these mechanisms for the functioning of existing arbitration bodies in matters of consumer conflict, but I stress that it is not a matter of enthusiasm. We believe that it would be essential for the State to assume its full responsibilities, in order to ensure, in particular, through a sufficient network of peace judges, that problems and consumer conflicts can be judged with speed, fairness and, fundamentally, with justice. The recourse to arbitral courts may be speedy, but it is not necessarily fair and the question of justice in decisions is something of fundamental concern to us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u118	With no further inscriptions, I call again on Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade to close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u119	Madam President: First of all, I would like to stress what seems to me to be a general consensus on the objective of this bill and the solutions it calls for. I believe that this consensus was, to a greater or lesser extent, present in the interventions that have been made. I would like to highlight, following the order of the speeches of the parliamentary groups on the PS side, the motion for a resolution recommending that the Government extend the arbitration network. This is something that the Government also took into account in drafting this bill. With regard to the questions put by the Member of the CDS-PP and the geoblocking in the CDS motion for a resolution, I would like to say that we are already working on this legislative initiative which also aims to implement a regulation in Portugal which will only enter into force on 3 December. So there's still time, but we're working on it. As regards the proposal for a specific law, the question of impartiality of decisions has been raised, taking into account one of the means of financing which is being advocated here in the proposal for a law. I recall once again — I have already said in my speech — that one of the foundations of funding is still being provided by the State. Today, this funding base is provided both by the Ministry of Justice and by the Ministry of Economic Affairs through the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs. It is therefore expected that this will continue in this way, but now the funding to be provided by the regulators of the essential public services, which also have in their statutes the promotion of consumer rights - therefore, makes sense, even to the legal framework that already exists - and the decisions that will be taken in what I hope will be the new legislative framework will be aimed at regulated entities rather than regulatory entities. Therefore, I do not think that there is a confusion between funding and decision-making entities here. I think this concern is legitimate, but it is guarded. With regard to the speech of the PSD Member, I am pleased once again to recognise the consensus on the major structural axes of this bill. With regard to the questions put by Mr De Clerk of the Left Block, I would like to point out that we have sought to strengthen what we want to work better, that is, the quality of service that is provided by these alternative dispute resolution entities, quality of service which, necessarily, must also have associated funding. It's on this double side that we're working on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u120	Mr. Secretary of State, attention to time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u121	To conclude and report on the speech of the Member of the CFP, I think we have the same objectives. We may not agree with the instruments, but the truth is that we also want more rapid, simple and accessible justice for consumers in Portugal with this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u122	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this third item is thus concluded. We will continue with the discussion of the Bill No 113 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Specifies the crime of aggression by amending Act No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court. To present this bill, she has the floor again to the Under-Secretary of State and Justice. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As already mentioned, an amendment to the criminal law on violations of international humanitarian law is in question. As you know, the Rome Statute, which created the International Criminal Court, was approved by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 3 / 2002 and ratified by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 2 / 2002. In 2004, with a view to adapting the domestic legal system to the international commitment to that ratification, Law No. 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapted the Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, establishing the conduct that constitute crimes of violation of international humanitarian law and also amending the Seventh Penal Code. The crime of aggression, although already contained in the framework of the competences of the International Criminal Court, in accordance with the Rome Statute, was not densified in this instrument, and only its jurisdiction over that illegal one is ensured, although without express delimitation of its conceptual scope. On 11 June 2010, the Rome Statute Review Conference, held in Kampala, Uganda, adopted an amendment to the Statute by Resolution RC / Res.6, introducing a new Article 8. the bis, with the definition of the crime of aggression and established the regime under which the International Criminal Court will exercise jurisdiction over this crime. The entry into force of this amendment depends on the ratification of 30 States, which has already been reached, and on the decision taken by two thirds of the States Parties after 1 January 2017, which has also happened, having decided to activate the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in respect of the crime of aggression since 17 July 2017. Having already completed the ratification process by Portugal, in accordance with Notice No 49 / 2017, published in the Journal of the Republic, No 92, 1. the Series of 12 May 2017, the Government, with this bill, intends to adapt the domestic legal order to the amendment introduced to the Rome Statute, adding the crime of aggression to the Portuguese criminal law relating to violations of international humanitarian law, as annexed to Law No 31 / 2004 of 22 July. We therefore propose that the crime of aggression be introduced into our legal order, punishing it with imprisonment between 10 and 25 years, which consists of planning, preparing, triggering or executing an act of aggression against another State which, by its character, seriousness and dimension, constitutes a manifest violation of the Charter of the United Nations for those who are in a position to effectively control or lead the political or military action of a State. With this amendment, I believe again, we reaffirmed the place of Portugal at the forefront of the defence of peace, international law and human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u124	For the first time in this debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor by the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of this legislative initiative of the Government, as was clear, is to confirm the validity of the so-called Amendments of Kampala to the Statute of the International Criminal Court in the Portuguese legal order. In fact, in 1998 when the Statute was approved, genocide crimes, peace crimes, war crimes were committed and there was no consensus as to the conceptual delimitation or the conditions for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the ICT (International Criminal Court ) on the crime of aggression, which is because the most frequent aggressors, the great powers, have always manifested themselves in a reservation on this matter. So what happened in Kampala was clearly a victory of international law against the strength of the most powerful, and it is therefore very important that Portugal has ratified these amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court and that Parliament can now associate itself, bringing this matter into the domestic legal order. Henceforth, the impunity of the aggressors, the impunity of those who stand in the photographs of the Lajes summits of all time, this impunity, today, is fully challenged and this is particularly important for those who believe in the prevalence of peace and international law on force. For this reason, Madam Secretary of State, we want to say that Portugal gives a positive sign of intransigence to whom, and I read the Government's bill, « (...) being in a position to effectively control or conduct the political or military action of a State, to plan, prepare, initiate or execute an act of aggression against another State, which, by its character, by its gravity and by its dimension, constitutes a manifest violation of the Charter of the United Nations ». It is important that this is and it is important to realize that Portugal actually leaves itself—and this is the first and fundamental consequence of this bill—to have alibis for the criminal prosecution of perpetrators of acts of aggression such as those which this norm is consistent. Therefore, there will no longer be any kind of subterfuge to legitimize acts of aggression with humanitarian rhetoric or with the rhetoric of the democratic transformation of countries. No, aggression is aggression and this is today embodied in the law of the country itself, as we believe it should be. Therefore, its leaders must be judged, punished and, with this step, Portugal undertakes to be an agent of this fundamental principle. on the side of the Left Block, we'll be here to demand it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. Now it's PCP time. Mr António Filipe has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We agree with this bill, we will vote in favour of it and I will explain why. We did not agree with Portugal's ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. This was a long discussion which we had here in 2001 and which led even to the need for an extraordinary constitutional review so that existing constitutional obstacles could be furnished to Portugal's ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. But, fundamentally, we have never believed that the International Criminal Court, as defined by the Rome Statute, which constituted it, could be an appropriate mechanism for the enforcement of international justice, insofar as, fundamentally, the world's main aggressors are exempt from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, they are self-sent in the jurisdiction of this Tribunal and this does not allow us to overcome a situation that is the one that we have always lived throughout history, in which international criminal courts are the courts of winners. Therefore, the International Criminal Court would have no way of overcoming this state of affairs. Indeed, life has given us reason. The fact that the world's greatest aggressors are self-absent of international justice makes it not effective. But at the time, what was discussed was that there could be no doubt that our opposition to the Statute of the International Criminal Court did not mean that we believed that the crimes against humanity there should be impunity in the Portuguese legal order. We therefore presented a legislative initiative at the time to ensure that all the crimes provided for in the Statute of the International Criminal Court were accepted in the domestic legal order. We were accompanied by this idea and, in fact, the PSD finally proposed, later, a legislative initiative in this regard. And it was unanimously the adoption of this legislative initiative that led to the adoption of the 2004 law, which is now intended to improve. Therefore, all that is punished by international justice under the Statute of the International Criminal Court is punished in Portugal by domestic law. Thus, some author of these crimes found in Portugal is not free to answer before Portuguese justice, regardless of the attitude or inertia of the International Criminal Court. That is why we agree that this improvement which is made to the Statute of the International Criminal Court is welcomed in the Portuguese domestic order, and this crime of aggression is indeed very far-reaching. When we look at the fact that, on the basis of the adoption of this bill, we are punished, in the Portuguese domestic order, with imprisonment for 10 to 25 years « who, in a position to effectively control or conduct the political or military action of a State, plan, prepare, initiate or execute an act of aggression against another State », we believe that this is a great civilizational acquisition for Portuguese criminal law. And when we see that this concept is included in paragraph (f ), the fact that the State allows its territory, in itself, to be made available to another State, either by the State used to carry out an act of aggression against a third State, we remember what happened in Portugal with the Lajes Summit and we believe that if what is proposed here was already in force at that time, the attitude of the Portuguese rulers of the height would probably not be unpunished. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u128	Mr Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. Please. Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government Bill that is here today for our assessment, Bill No 113 / XIII / 3. the, criminalizes the crime of aggression by amending Law No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting the Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court and is intended, as has already been said, to bring the Portuguese legislation into line with the amendments introduced in the Rome Statute, which have established the strict definition of the crime of aggression, as well as the conditions for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in respect of this crime. So this is what we are dealing with here. The Rome Statute, which has already been said here, provided that the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction to, inter alia, judge this crime of aggression. However, its definition, as well as the conditions of exercise of that jurisdiction, were deferred to a later date, which only happened in 2010. On 11 June 2010, the Rome Statute Review Conference, held in Kampala, adopted a new Article 8 of the Statute Amendment. the bis, the definition of the crime of aggression and established the regime under which the International Criminal Court will exercise its jurisdiction over this crime. The entry into force of this Amendment was dependent on its ratification by 30 States, what has already happened, and the decision, taken by two thirds of the States Parties after 1 January 2017, what has already happened, and thus the Assembly of the States Parties of the International Criminal Court decided to activate this jurisdiction, with regard to the crime of aggression, as from 17 July 2018. What this bill has to do, in particular, is to add to our criminal order the crime of aggression to the crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and to do so through an addition, the addition of article 16. o -A to that Law No 31 / 2004, which corresponds to the wording of Article 8. that of the Amendments of Kampala. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, this matter is absolutely consensual and the PSD Parliamentary Group has nothing to oppose or oppose this bill, since it is also no more than the fulfilment of international obligations to which the Portuguese State was already bound and had already been obliged, precisely as a result of the ratification process by Portugal. And because we are a serious and responsible party, which likes Portugal to honour its commitments, of course we will give our consent to this bill. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u130	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u131	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I would like to say from now on, Madam Secretary of State, for what is really relevant, that this bill deserves the agreement of the CDS, that it will vote in favour of it, from the very outset because the CDS is a party which defends the fulfilment of Portugal's international commitments, particularly within the framework of the international organisations of which it is a signatory. Of course you will have your consent. This proposal for a law—and to that end, the Secretary of State is here—is what, not what others want to believe, is not for other debates, more or less ideological, that others have wanted to do. This proposal is precisely what it is possible to ensure that the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court is fulfilled, in particular with regard to the Kampala Conference, which has adopted the need to regulate the issue of the crime of aggression against States, alongside other crimes against humanity already foreseen, and those, yes, regulated and therefore likely to be applied in international and domestic legal systems. I would therefore like to tell you that, on our part, you will have our consent. The wording in particular seems to us generally well, particularly with the cautions expressed in Article 16. the -A, when he speaks in manifest violation of the Charter of the United Nations — we find this expression truly appropriate for there to be no political use — and therefore, on our part, he will deserve our consent, because he not only fulfils international commitments as he has always fulfilled the position of the CDS, which, moreover, has been a long time ago. There were Mrs and Mrss here. Members who wanted to take this debate to other places. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And, Madam Secretary of State, if I may only be allowed 30 seconds—and saying that for the CDS, what matters to the country, the government and the common people is that an international convention is actually enshrined in the Portuguese legal system—I would like to tell those who spoke at the Lages Summit that, today, who, like some, defends the regimes of North Korea and Venezuela and invites the FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) to their parties,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... who speaks of and praises Fidel Castro, Hugo Chavez, Milosevic, Arafat, Saddam Hussein and Kadhafi,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u132	Arafat was Nobel Peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u133	... may indeed be accused of complicity with this type of crime. So I would be more careful before I talked a lot about this matter. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Madam Secretary of State, returning to the essentials, we agree and we will vote in favour. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u134	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Lacão of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u135	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: In addition to the foam of some circumstantial divergence, I believe that we can all welcome the real convergence that the Government's proposal here brings us to the House. Something else wouldn't have to wait. It aims to update in the internal order the type of crimes that are now patented in the Statute of the International Criminal Court, adding the modeling of the crime of aggression, which has, as has already been recalled, become part of the list of operationalizable crimes within this international jurisdiction for the protection of human rights. We're happy! And we cannot fail to claim what historically was the Socialist Party's contribution to, in the V Constitutional Review, we were able to accept the Rome Statute, the Statute of the International Criminal Court, precisely within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic. At the same time, challenging questions were raised and I would like to remind them here: the question of extradition, insofar as it is not worth deluding — there is a sensitive question on the list of penalties of the International Criminal Court, which has to do with the possibility of the life penalty being applied to this type of crime; modelled on the possibility of the revision of that penalty and in a completely exceptional way, our Constitution has thus accepted the possibility of extradition in these cases; on the other hand, the very acceptance of the international jurisdiction of this Court in criminal matters, which has traditionally been considered as a matter of sovereignty. With this position, we have made a decisive contribution to the assessment of the international protection of human rights and, on the other hand, also with the admission of the Statute in our legal-constitutional order, we have accepted the principle of irrelevance in the status of the holders of sovereign bodies when decision makers and when they are held responsible for such crimes, which include, worth remembering, the crime of genocide, the crime against humanity, the crime of war and now fully criminalized, also the crime of aggression. in these situations, the decision-makers of the State are not covered by immunity, in particular those conferred on them by their own constitutions. This is a major step forward, but we must all realize that the International Criminal Court, within the United Nations system, does not yet have universal application because unfortunately the States that consider themselves outside the scope of this jurisdiction are still very significant. Portugal was a pioneer and wants to continue to be a pioneer and we therefore welcome the approval, which I hope will be unanimous, of the proposal which the Government has brought us here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u136	There are no further entries, to close this debate, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate around this issue took place with great tranquillity. Once again, Parliament has shown the country its sense of maturity and the capacity that you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, like all of us in Portuguese, we must be able to unite with what is right. There is no doubt that the transposition of the crime of aggression into the domestic legal order is vital in the times in which we live — absolutely vital! The Government therefore, on behalf of the Minister for Justice, would like to thank the honourable Members. Members of all the boards the sense of state they had and the ability to recognize effectively despite the differences in certain issues, the right side of history. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u138	We say goodbye to the Under-Secretary of State and Justice and to the Under-Secretary of State and Trade, and we continue with the next items on our agenda. Meanwhile, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro has the floor to report on the file entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Bill Nos 1013 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amends Article 41. the Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the cooperation procedures of employers with workers victims of domestic violence, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission; 1014 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — The repeal of Law No 45 / 2018 of 10 August 2018 — Legal regime of the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1015 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Autonomy for hiring professionals by hospitals, hospitals and local health units integrated in the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1016 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Law of Commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission ; and 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the obligation to pay interest compensation when the collection of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards ( the fourth amendment to the General Tax Law ), which falls to 10. the Commission. The Resolution Projects Nos. 1845 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Table. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable structural works to be carried out at the High School and the Basic School No. 1 of New Sales, which does not fall to the Commission ; 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government redequate the construction project of the Alvito dam in a multi-use logic of water, which does not fall to the Commission ; 1847 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Combating road sinequality, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1848 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government immediately suspend further demolition of dwellings on the island of Culatra, in particular in the nuclei of the Farol and the Hangars, which does not fall to the Commission ; 1850 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to change the protection policy of children and young people at risk, relaunched family reception as a privileged measure between placement measures, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 1851 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Paris ; 1852 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to carry out urgent work at the entrance of the village of Sagres, which does not fall to the Commission ; and 1853 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase the number of classes in association contracts in Fátima, which is not lower than the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u140	Mr Nuno Magalhães asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u141	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u142	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u143	Madam President, we have just heard the announcement that Resolution Projects Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a e 1853 / XIII / 4. a, submitted by the CDS, were not accepted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to know whether there is any basis and, with the support of Mr President-in-Office of the Republic, whether it can be provided to us, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u144	Mr Nuno Magalhães, just give us a moment to check. In the meantime, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u145	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u146	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u147	Mr President, in exactly the same terms, draft resolution No 1848 / XIII / 4. the, presented by BE, had identical information and we would also like to have access to the foundation for this decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u148	Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the proceedings in question, do not contain the basis of the President of the Assembly of the Republic for the non-acceptability of these initiatives. Yes, there are notes of the services that I will be able to distribute to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen and other benches that required it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u149	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u150	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u151	Mr President, firstly, to take good note that this is an arbitrary act by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and, secondly, to require that the notes of the services be distributed to us in that case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u152	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I will not make any considerations regarding the initial part of his speech, but I will be happy to have the notes of the services distributed to the banks that so requested, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u153	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u154	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u155	Madam President, it is to ask that they be distributed even to all banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u156	That'll be it. The service notes will be distributed to all banks. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the next item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 307 / XIII / 2. a (Margarida Vaqueiro Lopes et al.) — They request discussion on the mandatory vaccination of the National Vaccination Plan. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to congratulate the first petitioner, Margarida Vaqueiro Lopes, as well as all other signatories, and to underline one of the phrases in the petition text. Thus, it is the intention of the petitioners to "warn people to the need to vaccinate children", this concern which we obviously agree with. In fact, the Left Block, in April last year, had already presented a draft resolution that would in this sense recommend the increase of awareness campaigns for adherence to vaccination, as well as more information campaigns to leave no space to any kind of anti-active myth that may exist in Portugal, and also more information about the National Vaccination Program, both on its gratuitousness and on the vaccines that are included there, and on how people can access the same National Vaccination Program. However, we do not believe that compulsoryity is a solution. And I'm going to explain why. First, because the voluntary and conscious adherence of citizens to vaccination is preferable to compulsory. Secondly, because it was through voluntary accession to a National Vaccination Programme — robust but voluntary — that Portugal was able to obtain one of the best vaccination coverage rates in the world. In fact, in almost all vaccines, Portugal has vaccination rates around 96 %, 97 %, 98 % — and this is voluntary accession. Thirdly, because compulsory, although it seems to be a magical answer, it does not respond to certain problems. I give an example: at the last outbreak of measles, in the first half of this year, the overwhelming majority of cases of infected people were vaccinated people, they were health professionals, who even have a different vaccination scheme, have even additional reinforcements of the vaccine against measles, and were infected in it. Therefore, it seems to us that the best solutions at this time to increase the rate of vaccination coverage in Portugal, which obviously should be a goal of all, first, to study up to the vaccination schemes in certain vaccines. Perhaps, in measles, two shots no longer make sense; then let's study another three shot vaccination scheme, for example—let's study this. Secondly, it seems to us that these solutions are going to extend the National Vaccination Programme. Today, there is news for your extension to the vaccine against meningitis B, with which we fully agree. And now, the extension of the vaccine against HPV (Human Papillomavirus) also to boys to ensure a 100% vaccination coverage of the entire population. Thirdly, we stress this issue, through awareness raising, through awareness-raising campaigns to increase the voluntary and conscious adherence of the population to vaccines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u158	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioner and the others about 9500 signatories of this petition on the compulsory use of vaccines of the National Vaccination Plan. According to the petition's text, it emerges in response to anti-activation movements that, although in its legitimate space of freedom, cause the other citizens, especially in children in school context, negative externalities with potential impacts on public health, particularly in the case of diseases such as measles, some types of tuberculosis or seizure cough. The petition calls for the compulsory vaccination of children within the scope of the vaccines of the National Vaccination Plan. The subject was already discussed here in plenary in May 2017, through an agenda of the CDS and, at that time, we presented two draft resolutions: one oriented for children in school context and another oriented for adults and health professionals. In essence, together with other projects from other parties, a series of recommendations were adopted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 123 / 2017. As a result of this diploma 10 recommendations, some, in line with what Mr. Moisés Ferreira referred to, i.e. information and awareness of the benefits and benefits of vaccination, others, in the line of local articulation, in proximity, between health centres and schools, in order to signal students who have not been vaccinated, and also the agileization of mechanisms in this sense, such as, for example, the bulletin of electronic vaccines to be evaluated at school enrolment. To understand the progress of these recommendations made by the Assembly of the Republic to the Government, we asked questions both to the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of Education, but we still did not get an answer. In any case, it seems to us that, at this stage, having had this recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic and without knowing the impact that these measures may have, we believe it is early to move forward towards coercive measures, such as compulsory measures, which is why we have not presented any initiative at this time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u160	Mr António Topa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss Petition No 307 / XIII / 2. through which 9573 citizens, who have already taken advantage of to greet, asked the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the mandatory vaccinations of the National Vaccination Plan. It is true that this petition has suffered various vicissitudes as regards the number of validated subscribers, but it is interesting to acknowledge that it has finally prevailed the good sense to admit its discussion in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. But let's go to what really matters and that's the content of the petition in presence. The petitioners want to consider the mandatory vaccination of all Portuguese children. They do so knowing that Portugal has the best worldwide results in terms of vaccination against diseases, but they do not ignore the importance of constantly alerting people to the need for vaccination for children. It is that, we all know, vaccines save lives, so vaccination is not only a public health issue as an essential condition to prevent diseases such as tuberculosis, measles or convulsive cough, among many others. The PSD is, of course, sensitive to this issue and we have the fair aspirations of the petitioners. We know that what moves them is a concern about the health of Portuguese and we do not doubt that this is also one of the fundamental tasks of the State. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a good National Vaccination Programme, universal, free and accessible to the entire population living in Portugal, having already reached the target of 95 % vaccination for all vaccines evaluated up to 7 years of age. This program, which dates from the long year of 1965, is regularly reviewed and updated by the Directorate-General for Health, currently providing protection against 12 diseases, twice as much as expected in the year of its creation. However, the threats continue, as, even last year, the two measles outbreaks in our country have shown, as do some European trends that cannot be ignored. in this context, the PSD considers that Portugal cannot rely on the results achieved in the past and we do not close the door to additional legislative measures that allow our country to continue to be an international reference in public health vaccine policies. Indeed, there are social realities that cannot be epidemiologically ignored, such as in the case of human papilloma viruses and meningitis B, under the penalty of compromising the goals of the National Vaccination Programme itself. The PSD will be able to offer the contributions that the recognition of this reality imposes on it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u162	Mr Luís Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the first subscriber and all the signatories to this petition, which is precisely what has been mentioned here, i.e. the discussion of the compulsory vaccination requirements of the National Vaccination Programme. And to congratulate because the concerns emerging from this petition are also concerns of the Socialist Party. We do not want a civilizational retrogression that we have achieved over the past 50 years, the decrease in the high levels of coverage that occur, nor so little the resurgence of diseases that have been eliminated in the meantime, and much less the deprotection of children and citizens in general. But it is also good to say that, if these concerns are smaller today — and we hope they will be eliminated — much is due to what is the success of the National Vaccination Programme: to its gratuity, to its universality, to a wide network anchored in hospitals and health centres, doctors and nurses, but also in this perspective of increasing and constant updating to the introduction of new vaccines, large-scale vaccination campaigns and also specific awareness campaigns. It was precisely this programme that enabled us to achieve exceptional results in Portugal: high coverage rates, above the goals defined nationally and internationally, but above all the media that are also registered in Europe. We conclude that there is a general awareness of the importance of vaccination among Portuguese citizens. So there is one question that is at stake: if the system, in Portugal, works, a non-compulsory system, does it make sense to discuss what we are doing here today? In the opinion of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, he does. Let us take as an example the recent outbreak of measles in our country. How did the system respond to this extraordinary situation? He replied considering it an opportunity. An opportunity to strengthen the importance of vaccination, an opportunity to call all people with delayed vaccination schemes and an opportunity to implement vaccination adherence activities, especially in communities with lower coverage rates, as was the case for adults. in this case, again, the system worked. The high coverage rates and also early implementation of control measures allowed the transmission of the disease to be stopped quickly and Portugal maintained the status of the elimination of measles disease. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more curious is that from 2016 to 2017, precisely in the year in which the outbreak occurred, there was a significant increase in administered doses, about 21 % to more than 40 000 doses, most of which were precisely in the most vulnerable population. On the other hand, it is also good to say that a causal link between the mandatory vaccination and the coverage rate cannot be established. Portugal is exactly one example of this: without vaccination being compulsory, Portugal has a much higher vaccination rate than in countries where it is compulsory. In the perspective of the Socialist Party there is, of course, no dogma, the need and awareness that we must continue to water, to feed this system. It is necessary to maintain an opening perspective regarding the introduction of new vaccines, raise awareness among the population and, of course, also evaluate and monitor the outcome. Finally, Madam President, there is a reality that is unforgettable: the national vaccination plan is a success and must deserve the confidence of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I begin my speech by greeting the first petitioner and the signatories of the petition. This initiative brings to the debate, once again, in Parliament and in this plenary in particular, the problem of vaccination. It was precisely the recent outbreaks of measles that motivated this petition and, say the petitioners, it is increasingly important to alert people to the need to vaccinate children on a matter of public health. We are, in fact, in agreement with this, why the Portuguese Communist Party, already this year, and when the outbreak of measles occurred in Portugal, presented several legislative initiatives, including a draft resolution that recommended several measures that should be taken by the Government to increase and encourage awareness-raising campaigns for the importance of vaccination, and the importance of vaccination not only in children and young people but also in health professionals. It is recalled that, in the last outbreak, the health professionals were precisely those who were most affected by measles. in this sense, we accompany, strengthen, encourage and demand, including, from the Government, that these awareness campaigns continue, not only with professionals, not only with families, but also with entities, particularly with entities and institutions that accompany migrant communities, to carry out this vaccination. They also intend the petitioners, and I quote, "to consider the compulsory vaccination of all children—and only the vaccines contained in the National Vaccination Plan(...)". On this subject, we reiterate today, as we have already mentioned in the past, that we are prepared to hold this debate. I also recall that, as regards the need for a debate on this subject, the CFP submitted to the Health Committee a request for different entities and experts to be heard on these matters, hearings which have already taken place in the Commission and whose results cannot fail to warn us of the implications that compulsory should have. This obligation, which, it is said, raises questions that are not negligible and that cannot be at the source of timely but shaky legislation, and can be counterproductive to legislate in this way. Therefore, what the CFP reaffirms today, once again, is the effective need to continue to make this awareness, to increase vaccination levels in different population levels, but above all, we do not spread the need to continue this debate. We reaffirm, however, that it cannot be an impetuous debate, that we cannot legislate in a stalemate and hasty manner. This is the most accurate information we would like to leave here today, reaffirmed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u166	There are no further entries on the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u167	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u168	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u169	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u170	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u171	Madam President, in accordance with your decision to distribute the basis of the services on the decision on non-acceptance of draft resolutions, one of which from the Left Block — Draft Resolution No 1848 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — we have pointed out that this is a discretionary decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, since, specifically as regards our project, it is said by the services that suggest the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing. I would therefore point out from now on to the Bureau that, tomorrow, we will resort to the decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic to the plenary, at the time of the vote, until the quorum is properly composed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u172	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, this is not a discretionary decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. As you will remember, it was decided at the Conference of Leaders that there were two moments. The initiative has not been rejected by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, only it has not yet been decided on its discharge to the committee. There is therefore a misunderstanding in the statements now made by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u173	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u174	I will give you the floor next, Mr Nuno Magalhães. Therefore, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, it is in his area of freedom to make the appeal which he understands about this matter tomorrow, but it is good to make it clear that there has been no order or declaration of non-acceptability of the initiative by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Here is only the indication of a non-submission to the committee. It's good that this is clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u175	Madam President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u176	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u177	Mr President, in order to establish, in fact, what has happened, I would like to say that there is a failure to comply with a regiment indicating that the resolutions are indicated down to committee. It is this decision, which was taken by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, that we fail to comply with this legislative indication, which we intend to appeal to the plenary at the time when the plenary will be more composed, which is the time of tomorrow's votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u178	Mr President, it is your right, but I repeat that two moments ago. It is not a question of non-acceptability of the initiative, but of not being lower than the committee. But it is your right and you can appeal to that decision tomorrow. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u179	Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau in the same way to announce that the CDS will also resort to this decision, and I would even like that action to be decided not only, as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said, with a quorum check but also in the presence of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, who made this decision. One thing, as Mrs President has said, is that there is no admissibility and, in fact, there is no non-acceptability. What happened was the admissibility and non-permission of discussion of two CDS resolution projects, which had a note of admissibility and indication on the part of the services, down to the commission. Now, this will do the same: one can admit but not allow discussion, which is extraordinary in the House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u181	We want to say this, face to face, eye to eye, Mr President, we want quorum verification, so that this is debated, because what is at stake is democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u183	...is the initiatives of the Members to be discussed, it is that there is no censorship of anyone. We want to appeal tomorrow with a quorum check! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u184	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I am not going to repeat what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has already said. It is right for the banks to resort to the decision that was taken, but I remember what was decided at the Leaders' Conference. Nevertheless, let me tell you that it does not seem very curial to me to make such statements about the President of the House of the Republic, not being present here in the Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u185	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u186	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u187	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u188	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u189	Mr President, not wanting to prolong the debate, because of course there has been an indication from the two parliamentary groups that they want to schedule it at a time when Mr President is present, I would just like to stress something which has been reiterated by the President and which comes from the document that has been distributed to us. What we find in this document with Mr President's signature is precisely the admissibility of initiatives. No censorial judgment is involved, nor could that be admissible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u190	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u191	There are now effective scheduling rules and therefore it is not enough to deliver an initiative in DAPLEN (Field Support Division) and to say « I want to discuss this now or at a certain time».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u192	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u193	These rules were consensualized in the Conference of Leaders, with a view to rationalizing parliamentary work and the possibility that initiatives can be scheduled, prepared and discussed in a timely manner, and that is what will be on the table, of course, with the possibility of rules improved and improved. But I must say to Mr Nuno Magalhães that it was with all ease, with all honesty and loyalty that all parliamentary groups have faced the revision of these rules. Also, it is clear to everyone that there is no intention of censorship but, yes, organisational,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u194	Organizational! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u195	...to improve parliamentary work. And even I must tell you that the way in which the debates have been conducted, with the use of the new distribution of time, has actually improved our work. That is the spirit and will surely continue to be the spirit which will preside over the work, whether here or with Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u196	Mr President, the time has already exceeded what can be considered to be an appeal to the Bureau. As for the consensualization of these new rules, it is also an eligible presumption, and the honourable Member, who was present in the discussions of the Conference of Leaders, knows, but this is another discussion. However, there was a majority, let us say so, who deliberated on these new rules. I agree with you that what is contained in the procedures for the introduction of these initiatives is not a note of non-admissibility, it is only 'not low' to the committee, which is true! — it makes it impossible for you to discuss it. But the benches are free to proceed as they understand, in particular to appeal to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u197	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u198	We will continue with the sixth and last point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Petition No 427 / XIII / 3. a ( FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers ) — They call for measures to be taken in order to enhance education and its professionals, in conjunction with the Draft Resolution No 1818 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Measures to enhance education and public school workers. For the first intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes FENPROF and all petitioners now under discussion. We also welcome the struggle of teachers and educators who culminated in the great demonstration held last October 5 in defense of their rights and, in particular, of the right to full counting of service time: 9 years, 4 months and 2 days. This right is provided for and enshrined in Article 19. the State Budget Act for 2018. Time, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in respect of this right and compliance with the law by the Government. It cannot be an adjourned question nor can the solution go through the erasure of working time and, therefore, we have already announced the parliamentary assessment of the Government's decree on this matter. The CFP here will be, today and always, step by step, alongside the fair struggle of teachers and educators, as well as of all the other workers to whom the same problem arises, in defense of the full counting of the time of service. And we have no doubt that the struggle will be decisive for the resolution of the scenario that is being put in place. The petition brings us relevant questions about the need for the replacement of rights and advances that have not yet been realized, which the CFP initiative here today intends to restore on the agenda. This is the case with the undefined content to be integrated into the educational and non-formal components, in an aggravated context, in which changes in the level of inclusion, autonomy and flexibility have represented an overload of work. This situation is even more important, when we analyze the wear and aging of the teaching body in the light of the latest data. And if the steps taken by the government, at the level of the appreciation of long-contributory careers, open up prospects, they are still insufficient and remain what is right. We are still far from retirement without penalties to 40 years of service, regardless of age, and even further away from consideration of specific schemes, as is the case with teachers and educators, among others. The CFP today makes proposals in this regard. We also propose, again, the revision and profound modification of the current recruitment and mobility scheme of teaching staff, with the criteria for the annuality of the competitions, respect for professional graduation, the linkage to 3 years or 1095 days of service, the opening of vacancies to the national competition by graduated list, according to all the needs expressed by schools for full hours for 3 consecutive years, the reduction of the geographical scope of the teaching area tables. Finally, but no less important, it is necessary, and it is urgent, to review the school management regime, abandoning the old paradigm of so-called "strong leaderships" and, before, establishing the youth management that is democracy in schools, promoting a genuine participation of the educational community. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u200	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet FenPROF, all the teachers and all the teachers who signed this petition for the enhancement of education and its professionals. The portrait of the teaching class is now known: we have an aged class, only 0, 4 % of teachers are under 30 years old. No. 1. the cycle, there are 21 teachers — 21 teachers! — under 30 years of age, which naturally prevents the renewal and replacement of generations, which is so necessary for the sharing of experiences and the transmission of knowledge within schools. There is an overview of widespread burnout wear, and this is verifiable by numbers: 60% of teachers suffer from emotional exhaustion and one of the factors of wear, but it is not the only one, of course, is the issue of aging. On aging, the Left Block has presented several projects here to value the long contributing careers, which have always been plunged, but we will not give up presenting them and stopping this struggle. But there are other factors. There are questions related to the organization of teaching work and, here, with a huge priority for time-related issues, how it is considered the time that teachers spend with students, which should always be considered as leisure time, and the increase in bureaucratic load, which should be included in the non-formal component. Also on this subject, the Left Block has already presented projects, in particular one that lists measures to regulate schedules, combat wear and improve the working conditions of teachers. Nor did this project get favorable votes from the PSD and the Socialist Party, which prevented it from being approved, but that does not mean—on the contrary! — that we are going to stop demanding a timetable for teachers and teachers who respect their work and do not cause an overload, as often causes. But there are other reasons! Justice in the recruitment and mobility regime, or the lack of justice and effectiveness of that regime, also causes weariness in the teaching class. Therefore, the Left Block presented a project, taking into account the criterion of graduation as a unique criterion for ordering teachers, fairer binding criteria, the decrease of the QZP (pedagogical zone frames) and a set of other criteria that should be priority to review, in negotiation with the unions, the hiring regime of the teachers. There is an absolute and primary matter when discussing the organization of schools, which has to do with democracy and the pedagogical autonomy of teachers to do so. But there is a matter without which we cannot talk about valuing teachers. All these issues are important, but the government and Parliament are disappointed that there will be something else in this legislature that teachers feel as strongly as an attack on their professional dignity as the non-recovery of service time, i.e. the 'discharge' of 10 years of work. That is why, with regard to the career of teachers — that is the first respect to have, when you want to value a profession, that is to respect that career as it is planned and the time worked — that the Left Block has announced that it will present a parliamentary assessment, when the door is published which unilaterally foresees the recovery of only a small part of that time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u203	Do it in the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u204	We greet the teachers, we greet their struggle. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u205	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Request No 427 / XIII / 3. a and the Resolution Project No 1818 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) are combined in the proposal for measures to enhance education and its professionals. It is unquestionable that public school is the guarantor of the freedoms of teaching and learning. It was for this purpose that the current government put education at the heart of our priorities and that is why the government has made a commitment to the appreciation of the public school. After several years of strong disinvestment in public school, today we see a sustainable strengthening of investment in education, a growing normalization of procedures, a permanent dialogue with educational communities, a continuous and consistent appreciation of their professionals, a commitment to improving the quality of learning, always seeking the construction of a more inclusive, more qualified, fair public school. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u207	in an analysis attentive to the draft resolution under consideration, it should be noted that the educational and non-formal components are well based on the Statute of the Teaching Career, so the allocation of the reduction hours, which teachers acquire with the age and time of service, are used according to the functions defined for this purpose, having the organisational order of the school year sought to contribute to meet some of the claims relating to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u208	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u209	On the recruitment and mobility regime of teaching staff, mechanisms were introduced that allowed to correct some lapses resulting from successive changes, creating conditions for greater stability of the teaching body and its recruitment regime, thus providing social justice. With regard to the annuality of competitions, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that this will not serve the interests of schools, students and, of course, teachers, generating — we are right! — more instability and less predictability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u210	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u211	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u212	I recall that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented a draft of deliberations, approved in this House, requesting the National Council for Education to study in-depth on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : To value public school is to promote an inclusive school, it is to combat failure and early school dropout, it is to assign free school textbooks up to 6. the year,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u213	... is democratizing access to higher education, it is modernizing the school park. But it is also to combat precariousness, linking about 7,000 teachers and 7,000 non-teachers, through the PREVPAP(Special Regularization Program of Precarious Links in Public Administration), is to bind teachers of Music and Dance, it is to defuse careers, it is to reduce the norm-work, it is to invest in continuing training and create the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u214	For the Government and for the Socialist Party, to value public school is to bet on a school that leaves no one behind and where one learns more and better, it is to guarantee a school that promotes the training and qualification of adults, which values their professionals and combats precariousness, is to build a public school that modernises itself, it is to consolidate a public school of excellence. This is the path that we have drawn and that we continue to deepen, without demagogy, but with sustainability, with prudence, with responsibility. The government has promised and is fulfilling, and the Portuguese know - well. This is the way that makes public school a great realization of democratic Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u215	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I comply with the 14 895 subscribers to this petition by FenPROF. They aim for an urgent timing of negotiating processes, of which they are measures that they consider essential for the valorisation of education and its professionals. At the same time, the PCP draft resolution is appreciated, which—not surprisingly! — it intends to recommend the same measures. For the CDS, it is inevitable that the conditions of work and organization and operation of schools reflect on the professional performance of all those who perform their functions. However, it should be noted that teachers, in particular, do not allow any kind of dissatisfaction that interferes in their mission within the classroom. Neither the operational assistants, so little, cease to fulfil their functional obligations. But they really are many problems, timely identified repeatedly by the CDS, which affect all: teachers, technicians and employees. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] I am referring to the problems relating to careers, to the organization of work, to the specific retirement scheme, to competitions and appropriate allocations of essential staff and technicians. Recognizing and solving these problems, presenting and negotiating solutions, using data of exemption and rigour are the duties of those who protect this fundamental area. When it could be expected that the parties of the far-left — the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens — who support and give life to the socialist government, could make some difference, the truth is that, with regard to matters relating to teachers, they are limited to a mere political use.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u218	We expect a parliamentary assessment of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u219	The effort they make is minimal, the impact they have is null and simply tending to turn to public opinion the illusion that they make the difference. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u220	The fact is that they could actually make some difference if they were really interested in imposing policies that so much like to strangle in the public square with the supportive government that stands in front of the teachers' fates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u221	But are you going to ask for parliamentary approval or not? Or is it just a conversation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u222	I give two simple examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u223	Is it just conversation? Aren't you going to ask for parliamentary approval? It's just, if you don't ask, it's just talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u224	First: when it was defended that teachers should be recognized and valued, professionally and socially, this socialist government, politically calculusistically, conveyed the idea that teachers are all privileged...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u225	And the CDS didn't do that too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u226	... whose claims jeopardise the progress of the other officials and even harm the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u227	Where did you see that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u228	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u229	And what did the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens do? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u230	Well remembered! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u231	They let the tide of wrong ideas spread. It was from the CDS the only voice that rose in defense of the teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u232	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u233	... that he restored the truth and did it with rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u234	What truth? Oh, my God! The 30,000 you fired? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u235	The second example is a purely hypocrisy example. [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u236	Listen, listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u237	The Left Block, the PCP and the Greens appear to cry out for compliance with Article 19. the State budget, as regards the mode and time limit of the counting of the time of service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u238	And the CDS was good at doing the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u239	...but it is clear that they do not fight effectively for their compliance with a government that depends on them to govern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u240	What does the CDS stand for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u241	It can be seen that, on the subject, they have recently stated...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u242	What does the CDS stand for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u243	... that this is a matter that will not be included in the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u244	Imagine!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u245	However, 20 days earlier, they had ensured that they would only approve the State Budget if there were money to count all the time of service frozen to the teachers. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u246	One more walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u247	We're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u248	You're lying! Look at him being a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u249	On the other hand, the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u250	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u251	I'm done now, Madam President. On the other hand, the CDS has assumed a responsible position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u252	What's the position? What are you defending?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u253	... demanding from the Government the submission to Parliament of the necessary data to fully assess the cost of counting the time of service provided by teachers — all the time! — and other variables that condition it. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u254	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u255	There is no other way for transparent, reliable and sustainable positioning. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] So, Mr. Members of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens only ask: how long will the teachers continue to delude? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u256	Take a good look! For the CDS there was no thawing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u257	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u258	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u259	Madam President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u260	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u261	Mr President, through you, I would like you to be asked by Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo to distribute the documentary evidence that the Government has stated that the Portuguese teachers are privileged. We do not know that this has happened and therefore we request that proof be distributed through it that this has been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u262	Mr Porfirio Silva, we are in a political debate. If Mrs. Ilda Araújo New has this documentation available, you can do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u263	It's only "hundred and thirty-one mouths"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u264	... but I remember that we are in a political debate and, therefore, the statements are with those who do them, in each of the benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u265	The CDS intervenes on the basis of the ‘hundred and thirty-one mouth’!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u266	Lying is very ugly, Mrs. Ilda Araújo New!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u267	Open a good precedent, Mr Porfirio Silva! You're gonna start having an interview once a day! Open an excellent precedent!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Germana Rocha. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would create conditions so that you could intervene. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group the approximately 15 000 signatories to this petition, submitted by FENPROF, here present and to whom I also greet. The petition under discussion is aimed at valuing education and its professionals and this appreciation can only really happen when we treat them with the truth and responsibility they impose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u271	And this is what has not happened with this government coalition, which cheats and deceives these professionals, because it creates their expectations, promising teachers respect for their careers, including the real counting of their time of service, and now comes up with the statement for not saying, saying that after all, it has come to the conclusion that it does not have the means to meet their commitments, deliberately misleading the teaching class.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u272	Irresponsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u273	Now, this is more or less the same thing that someone throws himself into the sea without first making sure whether or not he knows how to swim. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u274	Interestingly, at a time when all the parties on the left sit at the table to negotiate the State Budget for 2019 and that do not comply with the 2018 State Budget, which they themselves have approved, this Government abandons the negotiations and decides unilaterally the counting of the time of service here concerned,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u275	... desvaluing up to the resolutions adopted by this Parliament, as it was revealed yesterday in the debate with the Prime Minister for the fortnight. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, devaluing the workers in the education sector is also advancing with an extraordinary regularization program of the precarious links of the truly misleading public administration for these same workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u276	He's a cheater! A fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u277	... and do not present a single concrete proposal to resolve the issue of wear and aging of the teaching class, widely recognized by all. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Since they like to talk about the past so much, sirs. Members, it is good to remember that those who revoked the special retirement scheme for the teaching class and began the freezing of teachers' careers were during the socialist government led by the Eng. José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u278	It's true! [[Well remembered!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u279	Socialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u280	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is something that, sooner or later, always comes to the top is the truth. And the truth is that there is a need for seriousness, weighting, coherence and responsibility both in negotiations and in decisions not to deceive, nor to delude, the professionals of an important sector as is that of education, which has a decisive role in the development of our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u281	What is the PSD position? Oh, my God! After 3 minutes, I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u282	It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u283	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Listening now to the interventions of the CDS and the PSD and the discharge... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... to say that you cannot devalue the workers of education—and it is not by principle not to be correct, because it is, indeed— it is good to remember what your governance was, where there was a brutal devaluation of all the workers of education. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Let us, for example, to the question of teachers, who, if you remember, were invited to emigrate and also, if you remember, there were measures such as curricular reviews or reduction of the number of classroom students to send teachers to the street. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the freezing of career progression, does this not tell you anything? Oh, my God! Wage cuts, doesn't this tell you anything? Oh, my God! You have brutally disrespected the workers of education and it is good not to forget this. Now that we've reached this legislature, is everything all right? Don't! [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u285	And the teachers say this right here, in this petition they delivered in the Assembly of the Republic — and the word of the Greens naturally goes, firstly, for a great greeting to all the subscribers of this petition and, in particular, to the National Federation of Teachers, who launched it. They call attention to specific problems with which education, their professionals and teachers in particular face, namely the freezing of careers, the time of service accomplished but not counted, wear and aging, precarious work, professional instability and overload at work, the physical and mental exhaustion of so many teachers, and also for the question of the necessary democracy in school management and the threat of municipalization of education. I mean, I was stunned by the intervention of the Socialist Party's Member,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... that, on the subject of democratic management, it considers that it is destabilizing schools and does not serve that matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u286	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u287	At least that's what I realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u288	You haven't heard our speeches properly! You have to go listen to the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u289	So in that case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to rectify this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u290	Don't! It's good to hear well, it's not rectification, because you didn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u291	...because, probably, as I have heard, many other people may have heard and it is good to correct this matter. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] But more than correcting this matter, the important thing is to actually implement democratic management in schools. This is important in our perspective. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party Porfírio Silva, who is so exalted, I must say that I do not remember listening to the Socialist Party's intervention on matters relating to the freezing of career progression and the counting of all the time of service. I don't remember hearing, but eventually...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u292	But isn't that coming to the petition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u293	It comes in the petition and it is important that the Socialist Party also pronounce itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u294	We pronounce ourselves on what is in the petition!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u295	And why is it more important? Because the Socialist Party approved a draft resolution which the Greens presented in the Assembly of the Republic and which determined the counting of all the time of service. This draft resolution was adopted and therefore resulted in a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the Socialist Party also put pressure on the government... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u296	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u297	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, it is important that the Socialist Party also put pressure on the government just to ensure that the whole time of service is accounted for. It is important, in view of the unilateral, stubborn and arrogant position that the Government is taking before the teachers in this matter,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u298	... that the Socialist Party also joins with other voices here, in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular the Greens, to pressure the Government to make this time of service an effective reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u299	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u300	It is of the most fundamental justice, and in this sense we all have that responsibility. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u301	Now, for a real challenge to the ability to synthesize, because it has one second to intervene, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u302	Madam President, I will try to conclude this intervention on the margin of tolerance of the other parliamentary groups. The question we are discussing here is how each of the parliamentary groups will vote on these proposals which the CFP has tabled today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u303	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u304	This will be a good proof for us to understand who is and who is not effectively on the side of the teachers and on the side of the defense of their rights. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD and PS MP Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u305	So we are going to solve the problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, specifically the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party are or are they not solving the problems of hours and educational and non-formal components? They're not! There are still problems to solve. [[PS protests.]] Are the problems of wear and rejuvenation of teachers solved or not? They're not! They need to be solved. Are the problems raised at the level of competitions resolved or not every year? They're not solved, they need to be. After all, do you want to promote democracy in schools or not? We want it! Finally, any serious commitment to the valorization of public school, teachers and educators must even pass through the counting of service time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u306	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u307	In fact, the petition speaks of the defrosting of careers,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u308	Speak! Speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u309	...because at the time she was submitted, the government's intention to make that decree-law that she published was not yet realized...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u310	But the thawing was done, it wasn't! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u311	... and for which the CFP has already submitted the request for parliamentary approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u312	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u313	I'm done, Madam President. The lack of a solution from the government to address these problems gives arguments precisely to the PSD and the CDS to come to attack the public school, as they did today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u314	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u315	This is not the way the CFP proposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u316	All right! [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u317	What we propose is the appreciation of the public school and its workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u318	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u319	...and for that we know that we don't count on PSD and CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-11.u320	This concludes this sixth and last item on our agenda. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. with a PCP marking, the discussion of the Draft Resolution No 1808 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage and statutory votes at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours.]]
