ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. Let's start our work. [[It was 9 hours and 35 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority will be in favour of determining the opening of the galleries. Mrs. Members, as you know, we have an extensive agenda for this morning and, from the first point of view, there is a current debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on the situation of health professionals in the National Health Service ( SNS ). I believe that we are in a position to start this debate, so I have the floor for the opening talk, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : There is no National Health Service without professionals. It was the professionals who built the SNS and they are who, every day, with their work and dedication, allow the SNS to provide quality health care and do not make themselves feel any more acutely the evils that have been inflicted on it by successive right-wing governments. So from here we greet all the workers of the National Health Service, their commitment to their defense and the struggles they are fighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u4	Despite this importance, the reality shows that many health professionals are missing: operational assistants, technical assistants, superior health technicians, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, nurses and doctors. From north to south of the country, there would be many examples we could give, but we'll just list a few. In the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, the shortage of operational assistants is such that these professionals are forced to work 12 days without strike; in the University Hospital Center of Algarve are missing between 90 and 100 operational assistants. Nurses are also missing: only in the Hospital de São João are missing 158 ; in the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center are missing 60 ; in the Local Health Unit of North Alentejano there are 150 ; in the Hospital and University Center of Coimbra there are 300 ; and in the Guard there are 160. As for the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy and the superior health technicians, deficiency is expressive both in hospital care and primary care, as happens, for example, in the Lagoa Health Center : in this health unit there are no speech therapists, occupational workers and nutritionists. Also in relation to doctors there is a shortage, as happens in the pediatrics of the hospital of Évora, in various services of the Hospital do Litoral Alentejano and in the services of psychiatry, cardiology, surgery and orthopaedics of the hospital of Barcelos. The lack of professionals does not only reach the SNS, equally affects the Institute of Medical Emergency : in this Institute, more than 300 workers are missing. The shortage of professionals increases the pace of work, causes tiredness, exhaustion and demotivation, as well as leads to the reduction of professionals per shift, causing the provision of health care, increases the waiting time for consultations and surgeries and is reflected in the number of users without a doctor and a family nurse. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that there is no National Health Service without professionals, it is no less true that it is not enough to have them, they must be valued professionally and socially. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u5	Social appreciation goes through the integration of professionals in careers and with public ties, the increase in wages and the existence of conditions of professional development. However, these dimensions delay to be realized and to be implemented, as well as they know and feel, among others, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, doctors and technical and operational assistants. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was the struggle that defeated the PSD Government and the CDS and allowed the change of correlations of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, interrupting the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, of destruction of the social functions of the State and, consequently, of the National Health Service, of attack on workers' rights. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] The fight that is being waged by health professionals — doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, operational and technical assistants — is intended to defend and conquer rights and, at the same time, to defend the SNS and users. The various health professionals claim essentially the value of careers and their wage grids, the defrosting of career progressions and the hiring of professionals. The PS Government cannot continue to delay negotiations with the representative structures of workers and to take measures to respond to the fair demands of all health professionals. Every day that the PS Government postpones the realization of the fair demands of health professionals is another day when it contributes to the weakening and decrease of public response. Each day on which the PS Government postpones the realization of career development, progress in progress and increase in remuneration is another day when it contributes to the abandonment and extemporaneous exits of many SNS professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u6	It's your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u7	There are no further delays, there is an urgent need to reverse the course! What is required is the hiring of professionals and the integration of all professionals with individual employment contracts into public employment contracts and the corresponding integration into a career with public ties. What is required is the clear, untempered bet on the professional, social and remuneration valorization of all health professionals. All of these measures call for a break with the right-wing policy and the options of the PS and its Government, in particular that of submitting to the European Union and the euro tax on the accelerated reduction of the deficit. The option must be to solve the problems of people, health professionals and the National Health Service. It's with these options that the PCP is compromised, that's why they work every day. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u8	Mr Adalberto Campos Fernandes spoke for one speech, which I welcome, as well as the other members of the Government present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Carla Cruz : We want to signal the importance of the opportunity of this current debate, and from a political point of view, we are doing so here, with my team, with the State Secretaries, because we understand, as the honourable Member said, that the main activity of the National Health Service is the professionals. But, Madam Member, we have also acknowledged the seriousness of the PCP speech well because it has always recognized the progress, it has always recognized that we are different from what we were two and a half years ago. The only difference between us, Mrs. Member, has been in terms of speed and intensity, but you will understand that a ruler naturally fulfills the interests of the workers and professionals of the SNS, it is necessary to defend the SNS, but first of all it is in order to defend the whole of the country and the national interest. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you: how is it that some, especially those who, in fact, have been ill with the rights of the workers, with the strikes, those who have rebelled and revolted against the rapid application of the remuneration replacement, those who actually thought that the 35 hours were the evil of the world, are now referring to this 'polytic', based on the research of a search engine, to see what the demanding agenda of the day gives... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and then do the cynical exercise to pour « crocodile tears», testing a rag to defend the interests of workers, when, in an incomprehensible drift, we thought we had already exceeded, they say, in week one, that the budget surplus should be used to increase public officials and, in week two, that it is better to keep that surplus and not to increase public officials. How can public servants believe these people? You can't, Mrs. Deputy. We do a serious exercise, and the seriousness has to do with this fact: today we have more 8000 professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u10	Exactly! That's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u11	... we resolved the question of the careers of hospital pharmacists, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, we resolved much of the demanding agenda of doctors and nurses and yesterday was published the pay supplement for specialist nurses. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mrs Carla Cruz, the facts are these and we will continue to be determined to fight so that the main asset of the SNS, which are effectively the professionals, is achieved. But we will talk with the PCP, as we have always done, on the basis that, on this matter, what we think is very close, is the same, but in terms of speed and intensity, what we think is different. What we do not understand nor can we accept is populist opportunism, is, if you want, this populist frenzy that attacked the same ones that, two years ago, had a speech in a mirror and now, suddenly, "remov garments", showing distress by the agenda of the day, by today's strike, to make a media number here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u12	That's the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u13	To request clarification from the Minister of Health, Mr António Sales of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, the Socialist Party and the Government are before the National Health Service with a position of responsibility and coherence. And the proof of this coherence is that, about two months ago, we voted and approved, mostly, a set of recommendations made by the CFP through a draft resolution, which pointed out a series of improvement measures for the National Health Service. While the Socialist Party voted in favour, the PSD, which today stands tow this debate, voted against these same recommendations, not presenting any alternative proposal, as is indeed its concern in recent times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u15	Well remembered! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u16	The PSD, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, votes against what it defends in the remaining days of the week in accordance with its political interests of the moment and its agenda of circumstance. It's a real drifting boat, in the taste of political opportunity. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u17	The PSD has no proposals, no ideas and no solutions. [[PSD protests.]] It is limited to going to the trailer of demanding agendas that are imposed on it, either by the media or by corporations, or perhaps even have a hidden agenda—it is known there! — which goes through the minimization and privatization of the National Health Service, recalling very recent times. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, what we heard here today, following the last half-year debate, was the translation of the current state of health of the PSD: a PSD on the edge of intensive care, which cannot make a proposal, manifest an idea or present a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u20	The PSD hasn't even spoken yet! That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u21	With regard to the CFP, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, negotiating does not mean giving in but, yes, establishing commitments between the parties. That is what we did when, two months ago, we approved your draft resolution and that is what we are doing today, when, in a responsible way, we assume that it is not all right and that, therefore, we need to work daily to improve many of the current conditions of the National Health Service, to respect the fair ambitions of the professional classes and gradually and progressively to meet those who are their legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u22	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u23	I ask you, Mr Minister, whether, in the current framework of budgetary rigour and social responsibility, is the government now in a position to restart a scheduled negotiation with the different professional classes, in accordance with its legitimate expectations? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u24	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u25	Mr President, Mr António Sales, it is obvious that the answer can be no other than yes, that this is being done. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Despite the exaltation and irritation of some benches, which try to hide reality by playing the game of perception, with all professional groups there are negotiating tables: with nurses, with diagnostic technicians, with general careers—with whom we signed a historic agreement last Friday—with hospital pharmacists. Work is going to be done with a sense of state and it will not be for more or less screaming and for more or less exaltation—of those who, in their bad memory, see their great enormity — that we will no longer continue, respecting health workers, respecting the SNS, in a framework of state stability and public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u26	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It ended yesterday, at midnight, a three-day period of medical strike,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u28	Strike? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u29	... in March there were strikes of nurses and there are new protests marked for May. At the beginning of May the operational assistants were on strike and there was also a strike marked for the 24 and 25 days, by the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. What do all these strikes have in common? What unites all these professionals? They are against the Minister of Health and say that the policy that is being pursued is clearly insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u30	They're political cases!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u31	They're ungrateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u32	The professionals accuse us of making negotiations a simulation, not taking them to the end or breaking them unilaterally. They accuse you, Mr Minister, of commitment and failure to comply, of not investing and of not hiring professionals that the National Health Service needs. And you know what? The professionals are right! They are right in their strikes and demands; they are right when they require more professionals for hospitals and health centres;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u33	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u34	... are right when they say there can be no delay in competitions; they are right when they demand careers; they are right when they defend the users. Who is not right is Mr. Minister, because he continues to deny superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians the transition to a decent career, because he continues to protrude negotiations with nurses and not hire the required nurses, because he continues to promote medical indifference and because he continues to say that it is all Centeno, when being Centeno is to be contrary to the National Health Service. It is not enough to say that you agree with the demands of the professionals and then kick to the corner and say that you have no resources, after all, until it is true, Mr Minister. So what about the EUR 800 million that Mr. Minister and the government decided to break up at 0, 4 percentage points of the deficit when they could invest in the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u36	And the more than 100 million euros spent on companies and jobs in the SNS when could it be hiring? Oh, my God! And the hundreds of millions that channel to private health business, who continues to feed? Oh, my God! It is not true that there are no resources, but it is true that there are options and the truth is that the options of the Minister are clearly following the wrong path. Mr Minister, let me tell you that professionals and users are also right when they say their policy begins to seem too much like the policy of the previous government. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u37	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u38	And this is the most dangerous way to the National Health Service. Being Centeno is not the way to the National Health Service, being PSD and CDS is not the way to the National Health Service, as it is certainly not the way that Mr. Minister is following. There are children and newborns without family doctors, largely because they have protected the launch of contests for the hiring of family doctors. There are problems in the oncology service of the Hospital de Santa Maria and the Minister is out of any negotiation to define, for example, the pediatric network in Porto. And it is very serious to have a Minister of Finance deciding the health options in Portugal! It's very serious! So, Minister, the question is: how will it be now? Are you going to defend the National Health Service or not? Are you going to hire the missing nurses and finally launch the review of their career? Are you going to meet the doctors' demands? Will you invest in the National Health Service? Will it provide conditions for reducing waiting lists? Are you going to fight medical indifference? Will you respect the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy and provide them with the transition to a career with decent wages or will you maintain the low wage policy with these professionals? Are you finally going to invest or are you going to proclaim yourself a centeno again? Will you be the Minister of Health or will you continue to let him be the Minister of Finance negotiating health policies for our country? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u39	That was not a question, it was an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u40	Now you have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time the Portuguese Communist Party has scheduled this debate, because health remains a very current matter and with every opportunity. The news happens and the cases accumulate. In fact, the situation in which many health services are found in the National Health Service is unfortunately very little recommended. It is not, in fact, advisable because many of these services are in a situation that even threatens to break down. We know that it is not a problem today, we well know that the situation that is now in many health services ends up as a result of structural insufficiency, because, in fact, if the lack of SNS response is visible today, it is also visible that this is a direct consequence of the political options of several governments that over the decades have literally marginalized the area of health, in all policies and even to the level of social policies. in this context, it is important to remember the closure of health services, the reduction of beds and health professionals and the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals, which, coming from behind, reached all limits with the previous government. If it is true that the current government is beginning to delay taking measures to give effective answers to all the problems that are currently living in health, it is also true that the policies of the former Government, the PSD Government and the CDS, have played an absolutely central role in the worsening of health problems and have greatly contributed to today's ruin situation and to the situation in which we are dealing with health professionals. In this regard, it is recalled that by the hand of the PSD/CDS government, health lost more than 7000 professionals, which, of course, has aggravated the response capacity in both the health centres and hospitals of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u42	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u43	And as much as it costs some, the truth is that some steps have already been taken to counter or at least to block these policies, which have left health absolutely fragile, and weakened as never before.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u45	However, today we have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in several areas. But there is still much to do, when we talk about health, and at all levels, and therefore there is also much to do about health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is certainly not necessary to make a great effort to realize that the lack of human resources in the field of health is seriously challenging the provision of health care and to further weaken the capacity of the National Health Service to respond to the needs of Portuguese. More: this visible increase in the lack of human resources is still raising serious risks, with regard to physical and psychological health of health professionals themselves, which are thus confronted with truly hallucinating working rhythms or with excessive recourse to extraordinary hours, so often without any compensation. In addition, it is still necessary to bear in mind the sharp degradation of workers' rights, which the Government delays in giving the appropriate response. We are talking about such matters as the destruction of the public bond or the degradation of occupational careers of health workers, not to mention the abuse of contractual precariousness, which continues to be a file used through the most varied forms, such as the use of green receipts, the recruitment on time, the termination of contracts, and so on. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] These are situations that, in addition to being dragged and beyond dragging in time falsehoods in labor relations, are grossly illegal, a matter on which, in fact, the State should set the example. But it is also necessary to integrate all workers with individual employment contracts into public employment contracts, with their integration into a career with public ties. Therefore, Minister, we can make the rounds we want, but the professional appreciation and remuneration of health professionals is absolutely essential for the survival of the National Health Service itself with the standard that Portuguese deserve, because, in fact, without health professionals there is no health, without professionals there is no National Health Service and without respect for those who work there are no professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u46	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, Members of the Government : The Minister for Health has now spoken about the importance of seriousness in politics. In view of the disqualification in which the National Health Service is installed, the only serious attitude that could be expected of the Minister of Health was his resignation today, here and now. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u48	It's so ridiculous that it even hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u49	Three years ago, the Socialist Party promised, in the electoral campaign, that it would end austerity and that health would be a priority in its governance. Having returned two and a half years of socialist governance, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, what you live and feel in hospitals and health centers in our country is precisely the opposite, a genuine disinvestment in the National Health Service. In fact, as a doctor, I have no memory of such rapid degradation of health services and such a marked wear on our professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u50	When it makes you feel good, they invoke the quality of professionals, but it's only when it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u51	I therefore associate myself with professional health colleagues throughout the country who have joined the SNS in Black movement, in which they dress black every Friday, as today, of mourning and in struggle for our public health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u52	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u53	It is a movement that was born from the bases of the National Health Service, without any party or union origin. They are professionals who, like me, consider that the National Health Service is the greatest legacy of Portuguese democracy and do not accept that the government continues the path of its destruction. It is in health that propaganda attempts and government lies have short legs. The rulers may deceive some people for a while, but they can't always fool everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u55	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost everything has worsened in the National Health Service in recent years. It increased investment in facilities and equipment with a fall of almost 30 % compared to 2015. From Faro to Gaia, from Coimbra to Funchal, we find examples behind examples of investment needs that the government does not meet, despite the vain promises of the past. They have worsened the waiting times, with patients having to wait at times more than 1000 days — three years — for a simple hospital consultation. They have worsened waiting lists for surgeries, with the worst average waiting times since 2010. It worsened the pre-hospital medical emergency and worsened the treatment conditions of patients. There is a lack of clinical consumption material and medicines in hospitals, delay in access to diagnostic examinations and, as a result, Portuguese are increasingly ill. The gentlemen who rule over us have turned the National Health Service into a national disease service...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u56	You don't believe that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u57	... and where the degradation of the National Health Service, now managed by PS, PCP and the Left Block, becomes even more serious and revolting in the area of oncology. in this area, today's reality is the unworthy treatment of children with cancer, treated in the corridors of the Hospital de São João, a situation that, unbelievably, remains, having already been exceeded the deadline that the government itself had stipulated for the situation to be unlocked.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u58	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u59	One more lie from the government, another unacceptable shame from those who do not honour his word: given word, pierced word, and the sick who endure! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u60	What was your contribution?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u61	All of this happens two and a half years of governance, two and a half years of this government being in office. And all this is simply unacceptable! The lack of doctors, especially within the country, is grueling. The chronic lack of nurses, technicians and assistants continues, despite the promises, and the fact is that the professionals so far hired are insufficient to cover the new 35-hour contracts, to which the promises of wage strengthening of the professionals are added, which are a mere illusion. A recent specialist doctor, after 15 years of training, receives as a salary, as an example, a value lower than the mere travel allowance that one Member, elected by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, receives from this Assembly of the Republic. It is a totally unacceptable situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u62	Why won't you treat patients? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u63	In the face of this escalation, the strike ends up being the last cut, the last desperate resource of thousands of health professionals. The Minister of Health no longer exists, as the news shows today. And the Minister of Finance, who took the Ministry of Health of Assault, is only and only focused on meeting a deficit below what is stipulated by Europe — as part of his personal campaign to reach the Commissioner’s place — to reduce the deficit cost what it costs, to the health of the Portuguese. The Minister of Health is today a mere finance delegate and if the Minister of Finance has a loose net to destroy the National Health Service daily, it is because we have an irresponsible Prime Minister who allows it, who assists impatience and smiles the progressive degradation of services and the dissatisfaction of professionals, without saying anything, without doing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u64	Mr. Deputies is irresponsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u65	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. It is clear today that for Prime Minister Antonio Costa health is not a priority. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I wanted to say that, almost one year after the end of the legislature, no matter what I do, it is already late for this government to reverse its legacy of degradation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u67	Sir, I have already appealed to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. This is why it is time to prepare for the future, a future in which our country can have a government that values professionals, who truly bet on prevention, who bet on health care of proximity and quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u69	Mr President, you cannot continue because we have a very extensive agenda and the tolerance of the Bureau has already been significant. I do ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, a future that can only be achieved with the change of this government, a future that can only be achieved with a government of the Democratic Social Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u71	We naturally ask for the understanding of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an extensive agenda, as we all know. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate Mr Health Minister and his team and say that it is indeed very important that we be here once again to talk about health, in which area the CDS has not stopped alerting to problems for two years. In fact, what we have to talk about today is the dissatisfaction of the professionals, a grueling dissatisfaction with the lack of respect of this team, in order to negotiate, attend and listen to the professionals, professionals we want today, here, to pay tribute, for their resilience, for their courage, for their dedication to the National Health Service. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Perhaps you will tell the Minister that you are ungrateful professionals and will ask whether you complain, when you are tired of announcing that everything was better. I would like to recall here that Mr. Prime Minister may well, in each fortnight debate and in response to questions from the President of our Health Party, repeat the mantra that has already been invoked here today, on the hiring of more health professionals, on the improvement in the National Health Service, on the fact that access has improved. Yes, this mantra can in fact protect Mr. Prime Minister, but it does not protect either professionals or Portuguese and, more importantly, no one already believes. Therefore, I wanted to say that it is not possible to hide another painful reality, which is that we have an increase in waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, lack of access to family doctors, lack of investment in valuing and hiring professionals. The reality of the lack of professionals is shocking, Mr Minister, and unfortunately we have to talk about the reality of pediatric oncology and oncology, because they are areas of enormous vulnerability, where there is now the lack of investment by this government. And, moreover, we have to talk about what we have announced, which is the huge garrote that finances have imposed on the National Health Service and the devaluration and minimization that is made of the health of Portuguese people. What will the PCP do and what will the Left Block do after today's debate here? What are you going to say to the strike doctors? Are you going to say they're actually supporting you? But where, if they then value and enable the policies of this government? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u73	We are very tired of seeing the inconsistencies of the PCP and the Left Block, which will certainly not leave here to present a motion of censure to this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u74	The CDS will be released for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u75	In conclusion, what we really wanted was to call on the Minister to resolve these problems and to call on the CFP and the Left Block to bring them into line with what they have here to demand, with purely artificial maneuvers, since then they are in line with the policies of this Government. We also wanted to make an appeal to those who are truly responsible for health, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister Centeno, who, with his sarcastic smile, is no longer doing anything but penalizing the health of Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, we wanted to appeal to the Minister of Health. I have told you several times, eyes in your eyes, and today I am telling you, Minister, from here on in this gallery: we need you to be Minister of Health, we do not need you to be Centeno, and we need to have a prime minister and a finance minister who does not lower the health of Portuguese professionals in this way. We really need to have a different government and new health policies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u76	Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u77	Mr President, Minister : This PSD and this CDS are right next to intensive care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u78	If they exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u79	Mr Minister, has there been any government in the last 20 years that had placed 94% of the Portuguese population with a family doctor and with the commitment of full coverage until the end of the legislature? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u80	Forget what they cut in health!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u81	Mr Minister, has there been any government in the last 20 years that would allow the moderate rates to be lowered by more than 24 % and at the same time increase the number of exempt users? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u82	Tell that to the Portuguese! Tell them you believe what you say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u83	Mr Minister, has there been any government in the last 20 years that had recorded such an important investment in innovative drugs and made such an important investment in more 8500 new professionals? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u84	You've cut too much! That was the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u85	Was there any government in the last 20 years that had made such a strong bet on the integrated continuous care network, opening more than 1500 beds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u86	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u87	There was a government in the last 20 years that had made an effort to restore wages, to restore the value of extraordinary hours, to restore new careers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u88	That's all you guys cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u89	... of superior diagnostic technicians, the special career of pre-hospital emergency technicians and the hospital pharmaceutical career? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u90	It's boring to always remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u91	I ask you, Mr Minister, to conclude whether we are in fact better than in 2015 and whether economic growth, budgetary rigour and the balance of public finances are good advisers for a healthier National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u92	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u93	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I can not fail to refer here to the interventions we have heard today, the PSD and the CDS, because what we have identified is that they want a way to continue to attack the National Health Service to discredit it and benefit the private interests that exist in health, business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u95	That's what they showed! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u96	Not at all! It's just fantasy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u97	What they want to do is to continue doing exactly what they did four years ago, when they were in the government, which were political options that aimed at dismantling the National Health Service. Mr Minister, we know that the problems that exist in the National Health Service are structural, they are not today, they are problems that have come from a long time ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u99	... and in which PSD and CDS have a huge responsibility, but there are problems that require an answer. In his speech today, he said that what divides us was the speed and intensity of the measures to be taken, but it is not the speed and intensity; he also said, some days ago, that it is not possible to solve everything at the same time. Mr. Minister, when there are high waiting times in access to consultations and surgeries, when there are closed beds in hospitals, because there are no health professionals, when there is a break in the operation of services, we are not talking about speed or intensity, we are talking about specific problems that affect users and health professionals and that require effective answers to them. It is not possible to hire more health professionals, but when there is a problem with the bank, there is sufficient assipio and there is full availability to respond. It is not possible to value the careers of health professionals, but it is possible to maintain the obsession with the deficit. It is not possible to ensure adequate working conditions for professionals, but it is possible, year after year, to transfer millions and millions of euros of debt interest, because it insists on not wanting to renegotiate it. So we are not faced with a problem of not having conditions, we are facing a problem of political options,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u101	... and what is required is to value the social functions of the State and invest in the National Health Service, with the public resources we have and that should be invested exactly in the National Health Service. The example we know today, regarding the Hospital de São João, with all these contacts by the Ministry of Finance, demonstrates exactly this, that the priority is this obsession with the deficit rather than the National Health Service. But, Mr Minister, there are concrete answers that have to be given and one of these answers is precisely related to the social and professional appreciation of the professionals of the National Health Service, which is fundamental to improving quality and the provision of quality health care to users. It is precisely due to the continuation of the devaluation that many professionals feel demotivated, and we see their discontent in the set of fighting actions that have already been marked and are currently underway. This devaluation is leading to the continued abandonment of the National Health Service. But this devaluation is also seen, in particular, at the level of medical boarding, in particular, and in fact means a devaluation of medical training, a devaluation of medical careers, but also a loss to the National Health Service, a loss to these professionals, undermining their expectations, and a loss also to the National Health Service itself, because what we need is the qualification of the professionals themselves. There are precise answers, Minister, with regard to the replacement of workers. There are workers who are long gone and are not being replaced, which is creating problems in the services. There are workers who tell us that they know the time of entry, but they don't know the time of departure, that they finish their work and they have to do one more because they have no answer. There are, in fact, a set of concrete issues that professionals, users and we, PCP have come to put and demand the same answer. Now, Minister, with regard to the emergency plan of the National Health Service that we have proposed, and what has been approved in the Assembly of the Republic, what is its level of implementation? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the electronic picture, it is evident that there is still some availability of time for intervention. I ask the parliamentary groups if they wish to use the floor. [[Pause.]] This is not the case, and the time reserved is for the government to intervene, firstly, and for the closure of the CFP, in the time it still has, if it so agrees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u103	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u104	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u105	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u106	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u107	Mr President, would I have misunderstood, or has the President just said that the closing time was reserved for the government and the CFP? If it is reserved for the CFP, of course, because that was the agreement of the Conference of Leaders, but there is no agreement on the government, it is a matter of registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u108	I accept your criterion, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u109	It's not mine, it's from the Conference, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u110	Yes, sir. In any case, what the Bureau has to report is what it has already reported, i.e. at the moment, there are no requests for a word. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, the Minister of Health has written down, so you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, in my final speech, I would like to reaffirm, before Parliament and the country, the commitment to do everything to ensure that health professionals continue their journey, which, in the last two years, has no comparison with the last decades, of valorization and respect, because they are the ones who effectively build the National Health Service every day. Mrs Paula Santos, the problem is not the strategic understanding of what we think should be the SNS. The concern is that what can be done in the short term may affect the medium and long term, either in terms of SNS or in terms of the conditions of the State and the Republic themselves. The problem is to see, in a debate like this, in which serious issues are discussed, some parties to campaign and parties with very serious responsibilities in the situation we have to manage today. What we saw here was the top of a PSD member to talk about perceptions, ignoring reality, lying. And he lied several times, Mrs. Deputy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You lied, when you said the average guaranteed response times were worse. It's a lie, Mrs. Member! He lied, when he said that the conditions for access to the SNS were worse than two years ago. It's a lie! You just didn't lie to something, Mrs. Member, when you actually told what the PSD was coming to, that it was « vote on us, because we now disguise ourselves,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...we have now ceased to be the grieved soul to be the soul mobilized around the workers». Mrs. Member, cynicism has limits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u112	Cynic is you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u113	...Demagogy has limits, populism and catavism have limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u114	Tell that to the families of people with cancer! She's cynical and hypocritical!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u115	Mr President, we are committed to taking care of the response to Portuguese people who need health care in good time, to value the work of professionals, to improve access to SNS every day. For what we are not available, it is in fact to enter into dialogues of lies, populism, falsehood with those who have, only and only, the fake agenda now if they make friends of the workers and the SNS, so that, if in the short term, they come to take power, try their old model of transforming the SNS into a huge private service army, in which the State will limit itself only and only funding. That's it, we don't want it, Mrs. Deputy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u116	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u117	Mr President, Minister of Health, in fact, I would say that what we are seeing here today is disappointing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u119	Sorry is your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u120	...because it's a little bit more of the same, almost a conversation of deaf beyond reasonable. People who are sick deserved more! What Mr. Minister comes here to do is promises and announcements. He is here to justify a government that treats you very badly, let me tell you, Mr Minister of Health, that he is here to justify Mr Finance and Mr Prime Minister and, in this painful way, that he does not respond to the people on the waiting list, it is not to respond to cancer patients who expect more than the reasonable one, it is not to respond to the desperate families, what he does is politicism, attacking the opposition and not presenting answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u121	Exactly! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u122	This is beyond reasonable, this is despondent! So we are again insisting that you should not be Centeno, that you should be Minister of Health, and that you should present solutions, because you have been responsible for this area for more than two years. Listen to health professionals who are surely neither ungrateful nor unintelligent and are exhausted and dissatisfied. Listen to the families, listen to the reality, since you have not heard the appeals that have been made to you from my bench for more than two years. It is a pity to see this political contortionism of maneuvers that seek to conceal reality. And it is painful, because the government that you integrate has failed the Portuguese. But health is not an area to fail, Minister, health is an area where we have solutions. And it takes solutions from you! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u123	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I would like to say that the National Health Service certainly does not need any kind of recognition, i.e. the Minister says that he recognises the fairness and justice of the demands of professionals and then, in practice, fails to comply with them. But the National Health Service also does not need hollow words, such as those of the PSD and those of the CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u125	Let's decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u126	... that effectively do not defend the National Health Service. In addition, just look at the votes in the last State budget, just see how they voted, for example, the Left Block proposals that provided for a multi-annual investment plan—were plunged by the right, the PSD and the CDS. The right does not accompany the investment in the National Health Service. All that the National Health Service needs is professionals who are valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u128	So here I leave the tribute of the Left Block to professionals and our association with the manifestations and strikes that are happening in health during the entire month of May. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u129	Once the Minister of Health has again entered to use the word, I would ask him to be brief, taking into account our temporary limitation. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u130	Mr President, I would just like to reply to Mr Moisés Ferreira, with a certainty: that we will continue what we have done so far, which is a path of responsible negotiation. in a negotiation there are two parties and it is not the concession the final outcome of the negotiation, it is the compromise. We are committed to ensuring that, in all negotiating processes, there is a compromise, reconciling the expectations of professionals with the real possibility of not compromising the future. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, the truth has a lot of strength and in a year's time, when we finish this legislation with facts and not with insinuations or fantasies, as we have seen here, will indeed be very strong the comparison between what was four years of this majority and four years of the majority that preceded us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u131	To conclude the debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health: We do not confuse what the PSD and CDS here have brought with the fair demands of health professionals. Mr Minister, there is a fundamental aspect: if we have the SNS that we have, even in the face of all the attacks it has been subjected to, this is due to the commitment and dedication of health professionals, who often work in very difficult situations, seeing their rights attacked and devalued, in a situation of extreme tiredness and extreme difficulties. The truth is that the response we have and the construction of the entire National Health Service, over these years, is due to the commitment and dedication of health professionals. Thus, we want to leave a word of appreciation and recognition to the health professionals of the National Health Service, but we also want to say the following: defending the National Health Service is the defense of its professionals. It is not by chance that one of the strategies of those who defend and intend to destroy the National Health Service, and that over the years they have contributed to this same destruction — we have the very concrete examples of what were the policies of the PSD and the CDS — is the attack on health professionals, thus contributing to the destruction of the SNS. What is crucial today is to take the measures that are necessary to respond to the demands of health professionals, because that is what guarantees a National Health Service of quality for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the first item on our agenda, I should like to say goodbye to the honourable Members. Members of the Government and we shall immediately turn to point 2, which consists of the assessment of draft law No 855 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to the Framework Law on Environmental Controls, in order to establish the principle of the non-pre-announcement of inspection and supervision actions ( The Greens ), in general, together with draft resolution No 1579/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government step up the adoption of measures to enable more efficient inspection procedures for economic operators ( NAPs ). To begin the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring to the Assembly of the Republic a bill which aims to amend the Framework Law on Environmental Controls, in order to enshrine the principle of non-advisation of inspection and supervision actions. It was a legislative initiative with which we committed ourselves, in the course of the parliamentary days that we carried out, precisely in order to deal with the issues of the Tejo, its pollution and its conflicts. In the Assembly of the Republic, we have debated this matter, unfortunately, repeatedly, because this debate has been dragged and driven by the deeply visible, disturbing and criminal phenomena that have occurred in the river Tejo and which have been denounced, essentially by citizens, by populations who are very committed to this citizenship and social intervention, to preserve our ecosystems and our ecological balance. But precisely in this regard, the Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in the Tejo River, presented in November 2016, which makes a set of considerations on pollution sources, intervention needs and also some evident conditionalisms. On these matters, the Greens have been very perennial in the need to strengthen inspections, monitoring and inspection. We know that this strengthening cannot be done without the strengthening of means, but we also understand what for example IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory) reported to the Assembly of the Republic, which was the fact that it intensified inspection actions—only in the Tejo in 2017, 245 inspections were carried out, which resulted in 115 news cars—but then often companies ended up acting in court and what resulted, for example, was what happened to Celtejo ( Cellulose Company of the Tejo, SA), which had a fine to pay by EUR 12,500, and the court not only reduced this value to EUR 6000, as it still decided to replace the payment of the fine by a reprimand or admonition to the company. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is here an environmental education course that has to be done not only in schools but in a more comprehensive way in our society. We have no doubt about this! But the fact is that, permitted by our law — there is even a concrete order by the government — in the inspection actions, the prior notice is taken as a principle to the inspected entities, i.e. the inspection goes there but before it advises the company that it is going there. Now, what does this give you time for? So that the company can prepare to regulate its emissions, to regulate its waste on the Roof, let us say so, its effluents, and therefore to subvert the actual results resulting from its work. This is the principle that the Greens want to change today. The principle of inspection should be that of the non-pre-warning and only in exceptional cases should that notice be made, in order not to compromise the inspection. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u135	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has been witnessing for several years the impunity of various environmental crimes committed by operators who carry out their activity in affront to the law. Several examples of water contamination are the case of the most flagrant river basin of the Tejo. The extent of pollution affecting the Portuguese rivers, which has led to the death of numerous animals, the destruction of ecosystems and the reduction of the quality of life of many communities, caused by intensive agriculture, the cellulose industry, intensive livestock, where pigs, urban waste water and other discharges of untreated effluents, is known. the systematic disregard of the law, adds the insufficient supervision that causes many operators to continue to pollute and destroy the ecosystems at its bel-prazer. In order to overcome the problems of supervision that exist, it is important to overcome some shortcomings, thus making law enforcement more effective. One aspect which has no change relates to the prior communication of the inspection procedures to the targeted entities, which gives the possibility for any prevaricators to hide or camouflage the signs of illegal practices, and this prediction must be eradicated from our legal order. Another gap, which constitutes a very serious situation, comes from the regime of regularisation and modification and or expansion of establishments and holdings of industrial and livestock activities, in which the possibility of all operators related to these activities was allocated within one year to submit a request for regularisation. The real problem relates to the fact that the receipt of proof of the submission of the application for regularisation alone constitutes a legitimate title for the provisional exploitation of the establishment or for the exercise of the activity until the final date of decision on that application. The table becomes more serious since IGAMAOT does not know which entities that have submitted requests for regularization on which there is still no decision, which allows these entities that have been operating on a provisional basis for up to three and a half years and without any inspection of IGAMAOT, which nothing can do. For inspection purposes, we talk about ghost entities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of this serious problem, it is urgent to identify strictly the entities that have submitted requests for regularisation on which there is no decision yet and to transmit this information to IGAMAOT in order to enable these entities, which are incomprehensible outside the control system, to be monitored and inspected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens and the NAP present today proposals that aim to change the inspection procedures essentially because of the serious environmental problems that have occurred with particular incidence on the river Tejo and with greater relevance in the last three years. The options are different: The Greens choose to propose a change to the law of environmental counter-ordination, basically adding to it what is already provided for in the IGAMAOT Inspection Procedure Regulation, and the NAP proposes the repeal of an article of that Regulation. In practice, the objectives are the same. The CDS fully agrees with the fact that inspections, in particular environmental inspections, probably more than any other, will have to take place without prior notice to the inspection operators, where possible. It's just that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is that this is already the case where it is possible. Why? Because the IGAMAOT Inspection Procedure Regulation states, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, very well, that the initiation of the inspection procedure should be preceded by written communication, but as can be read in Article 18 (2). this Regulation, except where the communication is likely to challenge the objective of the inspection action. Therefore, when an environmental problem is to be inspected — that is precisely what is at stake — what happens, in practice, is that when it is possible there is no written communication, so these initiatives do not solve the problem. As the Greens referred to in the explanatory statement of the initiative they presented, the problem is that it is mandatory in many situations — and none of the initiatives put forward proposes an amendment to this issue — a 24-hour period of work. Therefore, none of the initiatives solve this problem. The CDS believes that there must be legislative stability and that only what is to be changed will benefit the functioning of our society, of course. In addition, the CDS believes that it would be very different to implement—and that is what the Government should do as soon as possible—the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 47 / 2018, which was unanimously adopted in this House and which resulted from initiatives from all parliamentary groups. Paragraph 2 of that Resolution recommends that the Government allow the analytical results obtained with spot samples, when they are repeatedly exceeded by legal limits, to serve as a means of proof in the event of environmental non-compliance. This recommendation was proposed by the CDS, following the conclusions of the Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in Rio Tejo, as already mentioned here by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, which was also commissioned by the Minister himself. This report dates from November 2016 and we still fail to understand why the Minister has not yet implemented the resolution which has been adopted, as he said, by all the parties of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u139	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u140	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. We agree with the objectives of the initiatives presented, which we think are of the greatest relevance, but we do not believe that your proposals will effectively solve the problem at stake. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u141	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been a great deal because of the reporting capacity of industrial pollution situations that we have come to know about the influence of the lack of environmental awareness of several companies and of productive irresponsibility. It has been thanks to activists, environmentalists, autarchs and population in general that alerts to environmental pollution and its consequences have been increasingly on the agenda. This increase in dissemination and popular denunciation is due to the fact that we have known the negative effect, for example, of Celtejo and Centroliva, on the Tejo River — even though all the denial syndrome of the Minister of the Environment and the Portuguese Environment Agency — the case of pig husbandry in Leiria, the fumes and discharges of Portugal's olives in strong, the voracity of superintensive oil monoculture, the particles and dusts from national steels, the discharges of Celbi and Soporcel in Leirosa, Cimpor in Alhandra, Carmona in Setúbal, of hazardous waste in S. Pedro da Cova, among many others. It is thanks to activists that we have knowledge of these situations. Monitoring and reporting on compliance and concern with environmental standards have been made mainly by the population, who is the one who alerts for discharges, wastes and particles that condition their daily lives and their health, well-being and enjoyment for food subsistence or leisure activities. These complaints have been frequent and indicate that many industries are not aware or compatible with the preservation of the environment and ecosystems and also that the law itself allows such pollution to exist, either because monitoring is often delivered to the polluters themselves or because licences are extended, extended, modified in accordance with the needs of the company in relation to pollution that emits and not the capacity of the environment, or because late supervision and evidence collection is very demanding, or because, as these projects indicate, the supervised entity is notified in advance. Well, that doesn't make any sense, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. In all supervisory situations, the "surprise" factor is essential. No one understands that it is mandatory for companies to be notified when there is an inspection of the Labour Conditions Authority. How is it understood that the notification for a supervision at Celtejo has been made to the company itself? How is it understood that, in relation to companies in breach or unable to treat their discharges, a provisional or adapted permit on the pollution they emit is issued and that immediate measures to reduce discharges and emissions are not applied? Environmental pollution is a systemic and intrinsic problem in industries. The lack of respect for the importance of the environment at the level of ecosystems and biodiversity, but also at the economic and social level, has been constant and changes to these models require all the more that our country is one of the most susceptible to climate change. The projects presented today are the beginning for the environment to stop being subaltern and assume the centrality it really has in people's lives, and the Left Block is in perfect agreement with them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u143	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Angela Moreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you in this which is my first intervention in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u145	Allow me, then, to interrupt you, Madam Member, in order to wish you an excellent parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the end of last year, we witnessed the criminal discharges of pollutants in the Tejo River that kill fauna and flora, calling into question the economic survival of fishermen and farmers. It happens that the Tile is not the only example. Contamination is general in the fluents and main rivers of the country, where there are domestic discharges due to lack of basic sanitation, as well as criminal discharges of polluting materials made by factories that do not respect environmental laws. There are official reports that identify problems. However, no progress has been made in what the CFP has considered to be crucial: the capacity of the State to ensure all the material and human resources necessary for monitoring, monitoring and monitoring of the environmental parameters of the rivers; the implementation of measures necessary to mitigate the effects of pollution on the river; and the review of emergency plans and procedures in the face of pollution-related incidents. This capacity for monitoring and intervention by the State is essential in order to be able to account for productive activity, improve the living conditions of populations and environmental quality. We do not want to destroy companies and workplaces. Economic activity is important, but it must comply with the law and must respect the quality of life of citizens, and it cannot result in a deterioration in the quality of life of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u148	Order No 10466 / 2017, in Article 18. the, of giving unfortunately coverage to environmental attacks which have occurred when allowing possible offenders to be notified in advance of visits to the premises inspected by the competent authorities for the monitoring of the procedures of these same companies as regards discharges to the rivers of matter which must be previously subject to treatment. I would like to greet the Members of the Greens Ecological Party for the bill presented, because reflecting on this issue makes all the sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u150	Only by means of the State can the compliance of tails that preserve the balance of ecosystems and biodiversity, the measurement of the water quality of the river Tejo, the realization of regular inspection actions that allow the identification of pollution sources be ensured. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the human and technical resources of authorities and entities with environmental responsibilities. The CFP has no doubt that full compatibility between the preservation of nature, on the one hand, and human development, on the other hand, cannot occur within the framework of the capitalist economic and social system, in which the obtaining of profit and the accumulation of capital overlaps in the search for the well-being of populations and the protection of nature. Only by exceeding the capitalist production model is that we will achieve a harmonious relationship between man and nature, preventing over-exploration of natural, biological and geological resources. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives currently under discussion have certainly resulted in a series of occurrences in the Tejo River involving the authorities of the Ministry of the Environment and the companies that have been originating in pollution processes of this international water resource. Analysis by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) revealed levels of cellulose above those permitted, which the Government interpreted as a result of the accumulation of discharges of industrial organic matter. Thus, the Government prevented discharges from Celtejo within a period of days and carried out a review of its licences. IGAMAOT has identified a set of companies that present a history of non-compliance with licenses and counter-ordering processes that resulted in cars. However, during these research processes APA and IGAMAOT reported difficulties in accessing the collection points. Due to the last episode of pollution in the river Tejo, the collection of water was possible only to the fourth attempt and with three inspectors remaining for 24 hours. The Minister of the Environment stated that since 2017 there has been a "articulated monitoring strategy" between various entities and the Attorney-General of the Republic. In addition, IGAMAOT has referred to the fact that companies are resorting to judicial proceedings that have already been decided, with fines to be reduced, and end up, even if they are replaced by a warning. in this house we cannot identify the prevaricators, institute proceedings, judge environmental crimes or alter court sentences. Each institution has its own powers and responsibilities. As Members of Parliament, we must equip inspection officers and technicians to do their best on behalf of the State, in defence of the environment and public resources. Monitoring and inspection actions shall ensure that the State develops a preventive and non-reactive action. IGAMAOT shall no longer issue a notice of supervision to the entity concerned where it may harm it. That is why this exception is foreseen in Dispatch No 10466 / 2017, which is very often used. It is therefore important to make it clear that the services protected by the Ministry allow for checks to be carried out in respect of which the respective notice does not compromise the supervision. There is no opposition on the part of the PS Parliamentary Group to the adoption of this diploma in general, provided that the issues that may be rightly addressed in the field of expertise are safeguarded. Some cases in which there should be communication are highlighted: cases in which inspections or inspections involve the consultation of documentary elements or elements that should be prepared by the entity; cases in which it is necessary for the entity to carry out inquiries to prepare the inspection or supervision and which do not harm it; and other such cases. It is also necessary to take account of the fact that this diploma applies to other realities, such as noise law, and we must therefore take account of all these realities in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u153	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u154	I will now finish, Mr President. With regard to the draft resolution submitted by the NAP, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not object to points 2 and 3 and point 1 does not see any reason for the repeal of the point in question of order, which, in fact, complies fully with existing legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u155	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have all been confronted with situations in which economic or industrial activities prevent, polluting, damaging the environment, our natural resources and affecting the quality of life of populations. We all recognize the importance of effective monitoring and inspection and how difficult it is at times to develop responsibilities and prevent harmful impacts on the environment. We all know this reality and are confronted with it. That is why we all know that inspections and inspections in environmental or public health matters should not, as a rule, have a marked date and time. The PSD has always argued that respect for the environment and enforcement of the law should be of permanent attention by industry and economic agents and not only care when they know that they will be subject to supervision or inspection on a given date.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u158	We defend this consistently and consistently, even in some other cases, well-mediated until we have come to defend the elimination of periodic inspections, preferring the option for random checks that do not allow companies to set up supervision by preparing this moment when in the other days they operate in non-compliance and pollution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u159	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u160	We defended this even when we had the opposition and the vote against the parties on the left in this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u162	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations, but strangely, this law is not wrong. This law came from 2006, passed through several governments, underwent changes in 2009, in 2015 and even in 2016, but has never seen its article 18. the, on the right of access to inspection and supervision functions, to undergo changes. It is a law that has always promoted the factor « surprise», making no mention of prior warnings or warnings. It was necessary to arrive at this government to regulate the IGAMAOT inspection procedure by ordering a prior notice to the inspection. This is how this order creates the rule that may hinder the obtaining of evidence in the monitoring and inspection actions. Today, we are discussing this amendment to the law of environmental counter-ordinations, which we will have to adopt in order to prevent this situation, knowing that the Government can make a summary of the recommendation, also logical, submitted by the NAP, of the repeal of the article of the order which introduces this newness into the Portuguese legal framework. If we want a strong environmental monitoring, we cannot take such an important part in the intervention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u163	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u164	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, your Government, the PSD government had a similar order. More: until I said the advance notice should be three days. Therefore, Mr, it is better to study some matters before coming here. But about that, I don't say anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u165	But it was wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u166	It was wrong and now it's wrong too! Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I recognize that the bill does not solve all the problems of the Tejo — and that is not what he proposes. In any case, the honourable Member has to change the law in order to change the rule by saying that the prior notice is not the rule, is the exception, contrary to what the order says, drags, let us say so, all that comes after the law. The PS Member says they do not want to revoke the office because it is in accordance with the law. With the approval of the bill submitted by the Greens, the order is inconsistent with the law and, in fact, the rule is not prior notice. It is clear that we must establish exceptions, because if there is certain material that needs to be prepared for the inspection, we must warn ourselves, but these exceptions are also proposed by the Greens. Do you want to specify them more? We can specify. Now, the rule must be that of the non-advance. With regard to the collection of samples for 24 hours, this is a drag which must also be made by decree-law of the Government, because it was the government that legislated on this matter. The Government feels that the rule is established by the Assembly of the Republic, it should amend the decree to allow spot samples on different days in different hours, but that it is also a representative sample of the company's work. We agree, Mrs. Deputy. By establishing this rule that the Greens want to create, everything else will be by drag and direct-CL, it will be a better and more effective inspection and so that companies do not spend their lives predicting with the aid, including escapes, let us say that the law itself allows for supervision and inspection. Thank you very much for your substantial tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u167	Madam Member, you have benefited from the fact that I am preparing the next item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then move on to the third item on our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1436 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate Law 38 / 2004 of 18 August, defining the specific terms in which private employers should fill the 2 % employment share of persons with disabilities ( PSD ), 1437 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an assessment of the application of Decree-Law No 29 / 2001 of 3 February ( establishing the system of employment quotas for persons with disabilities, with a degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60 % in the services and bodies of the central and local administration ) ( PSD ) and 1570 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of public employment for persons with disabilities and measures for access to vocational training and employment with rights ( CFP ), of Bill No 860 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the extraordinary program of entry of persons with disabilities into the Public Administration ( PEIPDAP ) ( CDS-PP ) ( generally ) of draft resolution No 1581/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that contribute to the improvement of employability of persons with disabilities ( NAP ) in draft law No 861 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a requirement for the hiring of 2 % of workers with functional diversity ( BE) ( generally) and draft resolution No 1593/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring the application of employment quotas for persons with disabilities ( The Greens ). To present the legislative initiatives of the PSD, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention of Persons with Disabilities establishes the need to promote employment and employability as instruments promoting the inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities and reiterates that access to the labour market, professional integration, lifelong learning and accessibility to physical space are basic principles of public inclusion policies. The Portuguese State has committed itself to adopting and promoting integration policies in society, policies to combat discrimination, policies to include and qualify for work, recognizing the right to work of persons with disabilities, ensuring their training and adaptation to the job and encouraging their employment in the Public Administration and in private enterprises. People with disabilities have as much working capacity as anyone else, knowing that their functions are appropriate to their profile and their abilities, such as any other worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u170	The unemployment of people with disabilities in Portugal is a worrying dimension. It is above the European Union average and is significantly higher than unemployment for people with disabilities. For the PSD Parliamentary Group this is a matter of great importance and, therefore, we are presenting here today two initiatives that aim to promote employment and employability as tools to promote the autonomy and inclusion of people with disabilities or disabilities. Access to the labour market, professional integration, lifelong learning and accessibility to physical space are basic principles of inclusion policies. The qualification and promotion of the inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities is a design that has a broad political consensus in this House, to assess by the content of the projects of all parties that go in the same direction and therefore, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no excuses and there's no way to do it. Over a decade on the entry into force of the legislation establishing employment quotas for persons with disabilities with disabilities equal to or greater than 60 % in the services and bodies of central and local administration, the need arises to assess the compliance and impact of this legislation on the employability of persons with disabilities. The information we have available is parked and dispersed and is not properly systematized according to a uniform model, and this information is essential for monitoring the implementation of this legislation. Therefore, the PSD considers that it is of the greatest relevance that an annual diagnosis of the employment of people with disabilities in public administration services, services and ministries is made so that we can measure the degree of compliance with this measure. The same is true of private entities whose legislation lays down the quota of 2 % of disabled or disabled workers. However, the application of the law has been called into question because the specific terms in which private entities must fill this quota are not defined, precisely because the law, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it has not been regulated and, after 15 years on the publication of this diploma, it is more than enough time to regulate the law and enforce this right for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the PSD's contribution to this debate today. In fact, it was a very important contribution, because since it was the first party to present legislative initiatives on this matter, we brought all other parties by drag and, I repeat, there is a broad political consensus here calling on us all to quickly force these measures out of the paper and to be implemented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u171	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance with the right to employment for people with disabilities is one of the fundamental factors to ensure a dignified, autonomous and independent life. The CFP has stated this at different times and has intervened towards the fulfilment of this constitutional right, also provided for in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. On employment quotas for people with disabilities, it is important to say that the main problem with its compliance, particularly in the public sector, is the failure to open competitions especially in the central administration and, in the private sector, the main problem is the regulation of the law already existing for this sector, a responsibility that we believe is the government and that it is important that it is implemented. People with disabilities are indeed of the social groups who suffer the most from the violent consequences of unemployment, precarious work, which places them among the most affected by poverty and social exclusion. Most are not employed or registered in employment centres. Thousands, after years waiting for integration into the world of work, give up their registration, because this placement never comes. This is a reality that must be fought! But it is also important that the reality of employment, unemployment, the precariousness of disabled people is known in depth and with rigour. The insufficiency and, in some cases, the lack of updated information on employment and on the vocational training of this social group or the treatment of this information in a systematic and regular manner prevents the knowledge of the situation in relation to the labour market. It is a difficulty that has to be overcome in order to better know this reality and better intervene on it. We do not detach access to employment for people with disabilities from the guarantee of other fundamental rights and from the need to break down barriers that persist either in accessibility, either in mobility, in communication, in transport or in the adaptation of the job. We do not disconnect access to employment for persons with disabilities from the existence of a free, quality and inclusive public school at all levels of education or from the existence of quality vocational training. It is in this sense that we present our proposals. We propose that an annual report be submitted identifying the placement of disabled persons in public administration competitions and assessing the application of the public employment quota diploma. We propose that a survey be made, identifying different universes: people with disabilities integrated into the labour market, discriminating the nature of the employment bond, identifying their placement in the public sector or in the private sector; people who are attending continuing training or vocational training actions, also discriminating the areas of training; people with disabilities at active age who are inactive or unemployed; and young people with disabilities seeking first employment. We understand that a strong link between schools and vocational training centres should also be ensured, and we insist that vocational training correspond to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and competences for inclusion in active life, defending the development of a broad and diverse vocational training plan. We propose that protected employment centres, in addition to the validity of employability, also consider a vocational training response, in view of the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market in general. This is the contribution we have left so that the right to employment of people with disabilities can be effective in their daily lives. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u173	To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the leaders of the confederations and associations of representatives of persons with disabilities present here. I would like to say, first of all, that this agenda—an agenda which is aimed at the problem of underemployment of people with disabilities, whether in the public sector or in the private sector—is about a problem of the greatest importance, especially since all the indicators give us an account of the seriousness of the situation that hits the most vulnerable. Unemployment for people with disabilities means that these people cannot, most of all, achieve greater autonomy, greater independence, emancipation and fuller achievement. The data we have of underemployment, unemployment, people with disabilities in Portugal are clearly serious and must all be concerned. It is also in this sense, and in the wake of the awareness of the gravity of this situation, that we must not fail to underline an aspect which highlights this agenda and all the proposals put forward by the various parties. We are faced with a matter that has brought together, and has had the ability to bring together, cross-party understandings, where we have had the ability here, in the House, to demonstrate that, in the search for solutions that respond to people, which must be our main concern in these policies, we have the ability to overcome differences, which often does not happen. I believe that this is an aspect that we cannot but highlight and which is quite visible because of the diversity of proposals that we have before us, because of the concern that we together seek consensus and solutions that are going to meet the people who need it most. in this sense, I cannot but underline what in the CDS we consider to be a very positive proposal, which we have to present within this agenda. This is not just a resolution to recommend to the Government that it implement measures, this is where we take responsibility in the House. Today we have this opportunity to approve an extraordinary programme of integration of people with disabilities in the Public Administration. This extraordinary programme must be the natural consequence of what was another extraordinary programme, the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ), which integrated the precarious ones and sought to respond to the precarious situation in the Public Administration. Now, if we all agree that there must be a quota, and there is a quota which has been established in the law since 2014 and which says that in public tenders at least 5 % must be preserved for disabled people, because then what we have to do after PREVPAP is to evaluate exactly how many people have integrated the Public Administration at the end of this programme and establish and open a special quota for persons with disabilities who preserve the quota set out in the law. That's our expectation. We are sure that most of this House will be next to people with disabilities aiming at their integration into the Public Administration, which, unfortunately, we all know is very much less than what it should be. If we do so today, we are responding to the concrete problems of many people, who will see on this initiative an opportunity to, too, correspond to applications that may be the occasion of emancipation, autonomy, independence and professional achievement to which everyone is entitled. People with disabilities, of course, are not removed from this right, on the contrary, must be at the heart of our concerns. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u175	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Report People with Disabilities in Portugal — Human Rights Indicators 2017, from the Monitoring Centre for Disability and Human Rights, presents worrying data on the employability of people with disabilities. The registered unemployment fell 19 % between 2011 and 2016 for the general population but increased 27 % for the disabled population. Short-term unemployment among people with disabilities fell by 7 % between 2011 and 2016, but long-term unemployment rose by 64 %. The report also tells us that persons with disabilities in private enterprises with more than 10 employees account for less than 1 % of the total number of workers, representing only 2, 3 % of all employees in the Public Administration, therefore not being met the current quota system, which means that companies must, in view of their size, hire persons with disabilities up to 2 % of the total number of workers and the Public Administration must hire persons with disabilities at a rate of 5 % or more. Although the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Labour Code expressly prohibit any forms of discrimination on the basis of disability in all employment-related matters, the data provided demonstrate that much still needs to be done in this area, which is why we are presenting an initiative aimed at improving the current situation. It is necessary to regulate Law No 38 / 2004, which defines the legal regime for the prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of persons with disabilities, defining the specific terms in which private sector employers should fill the 2 % employment share of persons with disabilities since their absence has contributed to the failure to fill the quota. Also in the name of transparency, a report should be published annually demonstrating the development of the hiring of persons with disabilities in the Public Administration, which should contain data on the number of persons with disabilities who apply and those who are admitted. Finally, we argue that the number of vacancies in tenders from which the quota of 5 % applies should be reviewed, in view of the reduction in the recruitment of new public servants in recent years and the fact that public tenders with only one or two vacancies to be completed, since in these situations the quota of 5 % does not apply, which is detrimental to the hiring of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u177	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Law No 38 / 2004, which established the legal regime for the prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of persons with disabilities, it can be read in Article 28. the, which « Companies must, taking into account their size, hire persons with disabilities by contract of work or service, up to 2 % of the total number of workers ». Almost 14 years have passed since the adoption of this Act, several governments have passed, but the regulation of employment quotas for the private sector continues to be done. The need for regulation has long been a demand for people with functional diversity and their representative organisations and already included the Big Plan Options for 2017, which included the objective of defining a strategy of employment and work for all, including the implementation of specific quotas for the employment of people with disabilities or disabilities. In addition, already in December 2016, on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the State Secretary for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities announced the intention to create employment quotas in the private sector for people with disabilities and the requirement for compliance with these in the public sector, recognizing, at the time, that unemployment is the problem that most affects this population. However, people with functional diversity continue to face daily and permanent discrimination in access to work. In fact, according to the latest data available in the social balance sheet in 2015, there were 7041 workers with disabilities between 60 and 80 % and, as regards persons with disabilities equal to or greater than 80 %, the number was even lower, referring to a total universe of 1500 people. We know that we cannot extrapolate this data to the whole universe of the private sector, because they do not cover companies with 10 or less workers, but the bill that we present only sets quotas for companies with 50 or more workers, which, according to the social balance data already mentioned, do not employ more than half a percent of workers with a 60% or more disability rate than was established almost 14 years ago, which would be 2 % of the workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to the official data of the Employment and Vocational Training Institute on the number of unemployed people enrolled in employment centres, despite the fact that there has been an overall reduction in unemployment recorded between 2011 and 2016 — a reduction of 18, 8 % in the number of unemployed registered in this period — this improvement has not extended to persons with disabilities, including an increase of 26, 7 % in the number of unemployed persons with disabilities registered in employment centres. At that time, in 2016, 13 183 persons with functional diversity in the unemployment situation were enrolled in the employment centre. It is time to change this situation and have an active employment policy for people with functional diversity, a policy that will not go exclusively through the establishment of quotas. We know that, but quotas are necessary, and if I have read the draft resolutions that are being discussed today, I can only conclude that it is the wish of the majority of this House that these quotas will be effective. The general lines of the project we present are very simple: companies have a deadline to reach the objective of 2 % of workers with functional diversity and, if they do not meet it — and I remember that this objective is established in the law for more than 13 years — will contribute to a fund that will be dedicated to promoting employability policies for people with disabilities. We are open to receiving, as a specialist, all the proposals that contribute to the improvement of the proposal we present. We are open to collaboration with all parties so that, finally, a measure that has long been claimed by the community of people with functional diversity is a reality. That is why we were elected and elected. We have made this commitment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one would understand whether this proposal was rejected. [[Congratulations from BE and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u179	To present the Greens' legislative initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the report Persons with disabilities in Portugal — Human Rights Indicators2017, from the Monitoring Centre for Disability and Human Rights, highlight still very worrying trends in terms of full inclusion of people with disabilities in society. Indeed, we are talking about people who have a very large vulnerability and for whom society has not yet implemented full inclusion mechanisms. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State has enormous responsibilities in this area. The adoption of specific legislation in Portugal, which assumes the importance of the State to act with a view to the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market and to improving the creation of more opportunities, is clearly translated into Law No 7 / 2009, which states that, and I quote, « The State should stimulate and support the employer's action in hiring workers with disabilities or chronic illness and in their professional rehabilitation. Do not keep on seeking. ” It also finds a framework in the field of public policies in Decree-Law No 290/2009, which created the Employment and Qualification Support Program for Persons with Disabilities and Disabilities. In order also to ensure the professional integration of persons with disabilities within the Public Administration, Decree-Law No 29/2001 established a compulsory quota for admission in this field which stipulates that, firstly, 5 % of vacancies should be reserved for persons with disabilities, where the tendering involves 10 or more places, secondly, a place for persons with disabilities in tenders of three to nine vacancies and, thirdly, in the case of a public tender involving one or two vacancies, preference should be given to the disabled person, where candidates obtain the same classification. As has already been mentioned by several banks today, Law No 38 / 2004 laying down the general basis for the legal regime for the prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of persons with disabilities provides not only for the 5 % share for the Public Administration, but also for the possibility of introducing quotas for the hiring of workers with disabilities by means of employment contract or service provision, up to 2 % of the total number of workers. It appears that the proposed lack of regulation constitutes an obstacle to the application of such standards. However, one of the objectives of the draft resolution presented by the Greens is precisely to demand such rules as are necessary for the effective applicability of Law No 38 / 2004. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the results of the route and, in particular, of this whole legislative framework and the preparation for what is still very important will always be a nebula if there is a piece that the Greens consider to be decisive. And what is it? It is precisely an evaluation of results, the characterization of employability and the provision of systematic and up-to-date information on the specific situation of people with disabilities in the labour market. The Greens believe that, in addition to the need to ensure professional integration — and still much to be done — and to improve the conditions for access to employment for people with disabilities — and still much to be done — it is important for this'very much still to be done' to know the real application of the established standards and to collect relevant and up-to-date information on this matter in order to measure its level of effectiveness. That is also it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, another objective of the draft resolution presented today by the Greens so that people with disabilities will not continue to be excluded from our labour market and that our society will be truly inclusive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u181	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislation has been marked by increased visibility and work in the fight for equality in the treatment and recognition of the rights of our citizens with disabilities. Today, we are talking about work, more precisely the right to it, as it is reflected in the Constitution of the Republic. The Constitution is clear when determining in Article 71. the, that « Citizens with physical or mental disabilities fully enjoy the rights and are subject to the duties set out in the Constitution(...) ». The Socialist Party assumes this defence with great responsibility, aware of the importance of work in terms of autonomy and individual independence. The Socialist Party has fought for the right to work for people with disabilities and it was for this reason that in 2001 the Government, then led by Eng. Antonio Guterres, established by Decree-Law No 29/2001 a system of quotas for access to public employment for persons with disabilities. The balance sheet of this measure is positive, but we recognize that there is a lack of periodic and critical evaluation and that the production of an annual report to be presented in the Assembly of the Republic will enable better monitoring of its implementation and even improvement. But it is also time to deplore the lack of pro-activity, because after 14 years and four governments, two of the Socialist Party and two of PSD / CDS, the same protection in access to private employment was not guaranteed, since the regulation of Law No 38 / 2004 of 18 August, which defined in its Article 28. the 2 % quota for the hiring of persons with disabilities to be met by private employers. On the other hand, I can say that several of the recommendations already submitted today are being met by the Government, which has constituted a working group with elements of the INR (National Institute for Rehabilitation ) and the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Educación Professional) with the aim of promoting a shared reflection on the current framework of policies in the area of employment and training of people with disabilities or disabilities. This working group will draw up a proposal for a regulation of Article 28. the Law No 38 / 2004, of 18 April, proposed that this year will be presented to social consultation for evaluation. But if we generally agree with the recommendations of the draft resolutions discussed here today, we also show concern about the two draft laws that form part of this package of initiatives. With regard to the draft law of the Left Block, what is further away from us is a matter of methodology, because the Socialist Party considers that Law No 38/2004 already establishes the obligation to contract 2 % of disabled workers and what is missing is to proceed with its regulation, and to comply with it, so it would be inappropriate to approve and a new law with the same objective. With regard to the CDS-PP bill, which aims to create a PEIPDAT ( Extraordinary Program of Admission of Persons with Disabilities in Public Administration ), it is necessary to understand that PREVPAP already includes people with disabilities but could hardly meet quotas. This is because, being an extraordinary programme of regularization of the precarious links in the Public Administration, it implies that the worker, with or without disabilities, is working, corresponding to a permanent need for this service and having an inappropriate legal link that is necessary, yes, to correct. In all other procedures for hiring workers for the Public Administration, except for the regularization of pre-existing situations, it is required by law to comply with the 5 % quota. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u183	As the CFP still has time, Mrs Diana Ferreira was told to speak to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After discussing this set of parliamentary initiatives on the right to employment of people with disabilities, it is also important to remember that successive governments over several years have effectively carried out policies for the destruction of the productive apparatus, the liquidation of public services and the destruction of jobs also with consequences for people with disabilities and their access to employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u186	It is also important to remember the special responsibility of the PSD and the CDS in this area, who fired social security workers, including disabled people, when they were in government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u187	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u188	... in particular the CDS which had the direct protection of social security. Therefore, it is important to remember this responsibility, because the words that were said today by the PSD and the CDS do not erase their actions while they were in the government. We would also like to underline the struggle of people with disabilities, their families, their representative organisations and their presence in the Assembly of the Republic. It was an effective decisive struggle for disabled people to conquer a set of rights that still need to be effective in their daily lives. This is also a struggle for which the CFP is available, and with which it is supportive, to ensure employment for these people, and this is a struggle that is not disconnected from the guarantee of employment with rights for all. Here we will be to stop this struggle at all times and spaces available. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the third item on our agenda is thus concluded. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very extensive agenda and I therefore call for the time allocated to be respected. We will continue the work with the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of draft law No 865 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives ( PS ). To present this initiative, Mr Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today presents a bill on the use of digital devices for personal use in public libraries and archives. To guard these institutions are from primary sources, secondary sources and unique documents, unpublished and printed manuscripts, unpublished and published, to vast bibliography, from literature, to various studies and trials, periodical publications and essential works for all branches of scientific knowledge. Libraries and files in our country are platforms for sharing knowledge and knowledge with recognized skills and open doors to innovation. We constantly ask the citizen of the 21st century to acquire new and more up-to-date digital skills. Well, here is an example that the use of digital devices, which we rely on today so much, should be at the service of better learning but, above all, be part of auxiliary tools and methods of study and research. The use of portable computers, tablets, readers and audio player, digital phones and photographic cameras in reading rooms, as well as the use of digital photography of documents and works for private use are already realities practiced in some files and libraries. However, they are prohibited in others. This practice lacks legislative framework and harmonisation. This regulation, as we promote it, is intended to benefit the reader, allowing access to the reading room with all the digital devices already mentioned and the right to use them, and of course restrictions may be imposed, in particular the non-disturbing of the other readers. But we also want to take an evolutionary step in the relationship between citizens and documentary works and sources, establishing the right of readers to take a digital photograph free of charge to any documents that can consult in physical support, necessarily without using flash and respecting all the rules of access, as well as handling and preservation of them. It is essential that it is understood that these digital photographs are intended exclusively for private use and that they do not conflict with copyright, which must be respected for all other purposes. This project serves all citizens readers. Digital photography has undeniable advantages for students of different degrees of teaching, researchers and academics and, of course, for all users of libraries and files, in general. For those who develop theses or research projects highlight the added value in capturing, storing and stopping images collected for consultation and intellectual use at any time and at all stages of the research, research and information collection process. This process dematerializes and democratizes the access and retention of knowledge, in addition to saving time in the research process and potentially reducing costs previously spent on photocopies or digitizations, often for merely momentary and ephemeral use. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that this is a step forward that can only be proud of the benefits it provides. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u191	We already have some inscriptions by Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP follows the Socialist Party's initiative on the use of digital devices for personal use in public libraries and archives, as we recognize a great deal of usefulness, especially for researchers, and that comes on the verge of practices in other countries. It seems to us that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to densify some aspects, in particular as regards the conditions of use of elements that may have a negative impact on the lives of readers. But I also want to say, Mr. Diogo León, who knows a little bit about this project, taking into account the mass of problems in the book and reading sector. And we must also make reference to that reality. Issues such as those affecting independent bookstores and publishers, which are closing doors every day, as recently as Pó dos Livros, in Lisbon, the Miguel Carvalho Library, in Coimbra, or the Reading, in Porto. Indeed, there is a lack of a consistent policy for the promotion of book and reading, for the development of reading habits, in which the responsibilities of the State are fully assumed through central government and government. And the means are missing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, libraries and public archives. The necessary investment that, if the CFP proposal in the State Budget for 2018 to support the updating of the documentary funds and the renewal of public libraries collections had been accepted, could already have known positive developments. Finally, the Government, through the Minister of Culture, recognized in 2016 that the merger of the Directorate-General for Archives and the Directorate-General for Books and Libraries, giving rise to the current DGLAB, was a mistake. He assumed that it was not a good model, that the directors also thought the same thing. The ensuing action is missing: change what is wrong! The CFP will continue, with its intervention and its proposals, the path of the defence of culture, claiming 1% of the State budget for culture and the structuring of a true public service of culture that values its workers and is a factor of individual and collective progress and emancipation. By saying this, it is clear that we value the initiative presented and we hope, then, that, in the field of expertise, we can contribute to it becoming more robust. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u193	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa now has the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are emergencies whose urgency is unknown. How urgent is this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what seven days after the introduction of this initiative justifies this accelerated discussion on the use of mobile phones to photograph books in libraries, when the reform of copyright in the European Union is expected to be approved in June? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although this urgency is questionable, we do not fail to raise the issue. The was digital, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires a constant adaptation of society and also has a great impact on the functioning of libraries and on the service they provide. What are you arguing about, ladies and gentlemen? Members, it's the apparent anachronism of copyright in the era of the Internet and the digital universe. There are obviously two interests at stake. On the one hand, the need to protect the rights of authors and, on the other, the need to safeguard the wider public interest, such as access to information and knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore have serious and justified doubts that this balance is being achieved with this initiative and that all implications have been duly weighed. A first example: an investigator addresses a library. If it is your intention to photocopy documents, for your private study, you have to pay for this reproduction in paper or digital form. If the same investigator photograph the same documents with your personal equipment there is no longer any expense. The first question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to know where the coherence of this treatment is. The second question relates to the financial impact of this measure on libraries, knowing that if this initiative is approved the use of personal equipment will become the rule. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also mentioned at this level that case-law was contrary in most countries, in particular the German courts, which have not allowed libraries to provide users with digital copies of protected materials but allow them to be the libraries themselves to do so and to provide users with their digital formats. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would not like to end this intervention without leaving a final question: what is the relationship between this initiative, which exempts the payment of copies of books made with mobile phones, and the known law of the private copy, which obliges the payment of compensation whenever these equipment is sold to the public? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, balance, coherence, harmony between copyright and right of access to knowledge and culture is what the PSD advocates. For the above reasons, we will abstain from voting in general and we sincerely hope that the discussion in the specialty, with the contribution of the PSD, will respond to the questions put and promote a balance and a consensus solution among all stakeholders. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u195	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva now has the floor to speak on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The digital world is today a whole new world, a world full of opportunities without which, in fact, we no longer know how to live and what we want to live with. For this reason, because it is new, it coexistes and coexistes with some archaisms that must be corrected, having in fact here some anachronisms and distony we have to fight and this is the case with public libraries and archives. Many have already started the way of digital, it is true, but many others continue with the problem, have not yet done so and urgently do so. What the PS proposes — this use of digital devices for personal use in reading rooms and also the collection of digital photographs, which Mr. Diogo León has already explained — is another step towards digital use that the CDS, of course, greets and does not stop accompanying. But it is also clear that these developments always have problems and there is a need to adapt to our legislation and to what we also want to protect. There are two absolutely vital issues here and one of them is documentary preservation, which the document speaks about, but we need to understand whether the measures that are planned there are sufficient to effectively guarantee this documentary preservation. Another issue, and no less important, is, of course, respect for copyright, which is something that no one here can surely dispense with, and we will have to check this all. It is unfortunate that, once again, we are discussing a matter without the necessary opinions that will help us to deal with all these issues. We have the expertise, I know - and we will do it - certainly in the specialty - but it would be good if we could already have some previous information here to help us make more consensual decisions. In any case, the CDS has absolutely nothing against the principle, on the contrary, the principle is good, and therefore, in the specialty, duly accompanied by the necessary opinions, we will see how to effectively safeguard the two issues that I have underlined in advance and which have to do with copyright and documentary preservation. In addition, we will also see the best way to put this measure into practice, which has some borders that will need to be safeguarded. Therefore, we will have to see what the enforceability of these measures is and how this is done without causing motion or complications in public libraries and archives. The principle is good, let us welcome it and follow-on-CL, and we will certainly see that, in the field of expertise, we will see that refinements are to be made in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u197	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today presented a bill that regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives. We welcome the initiative, it is useful and comes to fill a gap resulting from the numerous problems that affect our libraries and archives, all of them resulting, to a greater or lesser degree, from an enemy underfinancing of renewal and modernization. Libraries and files are an essential lever of innovation and knowledge. For this reason, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has recently submitted two draft resolutions. One, approved in this Chamber, recommended urgent action by the Government to ensure that the National Library funds for acquisitions — yes, Mrs. Members, the National Library does not have funds for acquisitions—another one, regarding archives, warned of the need to make a lifting of the situation in order to equalize unacceptable solutions. It was rejected, in particular by the vote of the Socialist Party. For our part, just like luck you won't have the bill now in appreciation. As stated in it, the same «(...) aims, from the point of departure of the citizen, reader and investigator, to consolidate good practices of access to knowledge(...) ». In fact, it makes no sense today to make it difficult for digital devices to allow access to public library reading rooms and archives, which, of course, safeguard the preservation of documents and the non-disturbation of third parties. So little makes sense to prohibit the collection of digital photographs for research and use strictly private and personal purposes. In fact, one of the recurrent complaints of foreign researchers is precisely the bureaucracy they are facing. In their countries of origin, in general, the practices of this initiative have long been adopted by public libraries and archives, always respecting, of course, copyright and intellectual property, as well as the rules for the preservation of documents, which, by their nature, lack special care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite underfunding, we know that the situation of public libraries and archives is not the same. Both are more advanced in relation to users. In fact, there are already some who have introduced digital technologies and are in different stages.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u199	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u200	I shall conclude, Mr President. This bill is therefore an opportunity to improve the services provided, facilitating and dishonoring access to knowledge. in this measure, the Left Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of it and of course will make its contribution to the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u201	Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u202	Mr President, I have just asked for the floor to thank the contribution of the various parliamentary groups. I would also like to tell the PSD Member Sara Madruga from Costa that there was no urgency; yes, there was an opportunity identified that we could present a project on this subject, given that these practices are already taking place in public institutions today, these institutions of national scope that I will refrain from mentioning here to avoid any injustice. But it's not a secret, i.e. researchers know which institutions authorize the collection and digital photography of their documents. in this sense, there is obviously an opportunity to regulate itself and there is even a duty, I believe, of this Parliament to act in this regard, benefiting, from my view, the reader, the researcher, who can much gain with a practice exclusively for private use (that is, without commercial purposes, without any kind of benefit) that can help in the process of research and reflection on archival materials and on the bibliographic sources, so necessary today, to research projects and studies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u203	The discussion, in general, of Bill No. 865 / XIII ( 3 ) was concluded. ( a ), we will turn to draft resolution No 1479 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent mass eviction in the tower of the insurance company Fidelity in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ) ( BE ). To present the initiative, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola. Before that, I ask you from now on. Members who would like to speak in this debate in favour of joining until the end of the speech of the honourable Member. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating again today the problems raised by the previous Government. in this case we are not dealing with just one problem but two. In 2012, Assumption Christians proposed the law of the lease we know and that has allowed thousands of evictions throughout the country, either by increases in incomes or by non-renewal of contracts. Not being enough, in 2014 the insurer Fidelity is privatized by Maria Luís Albuquerque and handed over to the Chinese real estate fund Fosun. Expulsion and privatization, colonization of the building and cities by financial funds, this was the paradigm of the previous government. Yesterday, the CDS said here that the market is also people. Yeah, I don't know the face of Fosun, but I know that of the residents and residents who, in Santo António dos Cavalleiros and in Lisbon, have been harassed by the administration of fidelity. I also know the administrator's face, which, yes, represents the market, and I know by his mouth, in hearing in the Commission, that he intends to sell, by the end of the year, 1299 fires, which were public, to one of four possible investment funds. In Loures and Lisbon, people continue with their suspended lives. They are seeing their contracts renewed for a few years — by 2020 or 2021 — and loyalty continues with the intention of alienating the building, which has already been public, without any guarantee that the new owners will keep these people in their homes. And yes, the process may be postponed, or « pushed with the belly», but these people, who have been living in many of these houses for more than 20 years, are not with their protected right, nor with the guarantee of being able to exercise the right of preference, nor with the guarantee that the new lords will let them continue to live there from here to three years. The commitment of fidelity will be, at the most and for these buildings, until the resolution of the so-called 'negotiative process' with the investment funds. And what will happen to these residents when these buildings are no longer of fidelity? Like the previous government sold them together with the houses, without any guarantee of their stay in the demands, loyalty will also do so and these people will again be threatened in access to the housing and maintenance of their homes in a lifetime. In fact, it is to value the mobilization of residents. It was only and that is the only thing that has ensured that they are still staying in their homes today. It was his alerts that pressured the camera and the government to pressure loyalty to reverse market policy, also known as the "policie of dumping". Assumption Christians prayed to Our Lady for rain, we prefer not to leave these people's lives to chance or chance and present this draft resolution for the government to continue, together with the municipality, following the situation of these residents. But we went beyond and presented a package for housing that does what is necessary: it assigns stability to the right to housing of people; it assigns stability to its right of preference; and it prohibits bullying. Those living in the cities of Porto and Lisbon know how volatile their right to housing is. The market dynamism of CDS and PSD is voracious and has been disastrous. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop this compressor roll. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u205	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Leon has said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I myself, as President of the Loures Municipal Assembly, but also the PS Parliamentary Group and the PS autarchs have accompanied, from the outset, the residents and the movement they have created, whether present in their actions of struggle, both in the preparation and approval of motions of repudiation approved in their respective bodies and also through the meeting we had here to outline strategies of action to reverse this reality, either at the meeting with the Secretary of State of the Housing, or at the request submitted by the PS for the important coming to the Assembly of the Republic of the Insurance Trust, where it was clear that the withdrawal and assumption of a set of commitments. in this sense, the PS Parliamentary Group supports and welcomes this draft resolution of BE, not only because it also accompanies the concerns expressed there but essentially because the two proposals that this initiative presents and recommends to the Government are largely already implemented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u207	On the one hand, through the efforts of the Government and, in particular, the Secretary of State for Housing, who immediately initiated a series of contacts with the insurer in order to stop this process, by presenting a set of measures already taken, which have as their strategy the clear priority in access to housing, presenting, including goals and objectives. These are measures such as the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, the Accessible Rent Programme, renting with income insurance, measures to encourage long-term contracts with important tax benefits, market regulation measures beyond the public offer itself, incentives to rehabilitate to rent, with the aim of supporting the lease market at reduced costs. in this sense, Fidelity went back with its intention, assuming not only to change its whole strategy with regard to its housing park, including this new framework proposed by the government, but also and above all not to carry out any more eviction action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u208	On the other hand, through the articulation, which I would like to highlight, together with the Board of Freguesia, the City Council and the Municipal Assembly of Loures, essentially here wanted to heighten the tireless support and follow-up to the residents, which is more than just to recognize. Mr President, it is clear that this reality has only been experienced by the residents because of the amendments introduced, unfortunately, in the law of urban lease by the former Government of the PSD and CDS,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u209	... which allowed total deprotection of tenants. The current government has already submitted the proposal for a basic housing law. It is now up to the political parties, here in the Assembly of the Republic, to find consensus and points of convergence, so that we can improve it and improve it, so that this situation does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u210	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u211	I finish with a word of appreciation to the residents of the towers of St. Anthony of the Knights, with a lot of thanks, because if it were not your struggle and your commitment, we could be in a much worse situation today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u212	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Manuel Rollo: The CDS comes to this debate once again to reaffirm the concern about all the situations that cause or may cause instability in the lives of people and families, particularly in the area of housing, as we demonstrated yesterday in the debate we are promoting here. on our part, everything will be done in order to encourage the lease market, so that it will grow, have increased supply and prices more moderate and more affordable. This initiative brought here by the Left Block is precisely contrary to what we proposed yesterday and which we also propose today in this debate. What the Left Block here brings is social alarm, instability and panic for people and families. It is enough to read the explanatory statement of the draft resolution of Block de Left, which says that in four buildings in Santo António dos Cavalieros, municipality of Loures, several residents who have lived in these dwellings for more than 30 years are now being confronted with the law of the incomes of Assunção Cristas. But more: it says that according to reports from the press and the local committee itself, the eviction of more than 400 residents, about 150 families, and that a significant percentage of these residents are over 70 years old, including « bedridden and sick people». We all know that this does not correspond to reality. No resident has ever been in danger of clearing. The elderly, as you well know, residents over 30 years have been duly safeguarded. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rollo.]] And they are safeguarded, Mrs. Member, not by the will of the Left Block, the PCP or the PS, but by law. of the 400 residents and of the 150 families to which the Left Block refers in this initiative only one — I repeat, only one — left their home on his own will. But more: the residents themselves of these buildings in Santo António dos Cavalieros needed to come to the public, not only through a written letter to the insurer Loyalty, but also through a note to the social communication itself, moving away from a campaign promoted by the Left Block, the PCP and even the PS, regarding the political use of this same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u214	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u215	And I cannot resist, Mrs Deputy, quoting part of the letter from this House of Residents, which was drafted and addressed to the Faithfulness Company : « A campaign on fidelity has come to our knowledge today and we want to make it clear that we are not authors or co-authors of it».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u216	Who are the authors? Tell me who the authors are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u217	« As you know, our fight has always tried to be correct politically and socially and with one objective: renewing contracts».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u218	But tell me who the authors are! After all, who are the authors?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u219	« We must not fail to say that the inhabitants of St. Anthony of the Knights do not reveal themselves in this campaign»...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u220	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u221	... « and they expressly leave their disapproval in view of the use of our situation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u223	I shall conclude, Mr President. What you have done was to use these same residents for demagogy, for false arguments and for the installation of panic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u224	All right! It's a habit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u225	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, newspaper titles that refer to «Fidelity clearances affect nearly 1500 families» in nothing help the Portuguese or the tranquillity of the Portuguese. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Look, titles of these and statements like those of comrade Romão Lavadinho, who is said to be about 600,000 families at risk of losing their homes, are not true. This is not serious and is not a proper way to make politics. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u226	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These matters relating to the termination of lease contracts in respect of the towers of St. Anthony of the Knights, which are the property of Fidelity, have already been discussed here, in the parliamentary committee, and the Fidelity has already been heard, which provided the necessary clarifications. In fact, it seems to us that the Left Block did not hear, did not want to hear or, purely and simply, did not want to hear the explanations that were given to us there. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to be true — and we have no reason to believe that they are not! — the clarifications which have been provided to Parliament by fidelity, it is not true that any mass eviction action is under way, but it is true that there are situations arising from contracts that have ended their term, situations that are isolated, duly identified and that are even subject to negotiation between the parties. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is perfectly essential that this social alarm which the Left Block intends to make about this matter, promoting fear and generating instability, which is indeed its political food. But this one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not even the most important issue. We will focus on the draft resolution and what the Left Block proposes to us. Now, let's see: the Left Block calls on the Government to immediately stop this alleged mass clearance process. Well, of two, one : either fidelity is in compliance with the law, and of course the government can do nothing about it, or fidelity is not in compliance with the law and, in that case, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the matter is the subject of courts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u228	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the principle of the separation of powers which prevails in a state of democratic law, as is ours, and that the Left Block seems, in a grave and gross way, to want to ignore. It is that the Bloc has asked the Government not to comply with the law of the Republic and this, in a parliamentary context, in a rule of law, is unacceptable, is serious and PSD cannot follow it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we have just said does not mean that the Social Democratic Party does not solidarity with all people and families who are in a situation of housing fragility due to the cessation of those contracts and that this does not deserve a careful look by the public authorities. [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this leads us to another discussion, leads us to yesterday's discussion. It is the State that has to provide a decent housing for all and the Left Block must use its energies to claim the State, the Government — the same government that you support — which promotes the right to housing for all, instead of repeatedly demanding that the private, the small owners, the economic agents provide the social policy that the State has to do and does not, with what you live quietly, by supporting the Government. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, what does not help the right to housing is to clear people, because if we are discussing this matter today is because there is something indisputable: there was a law that was drawn up by the then Minister, Assumption Cristas, who was brought to Parliament and was approved by the PSD and the CDS. And the result is in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u231	There was no clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u232	Unfortunately, fidelity did only one thing: it took advantage of the gift that the then Christian Minister had offered him.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u233	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u234	And they got out of the fave!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u235	He held on to this gift and said: "Well, if we have more than 1500 buildings, how are we going to turn them into a right to housing into a business? Now, let's start with Santo António dos Cavalieros, where there are three towers that actually make it possible to make an investment more profitable», which is allowed to the loyalty group after it has also been privatized by PSD and CDS. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are today discussing a situation that, first of all, is the responsibility of the former Government, the PSD and the CDS, either as regards the privatization of fidelity, or as regards the law of evictions. In view of this, we had only two things to do and Parliament did them! On 13 April, a draft resolution of the CFP was voted on, which was adopted with the votes against — we are not surprised either! — the PSD and CDS, who voted against things as simple as this: « Develops all efforts to ensure the immediate suspension of the threat of evictions in the Towers of Fidelity, in Santo António dos Cavalleiros and in all the municipalities with identical processes, and guarantees the right to housing for these families ; creates a committee to follow up this process with representatives of the Government, the authorities and the Commission of Residents. Is this something that prevents PSD and CDS from voting in favor? It is! Because it makes it very clear that, rather than a law of eviction, the CFP proposes otherwise, it proposes a law of lease. It is exactly the opposite of what you have done! This resolution was adopted and, exclusively, determined and brave of the struggle of the inhabitants of Santo António dos Cavalieros was possible to stop the process of eviction in Santo António dos Cavalieros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u236	It does not involve the House Committee, Mrs Deputies. He's sick!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u237	Regarding the eight residents who had been notified — eight residents, I repeat — fidelity forced the process to renegotiate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u238	So it wasn't hundreds? Oh, my God! Were they not thousands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u239	But it's true, sirs. Members, that the process is not finalised, particularly in other councils, and the honourable Member, who is elected by Lisbon, even knows that in Lisbon, Fidelity continues to deliver letters not to renew the contract to the residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u240	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u241	It is true, Mr. Member, and in Oeiras too! And it does not cease to be curious that, in addition, it is still sending letters to increase income, because besides not renewing the contract, loyalty still wants that while people continue there, the value of income increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u242	There is a lot of demagogy and lies, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u243	Therefore, there is still much to do and this is not just about the PCP project, which was approved with votes against the PSD and CDS. It is, in fact, necessary to revoke the law on evictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u245	It is not possible to defend the right to housing based on the principle that there is a law that aims to dispose of persons administratively. from the PCP, we will continue to follow the struggle of the residents and it is to elementary justice that is so because the right to housing is enshrined in the Constitution. Housing is a right, it is not a business, however it costs PSD and CDS, and it is necessary to revoke the law of evictions and create mechanisms that defend and promote the right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u246	by the way, the gentlemen are alone on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u247	Therefore, the residents of Santo António dos Cavaliers and the residents affected by this problem can of course continue to count on the PCP. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u248	To close the debate, I give the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I don't know if the CDS and PSD were in the same hearing as the Commission in which I was,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u250	I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u251	...but Fidelity confirms the sale of 1299 fires by the end of this year. Loyalty cannot guarantee that these residents will continue, beyond this sale, in their home.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u252	But the elderly are protected!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u253	Mrs Sandra Pereira, I don't know if you have any idea that your government has alienated loyalty and that this was a housing owned by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u254	Arrested by the State?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u255	The PSD now calls for public investment in housing, but it was totally the opposite of what they did while they could. at this time, the problem was again postponed only by the question of loyalty if you rule out this building and move on to an investment fund, which will be the one to deal with these same residents here at two, three years, to return to the same question. The Left Block either, with this project, guarantees the right to housing, not the right to the market. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u256	Ended discussion of draft resolution No 1479 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), we move on to the next item on our agenda, with the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 828 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Replacement of the term of validity of driving letters of categories EC, D1, D1E, D, DE for the 65 years of age ( second amendment to the Regulation on Legal Authorisation to Conduct, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 138 / 2012 of 5 July, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ) ( PCP ) and 862 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the change in the age limit of the driving licence for drivers of categories D1, D1E, D, DE, and EC, as amended by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ( BE ), in general, and of draft resolutions 520 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — For the right to reform without penalties for professions with age limit for their exercise ( PCP ) and 1592 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the age limit for the exercise of the occupation of heavy vehicles driver and guarantee of non-criminalisation in the value of the retirement pension ( The Greens ). To begin the debate and to present your initiatives, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u257	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u258	Sir, just a moment please. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are at various points in the Hemicycle are in favour of taking your seats and helping create conditions for the normal development of our work. This in anticipation of being heard and before returning the floor to Mr Bruno Dias. [[Pause.]] I think the conditions are now created. Mr Bruno Dias, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has promoted this agenda and this initiative in the defence of the rights of drivers and in the defence of road safety, taking into account Decree-Law No 40 / 2016, which the Government approved with a set of amendments to the legal framework of the driving licence, simplification of procedures, etc. , and which was presented under the Simplex Programme. In addition to these simple measures, the Government approved in this diploma the increase of the maximum age for driving in categories D, D + E, in sub-categories D1 and DL + E and also in category C + E for vehicles with a gross weight of more than 20 tonnes. This has nothing to do with reducing bureaucracy. This is, in fact, a factor that exacerbates exploitation and attacks on workers' rights, particularly those of heavy-duty motorists in the road transport of passengers and goods. The limitation of age in the exercise of certain professions does not result from arbitrary or random decisions but, rather, from the concrete assessment of working conditions and their implications for the worker's health, physical and psychological wear and potential consequences for safety. In the case of drivers, including heavy vehicles and passenger and goods (including dangerous goods), road safety is concerned first and foremost. Many lives have been overcome by fatigue situations among workers in this sector and the risks associated with this activity are undeniably increasing as the age of drivers becomes more advanced. In addition, we stress the position of the Ombudsman's Office, precisely defending the claim of FECTRANS ( Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ) for the purpose of the right to reform at the age of 65 without penalties, and I quote: « this State body cannot cease to establish a parallel between the situation of these heavy-duty drivers and co-pilots of commercial passenger, cargo or mail public transport aircraft, which, also due to legal taxation, cannot carry out their professional activity beyond the age of 65». Since the grounds for setting up a specific scheme for them and I quote again, « are, in essence, the same as those which justify and impose, for reasons of justice, equality and legality, the adoption of legislative measures similar to the situation of motorists of passenger vehicles and goods», thus requesting the Ombudsman to ensure that the Government at that time "consider the adoption of a legislative measure in that sense". That's what we're proposing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. There is no evidence of any changes in the concrete reality that could justify the decision to annul and remove the preventive standards that were in force until 2016. It is not possible to consider that the potential risks that have been posed so far have disappeared. On the other hand, at no time did the government advance any basis, any arguments, any idea but to justify or defend this measure, and it is clear that the only simplification that existed here is when the unbridled exploitation is further facilitated. The CFP proposal is very simple: to repeal these rules which increase the age limit for the driving of heavy vehicles and, together, to enshrine the right to reform without penalties for that limit for the exercise of the profession. We do not abdicate our struggle for the elimination of these sustainability factors in increasing the age of reform, as well as the protection of workers with long-term careers, but in the specific case of drivers we are already moving forward with concrete solutions that respond to the concrete problem that is put in place. The Government was sorry to have created this problem and could and should have dealt with its resolution. He didn't. It is now within the reach of the Assembly of the Republic, with the approval of these proposals from the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u260	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 862 / XIII ( 3. a ), from the Left Block, to be approved, will restore the age limit for the validity of the driving licence for professional heavy goods and passengers drivers aged 65 and thus correct an injustice and resolve a legal breach. In fact, Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July introduced several amendments to the Road Code, including a set of rules relating to conditions for obtaining driving licences, including the extension of the « period of validity of driving licences for categories D1, D1E, D, DE and EC, the maximum permissible mass of which exceeds 20 000 kg until the day before the date on which their holders complete 67 years of age ». Of all trade union organizations in the sector, we have been warned that the change made has had serious repercussions on the conditions of access to reform without penalties by professionals from 65 years of age and, on the other hand, the activity itself has been carried out beyond 65 years of age has been closed to some professions. Thus, as the representative organisations of workers refer to, the unilateral legislative amendment undermines the social protection rights of professional drivers who, at the age of 65, are considered unfit to perform their duties. This is the result of Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code, which in its Article 117. the, determines that « where the professional title is removed from the worker by decision no longer allowing an appeal, the contract expires as soon as the parties are notified of the decision ». Thus, the lack of a professional driver's degree, which is not only the driving licence but also the driver's qualification card and the driver's fitness certificate, in the event that a professional is considered unfit for driving in the context of compulsory health examination at age 65, may determine the compulsive transition to a situation where the contract of employment is broken. In addition, changing the driving age limit for 67 years implies double injustice in penalizing access to reform. On the basis of the year 2016 and considering the conditions for access to the reform that existed at that time, note the following examples: before the entry into force of the Decree-Law, the retirement at age 65 allowed a pension of €831, 27 ; after the entry into force of the Decree-Law, the same pension at age 65 implies a pension which reduces it to €714, €16, i.e. - 14 % of one day to the other; and even after the entry into force of the Decree-Law, the retirement at age 66 and 4 months determines a pension of €846, 10 therefore an increase of only €14 for more than 14 months of work. These examples demonstrate that it is essential not only that heavy-duty drivers have access to a pension without penalties, but also that the special penoness associated with the exercise of the activity and thus the safety of people and goods is being guarded. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u262	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we really want to fight for road safety in our country at the most various levels and if we seriously understand that heavy-duty driver's profession has a very particular physical and psychological wear, we cannot keep the regime currently in force nor the maximum driving age for these drivers nor the retirement age. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that heavy-duty drivers of goods and passengers could only exercise their profession until they were 65 years old, by imposing the last revalidation of the legal clearance for driving, which occurred at the age of 60, and from which they could exercise their activity for another five years, therefore until the age of 65. With the increase in the retirement age, there is an inhibition of exercising the profession and a brutal penalty in the transition to reform, with a general reduction in the value of pensions payable to these workers, who are therefore placed « between the sword and the wall». In view of the problem created, the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ( FECTRANS ) requested an opinion from the Ombudsman, who assumed that, « considering the validity of the argument made by FECTRANS, this State body cannot cease to establish a parallelism with pilots and co-pilots of aircraft(... ), which also by legal imposition cannot carry out their professional activity beyond 65 years ». Now in 2016, with the amendment to the Road Code, what did the government do? Instead of solving this problem, it created a relatively absurd pseudo-solution. This is because, for heavy-duty drivers, the government has decided to increase from 65 to 67 years of age the maximum age for driving to then be covered by the retirement age. The truth is, when the law determined that these drivers could only lead until they were 65 years old, it was not for any blessing or occasional conjuncture, but because it assumed that it was a profession of physical and psychological wear and that it was also a way to ensure road safety and the people and goods transported on our roads. It is thus incomprehensible that this increase in the age limit for the exercise of the profession has been established, even more so without the representative organisations of heavy passenger and freight vehicle drivers being heard, when the specificity of the exercise of this profession and its wear is no longer recognized, as I said. In the face of a problem, therefore, a new injustice is added. Heavy-duty and mechanical vehicle drivers and their organisations have come to claim recognition of the specificity of this work and its wear and thus the replacement of the age limit for the exercise of activity in the age of 65 and, of course, the creation of a special regime allowing these workers to have access to the reform at the age of 65 without any penalty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are thousands of heavy-duty motorists in the country, workers transporting people and goods, with great importance to the national economy, demanding their responsibility for the safety of people. There are studies in the field of health that show that these workers are more vulnerable, in view of the exercise of the activity, to certain diseases, recognizing the wear involved in the profession. Considering, then, that it is of the most fundamental justice that the replacement of the age limit for the exercise of heavy-duty motor vehicle activity in the 65 years due to its physical and psychological wear, as well as the creation of a special regime allowing these workers to have access to the reform at the age of 65 without any penalty, The Greens present exactly this proposal for a clear recommendation to the Government of this guideline which must be given by the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u264	Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on a number of initiatives which address the age limit for the exercise of the heavy-duty vehicle driver's profession and the retirement age. The Government, in 2016, extended the validity of these driving licences to 67 years of age. Until this amendment, the period of validity was 65 years and, with the extension of the retirement age, the workers carrying these letters were prevented from carrying out their professional activity. Some neighbouring countries allow driving licences to be maintained up to 65 years of age by medical report. These projects have three underlying questions. The first, clearly in the draft resolutions, has to do with the age of reform and the possibility of exceptions or exceptions to certain professions. This is a melindarous problem, as the sustainability of social security is increasingly at stake, with the increase of the average life expectancy that has happily occurred and the severe decrease in the birth rate, since in 2017 fewer than 2702 children were born than in 2016 and Portugal has the second worst birth rate in Europe already aged. Because we are worried, we have come to insist on the need for this problem to be the subject of analysis by all parties. Unfortunately, the radical left parties have chosen to « cover the sun with the sieve», fleeing the discussion. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Sustainability of social security and birth are structural problems that require serious reflection. Young people deserve that, our children and grandchildren deserve that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u267	Where is the PSD proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u268	The second question has to do with the impact on the companies of the existence of workers with the category of drivers who do not have the ability to drive and are not old for reform: in large companies they can do other functions, but in small enterprises this is a problem. The third question concerns road safety, which is a very grateful subject for the PSD, and the fight against road sinequality must be a national design. From 2006 to 2015, fatalities and serious injuries decreased, but data from 2017 and the first months of this year show that we are getting worse: deaths in road accidents in Portugal increased 14 % from 2016 to 2017. Certainly because of a lack of human resources and to save what is not seen, the government has reduced monitoring and awareness and too many cars have prescribed. In 2017, they died on the scene of the accident 509 people and we had 2181 serious injuries. These numbers represent pain and suffering for families and represent damage to public finances. About 1 / 3 of work accidents are road accidents and too many people die victims of road accidents in Portugal. Because they die slowly, society does not act and does not scream and because society does not scream, the government has not given the matter the importance it deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u269	Leave the screams there and approve but it's the proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u270	And how will the PSD vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u271	Usually, with advancing age, we're losing faculties, but this loss isn't the same for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, rather than restricting the validity of the driving licence to 67 years, or to 65 years, because it does or is nice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u272	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u273	Just a moment, Mr. President. As I said, rather than restricting the validity of the driving licence to 67 years or 65 years of age, should not one choose to depend on the validity of the letter of an annual medical report, and the age limit may be higher, as in other countries? This is a subject that deserves reflection and the PSD is available to do so. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u274	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These initiatives, brought by the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Bloc and the Green Party, deserve, on our part, discussion in two moments. A first step concerns road prevention. I believe that there is a broad consensus that it is essential that we protect traffic safety and prevent road accidents. It is not clear, by analysing the report of the National Road Safety Authority ( ANSR ), that the older population is the one with the most accidents. Nevertheless, it is a fact that, in terms of pedestrians and drivers over 75 years of age, there is a higher incidence of both death and loss of certain features. That is precisely why the law provides that the driving licences for heavy-duty vehicles, whether they are goods — they may even be dangerous materials — be passengers, have their own legislation, as is the case with the transport of children and young people. Parliament, the country and the Government have been able to distinguish these driving licences for transport under special conditions and with maximum danger from others and therefore the problem is solved. I will say that there is some reasonableness in the proposals brought here today, in particular with regard to the difficulty caused by the increase in the retirement age for 67 years and, of course, the possibility of prejudice in access to reform. But on this issue, there are other problems that should be assessed and which are not clear, and so we will have to discuss and deepen. This is the case, for example, of something that the Communist Party has announced but about which it was not very clear, which is the sustainability of social security, and is also the case of something that has been mentioned still now, which is the impact that this measure can have on micro, small and medium-sized transport companies and goods, in view of the need to keep inactive people, inactive workers, who at the same time cannot exercise their profession. It is therefore necessary to find some balance and, therefore, the CDS abstain-CL will be voting on the initiatives, in order to allow these issues to be deepened, because it is true that we must continue to protect this population, this transport sector, because, in itself, this is a rapidly worn-out profession, with a different pressure, and it has, in fact, different conditions from the others, but it is necessary to assess whether or not we are causing irreversible damage to the capacity of social security to guarantee a fair and balanced reform for all. It is in this scenario that we put the discussion and, therefore, we think that there is reasonableness in the proposals but not-CL - we will - so that, in the field of expertise, we can better deepen these matters and, perhaps, be more balanced in solutions, since both trade unions and companies, both the National Road Safety Authority itself, draw attention to this difficulty in protecting this transport sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u276	Also for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party on providing us with this relevant debate on the theme of the maximum age for the driving licence for heavy vehicles. Understanding the Socialist Party some of the labour issues that are being raised today, as well as the questions on road safety, we cannot fail to record and regret that the PSD, in its previous intervention, blamed the government, as it had never happened, by road safety numbers, when it was never that which was involved. It's a meaningless thing and it's said in a way that doesn't make any sense either. However, by replacing the matter with the change made in 2016, the age limit for driving vehicles of categories D, D1, DE, D1E and EC, whose maximum authorised mass exceeds 20 t, increased from 65 to 67 years of age. But current government legislation cautions, and well, road safety, as it marks the driver's requirement to maintain physical, mental and psychological fitness. It's everyone's safety. This amendment allowed Portugal to monitor the reality of the other countries of the European Union. For example, only Italy presents this limit in legislation. It also adds that the Community Directive on this subject does not set a maximum limit for driving motor vehicles, only determining that in the case of drivers in Group II, where they are inserted, the letter should be revalidated. This amendment came into force in view of the fact that the age of the reform is not adequate to the age limit for the driving of these vehicles, and there are drivers who wanted to continue to exercise the profession after the age of 65, which, with these determinations, could not do so because they were not suitable. At pension level, we have to separate matters, because the discussion does not make sense, while the existing decree does not move into the age limit of reform. in this area of social security, the PS has always defended the uniformization of the legal age of reform. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as it does on any subject, has been available to dialogue on this subject with the representative organisations of workers and companies. We will always defend road safety and will not allow the safety of our roads and our children or daughters to be put into question, but that is not what is at stake in this debate. We will continue the dialogue with the unions, with the representative organisations of the workers and with the companies, in order to find the best solutions for the sector, and we will be available to find the best solutions to meet these needs as a specialist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u278	For one last intervention in this debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, we want to say that it is worth fighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u281	And our word at this stage of the debate is for the workers, for the drivers, for their organisations, who have fought over these years and who have tried to raise awareness of the Assembly of the Republic, the Government, the sovereign bodies for the need to take these measures. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Finally, we will give a fair and adequate answer to that just claim. The solution that guarantees balance and that safeguards micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is the approval of the two CFP proposals, not to force these drivers to drive until later and to allow the transition to reform, without penalty, from the moment they cannot drive. It's very simple!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u282	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u283	Apart from the substantive issues and the substantive discussion on social security, we have a very specific question: drivers should not continue to drive until 67 years of age or older, but on the other hand, there cannot be a double injustice, which is not to allow them to move to reform without penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u284	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u285	This, if not done, also penalises SMEs. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution is in sight, it is only to approve the projects under discussion. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u286	Mrs. Members, completed the debate of the projects of lein.o 828 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 862 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), generally together with draft resolutions 520 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 1592 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), we will move to the seventh point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 1560/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers ( BE ). To present the initiative, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block took the initiative to present the proposal for the setting up of this committee of inquiry not only because it was an old necessity, after the repeated finding over the years that there is, in the Portuguese electricity system, a system of excessive incomes which has consistently penalized consumers and the economy, but also because the public information on ongoing investigations into the operation of the former Minister of Economics Manuel Pinho, which was constituted in process for the benefit of EDP and, later, also in the context of the receipt of a meal paid by the Banco Espírito Santo, created a cry for full clarification, not only on what the size of these incomes and their nature, but also on how the decisions that gave rise to them were made. The Left Block, in its proposal for a committee of inquiry, received a number of contributions, given by all parties, about its content. The CDS, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party gave concrete suggestions on what should be the scope of this commission of inquiry about the electric sector. Today, this content focuses on the costs, on the legislative changes and their reason, on the incomes installed in the production in special arrangements, on the operation of regulators, on the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector and how it has been applied, on the existence of favour and corruption in the decisions taken. The Left Block received critical comments from the PSD on the assumptions it announced. However, what we are going to vote on is not the assumptions and positions of the Left Block that lead to this initiative, but the initiative itself and the scope of the investigation and, on that, the PSD did not raise any obstacle. The Communist Party proposed that the commission of inquiry could also be extended to public-private partnerships ( PPP ) in health, in the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) and in the transport and harmful decisions for the national economy taken in connection with the privatization of banks, insurance, communications, telecommunications and airports. The consideration of the Left Block was that an extension of this scope, as proposed by the Communist Party, would in fact mean an inquiry committee to three decades of the Portuguese economy, with all the problems it had, but certainly with very little results in relation to the product of this committee of inquiry. Our aim, with this proposal, as I said, is not only to clarify the nature of these incomes and the nature of the decisions that gave rise to them, but also to achieve results that allow Parliament to take the legislative initiative to correct this abuse that has lasted too many years and has penalized Portuguese consumers and the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u288	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens, in line with the availability already publicly stated, also follow the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to pay excessive income to electricity producers. And we follow this proposal as we will follow other proposals which, in our view, can help to clarify various businesses or contracts involving public money. We do so for all reasons, but also for the demands of a culture of democratic responsibility. In particular, it is important to understand the exact contours that have involved several negotiations that have led to the situation that we continue to live and that cause taxpayers to pay absolutely abusive income to electricity producers. It is important to understand the weight or degree of public interest in various government decisions on these issues, whether in the so-called "energy acquisition contracts" ( CAE ), whether in the following figure, the so-called "contractual balance maintenance costs" ( CMEC ). But it is also important to clarify or clarify the successive reports that have come in the social communication on this subject and that they suggest unhealthy relations, not to say promiscuity, dangerous and unrecommendable relations, between economic power and political power. Therefore, regardless of the relevance or the legal-penal dimension that these cases may gain, which will naturally be examined at their own level, which are the courts and the criminal investigation bodies, and because we are talking about relations between economic power and political power, The Greens also consider that this matter has all relevance to this House of the Republic, which therefore has the duty to ascertain and examine everything that has happened and to do with all the instruments or mechanisms available to it, whether legally or from the point of view of law, and therefore also through a parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u290	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without drifting away from the project under discussion and for future memory, we must keep alive the journey that has brought us here. It all started with the amazing news—and « hideous» means little — of alleged monthly payments of around €15 000 from the GES Group to Manuel Pinho, or the offshore society on its behalf, for more than 10 years, each month, more precisely between 2002 and 2012, that is, including all the time he was Minister of Economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u292	This news, to join others who have the socialist governments of José Socrates as a common element, where many of the current leaders and leaders of the Socialist Party were pontificated, aroused surprise and a heavy socialist silence. It was the PSD that demanded explanations and determined the submission of a request to bring the visa Manuel Pinho to Parliament. in a register that is becoming fashionable, management tries to turn concrete into generic, clear questions into opaque answers and today's hearings into committees of inquiry over the next few months. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u293	Meanwhile, the PS of António Costa, who for years and years took pride in the socialist governments of Socrates, hastened to drop the same Socrates and all that smells like Piinho. [[PSD laughter.]] [[PS protests.]] Having said otherwise and in a happy image, the Socialist Party has noticed and the Portuguese are realizing that the presence in the socialist governments of Socrates is moving from political curriculum to political register. [[Well remembered!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u294	However, and to distract attention, comes the Block of Left to present this draft commission of inquiry, covering 14 years, repeat, 14 years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u295	That's what's bothering you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u296	... of successive governments, to analyze the payment of income and allowances to electricity producers. As the people say, ‘who is too short-sighted’ — is that the intention? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u297	The PSD is looking very tight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u298	The PSD well understands your discomfort, but we will accept the challenge. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u299	But let's be serious: do you really want the investigation? Do you really want the truth? Are we not going to have another commission like the General Deposit Box, in which even the Ministry of Finance has served to interfere with resources and prevent access to the truth? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] Is it serious this time or do you take the conclusions in your pocket? Oh, my God! on our part, we will be active, attentive and consequent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u300	You've run out of time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u301	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying on our part, we will be active, attentive and consistent, but we will not fail to denounce everything they intend to do to prevent or condition the work of the committee, either by action or by omission, and it will take a few days to realize what the management is coming and whether we will have a new parliamentary left wing. But at no time will we allow the huge elephant...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u302	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u303	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, at no time will we allow the huge elephant who walks through this hall and who respects the lead years of the socialist governments of the last decade to be forgotten or hidden, because the Portuguese are tired of lies, new and old, and they want the truth. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u304	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government have always stated that there is a basic idea for an energy policy closer to the interests of citizens and that base idea is cheaper energy. When the PS arrived at the government in 2015, we found ourselves at the highest prices of electricity and natural gas in the European context. As you all know, this aspect strongly conditions the competitiveness and also the economic and social cohesion of the country. Therefore, the first note I would like to leave on the establishment of this committee of inquiry is that we hope that its purposes can contribute to helping the Government to further correct energy costs, acting more effectively in an essential aspect of price formation, which is that of the sector's incomes, as we all know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u307	In fact, Mr. Paulo Rios, we have been working on this issue and our political options clearly contrast with those of the PSD/CDS government, which in 2014 through Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva, decreed that there were no more excessive incomes in the sector. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, there is a difference between PS and PSD and CDS, which in the past decreed the end of excessive incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, let me say that the PS has already worked in the energy sector to ensure that we have lower energy costs today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u308	Ui! He's actuated! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u309	We have already acted, for example, in the correction of double support for wind and solar power plants, which you have allowed for a long time; we have also worked in the operation of power guarantee mechanisms, introducing the operation of the market and the auction mechanism, reducing costs; we have also acted in the interruptability regime, which is cheaper today, because we only pay those who actually use this mechanism. This government has also prevented the EESC (extraordinary contribution to the energy sector) and the cost of social tariff from falling on taxpayers, which the PSD and the CDS would like to see happen with the diploma they signed before the elections. As regards the income to be paid to EDP, the so-called « CMEC » ( cost of maintaining the contractual balance ), in respect of which this commission of inquiry will speak, was this government that requested the intervention of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which eventually warned that there were excessive incomes, and will be lower in the future by decision of this Government of the Socialist Party. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The second note I wanted to make was to make it clear that the PS has a significant heritage...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u310	If you do! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u311	...in favour of transparency and scrutiny mechanisms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So we don't get lessons from anyone, much less from the PSD and CDS. This committee of inquiry is a fundamental regulatory mechanism, which serves the political interest in behalf of people. And, Mr. Paulo Rios, we absolutely refuse that this committee of inquiry becomes a funnel for isolated cases, for political dividends that you want to take. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u312	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u313	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, a third and final note to tell all Members that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be body and soul in this committee of inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u314	Let's see, let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u315	...to ensure that it is possible to draw lessons from the past to do better than we are doing and what we have done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u316	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS agrees with the establishment of this committee of inquiry and notes the fact that the contributions it has made, as regards its object, have been received.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u318	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u319	This committee of inquiry will be all the more effective in the areas we want to assess, i.e., in which circumstances, which interests have sought to protect when certain political decisions have been made, many of them rational and good, and for which it is important to know whether the speech, the intention, has gone into practice with regard to the protection of the system. So what do we want to know? We want to know whether the reasonable liberalisation of the market and the creation of the MIBEL ( Iberian Electricity Market ), which transforms Portugal not into an energy island but into an enlarged market and which gave rise to the CAE (energy acquisition contracts), i.e. a guarantee of discharge, was reasonable or unreasonable. We also want to know whether the good bet on renewables, which gave rise to a special production scheme, i.e. guaranteed tariff, was reasonable or unreasonable. We also want to know whether the proper protection of the market and of consumers has been done or not, since what is confirmed is that, through the ICES, the costs of general economic interest, consumers have been called to pay far above the market, subsidized to the electro-producer sector, they have been called to be responsible — and here I apologize a great deal but there is a minister, Manuel Pinho, who is the author of the tariff deficit — in a decision against the regulator, against the market and against the announced ideas and policies of the famous reduction of costs and betting on renewables. That is, it was the first shock between reality and science fiction or energy fiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u321	And, as I said, the regulator has total autonomy to set tariffs, but the government is sovereign in legislative matters. Well, that had a high cost in excessive incomes. We also need to know why for so long several governments have not been able to reduce excessive rates and revenues. I am still waiting for the current Government to present a legislative instrument, a document, an effective saving, and I have to counter what the former Government has done, which, by supporting what was coming in the Memorandum of Understanding and in the recommendations of the troika, approved a portatoria for cogeneration, Portaria No 140 / 2012, which saved EUR 996 million, approved Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 on small water plants, which saved EUR 285 million, and could list here a set of initiatives. It was indeed, Mr. Carlos Pereira, the only government that, in concrete terms, cut into excessive incomes. We also want to know, in conclusion, why did Minister Manuel Pinho make an extension in the water sector of 27 more dams, paying an income that is not noticed, against the opinions of several entities, which pointed to very, but very small numbers. I mean, we have a lot of work here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u322	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u323	We want to be focused, we want to be serious and competent, and perhaps we will give the committees of inquiry, Parliament and the country a contribution that has not been made so far in terms of excessive income. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u324	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of electro-producer super-profits will have to be clarified criminally, but it is, above all, a political problem. The most recent case, involving former Minister Manuel Pinho, EDP, BES, and also former Minister Antonio Mexia, is inseparable from the recovery of monopoly power, the process of privatization, from submission to external taxation that served as a pretext to many of these privatizations and, of course, also from the growing subordination of political power to economic power. What some have only recently discovered, for years it has been the subject of strong and continuous denunciation of the PCP. The turnover of tables between government bodies and economic groups demonstrates the use of the State as an instrument of undeclared interests, which the CFP has systematically denounced and fought. The relations of promiscuity and submission of political power to economic power, the links of frameworks and leaders of large companies and economic groups that have assumed governmental responsibilities in successive governments, the options of privatizations, with decisions taken in untransparent processes in a framework of strong suspicions of corruption and trafficking in influence, all of this confirms the continued subordination of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS to economic power, as one of the elements that characterizes right-wing policy and that most corrode democracy. The BES/GES scandal was, moreover, a flagrant example of this circumstance, and then the PCP denounced the way this economic group has influenced former political and government officials, including Manuel Pinho, and apparently in the face of the disregard of some PSD Members, who now in the last row protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u326	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u327	All of this required the Assembly of the Republic to make a more comprehensive assessment and address the set of links between successive governments and major companies and economic groups, starting with other decisions of former Minister Manuel Pinho. Let's remember here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in 2008 was this former Minister who sold the Aljustrel mines for 1 € to an international group, in a process that cannot stay out of scrutiny which should also be done by this committee of inquiry. But in other situations — in PT, in CTT, in SIRESP, in ANA - Airports de Portugal, in the bank, in the submarines — we find examples of privatizations, concessions and PPPs that fall within the process of favoring the great economic interests, misconceptions and with serious consequences for the country. And it's not about you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conduct the three or four decades of government scrutiny, it is a question of carrying out an examination of current charges resulting from decisions taken in the past by other governments, also marked by suspected corruption and trafficking of influence, with serious public interest damage. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] In our view, in the view of the CFP, the Assembly of the Republic should not look heavily at all these situations. We have made proposals to ensure that superlights in the electro-producer sector are properly scrutinized, and we have also proposed the extension of the commission of inquiry, so that all these suspicious situations can be examined. Although it has accepted the part of the proposals concerning superlucres, the Left Block has rejected the possibility of further investigation and, therefore, the same will be limited to the one which should be the comprehensive clearance to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u328	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u329	on our part, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to stop the fight against the practices of government submission to economic power and corruption and to bring the economic groups together, which we must continue to do. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u330	In order to intervene, in the time still available, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor of the Block de Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u331	Mr President, I just wanted to point out that, with regard to the temporal scope of our initiative, it was very conscious of the option of covering the political choices made by governments prior to Manuel Pinho, not to omit or back up the role that Manuel Pinho had in defining these incomes, and had, yes, and above all, to know how they were created. This was the time of the PSD/CDS governments, where in fact we will find ourselves in the offices—and this will be work for the commission of inquiry—people who are common to those whom we then find in the time of Manuel Pinho. Regarding the scope of the committee and the criticism presented by the Portuguese Communist Party, we recognize the very important work that the Communist Party has had over the years in the denunciation of these excessive incomes. I would like to remind you, in particular, of the role of Mr Agostinho Lopes in this complaint. It was very important and, if I may vote at the moment, I hope that this committee of inquiry will continue the work that Mr Lopes has done for many years and draw definitive conclusions on the criminal mistakes that have been made by successive governments in these excessive incomes against consumers and against the economy, and that they can be corrected for consumers and the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u332	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. First of all, it is important to check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic table records 211 presences to which 3 are added by the Members. Mr Nuno Sá, from the PS, Maria Manuel Rola, from BE, and Paulo Sá, from the PCP, making a total of 214 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 532 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — From praise to the tennis player João Sousa for the victory in Estoril Open, presented by the CDS-PP and PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies, who will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u333	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On May 6, 2018, Vimaranese João Sousa made history in national sport by sagrating himself winner of Estoril Open, becoming the first Portuguese to conquer the most important tennis tournament in the country and the only lunatic proof of the ATP circuit. João Pedro Coelho Marinho de Sousa is 29 years old and has been a practicer of fashion since the age of seven. throughout his career has consolidated his position, his third victory in tournaments ATP 250, after Kuala Lumpur ( Malaysia ), in 2013, and Valencia ( Spain ), in 2015. With the victory in Estoril Open, João Sousa ascended to 48. the world ranking place, which was worth reentry to top 50. Its best position has always been that of 28. the place in the ATP ranking. Taking the vimaranian claw as part of his identity, João Sousa is an example of persistence, dedication and determination for the younger layers and for all national sports, as well as a pride for all Portuguese. In addition to being the best Portuguese tennis player ever, João Sousa has stood out as an example of her personal qualities. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates Portuguese João Sousa, recognizing the greatest dimension of its fact. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u334	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 533 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemnation by the US of the nuclear agreement with Iran, submitted by the Greens, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u335	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The President of the United States of America communicated the US exit from the Nuclear Agreement with Iran, also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which was signed in July 2015, after almost two years of international negotiations between Iran and Group 5 + 1 ( the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, Russia, China, France and the United Kingdom ), which aims at the end of the Iranian nuclear weapons programme, in exchange for a progressive lifting of international sanctions. It is absolutely regrettable and condemnable this decision of the US Administration, which represents a backwardness in the achievements achieved and which may have serious consequences for world peace and security. The United States is therefore calling into question this agreement, which aims at non-proliferation of nuclear power, adding that it will again impose economic sanctions at the highest level, claiming that Iran has not complied with the agreement, which is not proved by the International Atomic Energy Agency that Iran has so far fulfilled its commitments. Nuclear disarmament must be a central issue in the defence of peace and the security and survival of peoples and all living beings on the planet, combating the dangerous threat posed by nuclear, and this agreement is therefore a positive instrument that needs to be met. The United States is making a serious mistake by announcing that this agreement, a position that has only been supported by Israel and Saudi Arabia, and is harming the efforts made so far towards the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. What is expected is that the signatories to the Nuclear Agreement with Iran will continue their work and their determination to effectively meet the objectives set out. The Assembly of the Republic condemns the decision announced by the President of the United States of America to withdraw the Nuclear Agreement with Iran, calling on the signatory countries to abide by their commitments. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u336	Mrs. Members, I declare that I will also participate in this vote. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the members of the PS Ascension Simões, the Bachelor of Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, Margarida Marques, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Porfirio Silva, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães.]] Then we have vote No 534 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings for the determination of the European Union and Iran to maintain the nuclear agreement despite the departure from the United States, submitted by the PS, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u337	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Nuclear Agreement with Iran, JCPOA ( Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ), was signed on 14 July 2015 by the five permanent members of the UN Security Council : United States, China, Russia, France and the United Kingdom ; and by Germany, the European Union and Iran. The Agreement, seen as a strong guarantee of regional security, imposes a regime for regular monitoring of Iran's nuclear commitments by the International Atomic Energy Agency — IAEA. According to analysts, Iran has fulfilled its obligations and IAEA has conducted 11 field inspections since January 2016. Unfortunately, the President of the United States of America decided to abandon the agreement on 8 May last, again establishing "enforced" sanctions for Iran and those who support the Iranian regime. However, both the European Union and Russia, China and Iran remain determined to keep it in force, which deserves to be praised. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, also asked the other parties to remain bound to the Agreement, which provides that Iran no longer develop nuclear weapons and the treatment of uranium for military purposes, subjecting itself to a rigorous verification regime on its activities in these areas, the change of the progressive and conditional end of sanctions imposed on the country. It is therefore regrettable that the United States' decision to withdraw from the Agreement is being encouraged, on the one hand, to return to the path of diplomatic negotiation, and on the other hand that the other partners can continue the Agreement, thus avoiding further crises and the spread of tensions in the region. The Assembly of the Republic therefore welcomes the determination of the European Union and of the other signatories to remain bound to the Nuclear Agreement signed in 2015 and urges them to comply with the commitments made in this field. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u338	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, Os Verdes and PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 536/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rejected by the US decision not to comply with the Iran nuclear agreement submitted by the CFP, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u339	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The United States of America, by the voice of its President, Donald Trump, announced on 8 May that they not only ceased to comply with the nuclear agreement they signed with Iran, the remaining four permanent members of the Security Council, China, France, the United Kingdom and Russia, Germany and the European Union, as they resumed the imposition of new and more severe sanctions against Iran. It is recalled that the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) of the United Nations, reaffirmed that Iran complies with the terms set out in the nuclear agreement designated as the Global Joint Action Plan and signed on 14 July 2015 in Vienna, Austria. As has been widely stressed, this decision by the United States of America constitutes a grave disregard by the United Nations, the principles of its Charter and international law, and represents a serious threat to peace, translating the deepening of its policy of economic, political and military confrontation in international relations, including in the Middle East, on the path of wars of aggression to Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria or Yemen. It is significant that this decision, led by Donald Trump, has been actively supported by Israel — the only nuclear-weapon country in the Middle East and not a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons — and by Saudi Arabia. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Repeals the decision of the United States of America not to comply with the nuclear agreement on Iran ; 2 — Calls upon the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in view of this decision of the United States to confront international legality, to defend the United Nations and the principles of its Charter, the only way to prevent the imposition of will, violence and war on international relations and to guarantee peace in the Middle East ; 3 — Urges the Portuguese Government to reject any further escalation of interference and aggression in the Middle East, particularly against Iran or other countries in this region. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u340	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS MPs Joana Lima, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Wanda Guimarães and abstentions from PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira, Margarida Marques, Porfirio Silva and Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 537 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — In solidarity with the people would be for the respect and realization of their right to self-determination, presented by the PCP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u341	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « For decades the United Nations has had to fulfil its commitment to respect the right to self-determination of the people in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter, international law and United Nations resolutions. For 45 years now the people have fought persistently against colonialism and their respect for and realization of their inalienable national rights, goals recognized by the United Nations, which established in 1991 the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara. The Frente Polisário proclaimed in 1976 the Arab Democratic Sahara, recognized by dozens of countries and members of the African Union. It is recalled that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic, Portugal recognizes the right of peoples to self-determination and independence and development. A just and lasting solution to the Western Sahara conflict is necessarily the end of the illegal occupation of Western Sahara by the Kingdom of Morocco and its policy of disrespecting the national rights of the people of the Sahara. at a time when efforts are being made to resume an effective negotiation process, indicating a definitive and peaceful solution to the conflict, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: 1 — Reaffirms its support for efforts to achieve a just solution for Western Sahara, which will necessarily go through the realization of the right to self-determination of the people will be, in accordance with and respect for the relevant UN deliberations, the principles of its Charter and international law ; 2 — Urges the Government, in the context of foreign policy, and in particular in the international institutions in which Portugal is represented, to promote a consequent action in order to achieve the right to self-determination of the people of Sarai. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u342	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u343	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u344	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u345	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u346	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following is vote No 538/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the US decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, submitted by the PCP, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u347	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The transfer of the Embassy of the United States from Telavive to Jerusalem by May 14 is announced, a date that coincides with the 70 of the creation of the State of Israel and Nakba, which marks the beginning of the expulsion of the Palestinian population from their lands. The decision of the United States of America to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel constitutes a clear face to international law and to the United Nations, including the numerous resolutions of its Security Council, including Resolution 478 of 20 August 1980, which determines the departure of diplomatic missions of Jerusalem, as well as Resolution 2334 of December 2016, which, condemning the continuation of the expansion of Israeli settlers in Palestinian territory, reiterates that the status of Jerusalem can only be decided by the negotiating way. This decision, representing explicit support for Israel's colonization policy, constitutes a frontal assault on the rights of the Palestinian people, who, in the face of the brutal repression of the Israeli authorities, persist in their brave struggle for the end of occupation and the creation of a free and independent state of Palestine. It should be noted that the decision of the United States of America is all the more serious because it is taken at a time when the threat of a new escalation in its policy of aggression in the Middle East, which, if not stopped, ends the danger of a huge confrontation. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Condemns the decision of the United States of America to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel; 2 — Express its solidarity with the Palestinian people; 3 — Affirms the Palestinian people's right to recognition of their own State at the borders prior to 1967 and with capital in East Jerusalem, as well as the right to return Palestinian refugees, in accordance with United Nations resolutions ; 4 — Urges the Portuguese Government to condemn this decision of the United States of America, which is a challenge to international law in respect of the Constitution of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the Deputies of PS Alexandre Quintanilla, André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino, Edite Estrela, Elza Pais, Fernando Anastácio, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, Joaquim Raposo, Luís Graza, Margarida Marques, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Porfirio Silva, Santinho Pacheco and Wanda Guimarães and PS and PAN abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, through a constitutional but binding anachronism, we will vote on draft resolution No 1596 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Salamanca ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then, if there are no objections, we will vote together two demands, one presented by the CDS-PP and one submitted by the PSD, both requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing without a vote for a period of 45 days. The CDS request refers to draft resolutions 1476 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force, ensuring their effective existence and use due, by means of a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings ( CDS-PP ) and 1477 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the protection and promotion of the lease, in particular the measures necessary for the establishment of the legal system of income insurance ( CDS-PP ) of draft law No 821 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates an incentive to rent housing, reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of income from real estate, resulting from lease contracts for housing, by amending the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions Nos 1582/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the processes of alienation to the national fund for the rehabilitation of the State building ( CDS-PP ), 1583/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, undertake the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings belonging to Colina de Santana in Lisbon, so that they may be used for housing, in a programme to be created, or already existing, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, mainly for young people and middle class families ( CDS-PP ) and 1584 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the lifting of the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon, with a view to establishing a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of rental properties for moderate housing purposes ( CDS-PP ). The request submitted by the PSD refers to draft resolutions 1586 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an income insurance ( PSD ), 1588 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a lease allowance in situations of sudden fragility ( PSD ) and 1591 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease ( PSD ). Let us then vote them together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u349	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u350	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u351	Mr President, I apologize for the distraction, but I would like to know that the Commission has lowered the diplomas set out in both requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u352	They went down to 11. the Commission, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u354	We therefore proceed to the general vote on Bill No 855 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to the Framework Law on Environmental Controls, in order to establish the principle of no prior notice of inspection and control actions ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u355	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u356	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u357	Mr President, that is to say, for reasons of conflict of interest, I did not participate in the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u358	I thought we had already made it clear that the reasons for any conflict of interest do not give rise to a non-voting, only give rise to the statement on the subject. But, as the fact is already being produced, we will move forward in the process. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1579 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government step up the adoption of measures to enable more efficient inspection procedures for economic operators ( NAPs ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1436 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate Law No 38 / 2004 of 18 August by defining the specific terms in which private employers should fill the 2 % employment share of persons with disabilities ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1437 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an assessment of the application of Decree-Law No 29/2001 of 3 February establishing the system of employment quotas for persons with disabilities with an incapacity equal to or greater than 60 % in the services and bodies of the central and local administration ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1570 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of public employment for persons with disabilities and measures to access vocational training and employment with rights ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 860 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Creates the extraordinary program for entering persons with disabilities in the Public Administration ( PEIPDAP ) ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and against the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u359	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u360	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u361	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u362	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It is only to be mentioned that the diploma we have just voted on is low to 10. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1581 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures contributing to the improvement of employability of persons with disabilities ( NAP ). The CFP requested the separate vote on point 3 and then the vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us vote on the remaining points. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 861 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a requirement for the hiring of 2 % of workers with functional diversity ( BE ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS, BE and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions to the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u363	Mr President, to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote by the CFP parliamentary group on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u364	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1593/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring the application of employment quotas for persons with disabilities ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 865 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 12. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1479 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent mass eviction in the Towers of the Trust Insurance Company in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote in general of Bill No 828 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replacement of the term of validity of driving licences for categories EC, D1, D1E, D, DE for the age of 65 ( 2 ). the amendment to the Regulation of Legal Authorisation for Conduct, as annexed to Decree-Law No 138 / 2012 of 5 July, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 520 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The right to reform without penalties for professions with age limit for their exercise ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 862 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the change in the age limit of the driver licence of categories D1, D1E, D, DE and EC, as amended by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ( BE ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and Abstentions of PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1592/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the age limit for the exercise of the occupation of heavy vehicles driver and guarantee of non-criminalisation in the value of the retirement pension ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u365	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u366	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1560/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 531 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an Organic Law of the Maritime Police, in accordance with its mission, competences and civil nature ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1523 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works in public schools in the district of Lisbon ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on Bill No 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the reopening of the possibility of requiring the reinstatement in its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No 173 / 74 of 26 April ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance, and Administrative Modernisation, on draft law No 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I have established the obligation of banking institutions to fully reflect Euribor's decline in credit contracts for housing and consumption ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on the drafts of lein.o 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the extension of research scholarship contracts, scholarship contracts within scientific research projects and similar ( PSD ), 798 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal and extension of post-doctoral scholarships until compliance with Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( PCP ) and 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension and renewal of post-doctoral research grants until the publication of the outcome of the tenders provided for in Article 23. the Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ). I would ask your attention to the following: Article 2. that of the final text there is an amendment, in due course, communicated to the Bureau, to the effect that in 5. the line of Article 2 ( 1 ). the expression ‘and they have ceased’ shall be inserted. Therefore, where it is read «... and which by virtue of the provisions...» must read «... and which have ceased by virtue of the provisions...». Let us therefore vote on the final text with this amendment. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on a request from the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, on behalf of the Commission, requesting the final drafting waiver, as well as the waiver of the deadline for complaints against inaccuracies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u367	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP intends to make an oral vote immediately after the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u368	It is recorded and, at the appropriate time, it will be-CL to give you the floor. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Parliamentary Opinions ( 45 / XIII ) ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, which regulates the transfer to the General Deposit Box, I. P., of the financial charge with the pension supplements of the workers of Carris ( BE ) and 46 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, which regulates the transfer to the General Deposit Box, I. P., of the financial charge with the pension supplements of Carris workers ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, paragraphs 67 to 78 concerning plenary meetings of 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, and 26 April 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] For a declaration of vote on the final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on the drafts of lein.o 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), 798 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE ) has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the approval of this final text, which has set out, in particular, a PCP initiative for the renewal and extension of post-doctoral scholarships until the fulfilment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017, we take a small step, only a small step, to ensure that the pockets covered by the transitional standard of the so-called "Scientific employment diploma" are not excluded from the national scientific and technological system because they have finished their scholarship or because it is in the near future to finish. It's a small step, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a small step on a long path to the struggle of post-doctoral pockets, of all pockets, indeed, in defending their rights. It fights that the PCP greatly values, saying that we will do everything so that the precariousness of science workers will end once and for all. Therefore, the first thought and the last word cannot but go, and even go, to the pocketmen and their representatives, in particular those who are present here in the galleries and who have always followed this process and have always been in the front line of the struggle for the defense of their rights. The CFP will continue to do everything possible to ensure that tenders under the transitional standard are, in fact, open and that the rights of scientific research fellows are respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u370	Also for a declaration of vote on the final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on the drafts of lein.o 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), 798 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just voted on the extension of research scholarship contracts in cases where tenders that should be taking place under the so-called scientific employment diploma have not yet been implemented. The Government has taken the initiative of a serious fight against precarious scientific employment. The Assembly of the Republic has come together and improved, in depth, the devices for this fight against precariousness in scientific employment. Unfortunately, not all institutions, nor all actors in this process have contributed to their best efforts to move this process forward within the time limits and within the responsibilities assumed by all. in this measure, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group continues to pressure and call for all to do its part. However, on this occasion, at the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, the legal framework was given to the efforts that the Government itself and the Science and Technology Foundation were making to keep no purse out of this process. We must therefore all at the same time be satisfied that we have taken this step, by legally comforting this process, but we must also continue to demand and demand that all actors do, with the necessary speed, what is necessary to consolidate this process of combating work insecurity, also in the field of science. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u372	There is also a request for an oral vote on the same vote by Mrs Margarida Mano, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u373	Mr. President and Mr. Members: PSD welcomes the fact that this process started with Bill No 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the extension of research scholarship contracts, scholarship contracts in the framework of scientific and similar research projects submitted by the PSD today to the proposals which have been made by the PCP and the Left Block in a unanimous vote. The unanimous vote today, following the PSD initiative, is a victory for the replacement of justice for all those who, on the pretext of a system set up by the Government for scientific employment—who has been bankrupt two years ago—were not responding to concrete situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u375	The PSD today has the sense of responsibility for contributing to enable scientific research fellows to see their contracts extended until the competitions are opened. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-11.u376	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains for me to announce the agenda for the next meeting, which will be next week, as is usual, on Wednesday, at 3 p.m., having as an agenda only the debate by PS marking on the theme « The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy ». The work is thus completed. Good afternoon and good weekend for all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 54 minutes.]]
