ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries, please. Let us begin our agenda today, which consists of an appeal to Government No 16/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — About « Portugal 2030 » ( PS ). In accordance with Article 227. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, for an intervention to open the debate, has the floor Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The European Union's multiannual financial framework ( FIF ) is one of the most powerful instruments for the building up and the future of the Union. For Portugal, this next framework is a challenge whose outcome is crucial for its near future. For this reason, the discussion on the guidelines, capabilities and opportunities of this new framework is crucial to the best quality and success of the Portuguese strategy in the negotiating context we are already living. It is therefore, in this recital, that the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group should be inserted in order, through the broader debate which the role of the Government in its inquiry, we shall initiate a more formal and more co-responsibility parliamentary process of assessing and clarifying the most relevant and binding issues with the national interests at stake. It was also for this reason that we decided to propose to Parliament the establishment of a possible committee to monitor the process of defining the Portugal 2030 strategy, within the framework of the multiannual post-2020 financial framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will therefore remain the Assembly, if that is its majority understanding, adequately trained for the thorough follow-up of a process whose relevance is certainly shared by all parliamentary parties. It is true that the time that separates us from the beginning and full implementation of this new framework, associated with the unpredictability of European and external developments in general and the factors already detected of instability, makes it difficult to set specific objectives. They also add to the problems posed by the reduction of resources motivated by the exit of the third largest net contributor to the Union budget, the United Kingdom, and by the emergence of other policies in areas such as migration, border protection and defence, which will consume additional costs. Since the contributing countries are no longer willing to pay and the beneficiary countries do not want to receive less from the Community funds, it is concluded that it is important to diversify and recruit other means of financing, because otherwise the penalisation of support for cohesion policy components, with great impact on the Portuguese case, will be very significant. These new forms of resource recruitment are also at stake, and this must be avoided by unfair efforts by the cohesion countries. It is recalled that Portugal, between 2009 and 2015, received three times as much as it contributed in transfers from the European Union. Even so, between 2000 and 2015 it has diverged from the European average and only since last year has the Portuguese economy grown more and the country has again converged, mobilized, also, by the increase in support of the competitiveness that the current government has provided. We can therefore easily understand, in view of all these indicators, the dimension of what might be involved in the next decade. It is thus justified that a debate as broad as sensible, considering, of course, our inclusion and our prospects for European construction, but not without the evaluation we make of national priorities, which, as we have said, cannot be dissociated from criteria of necessity, reproducibility, competitiveness and rationality. The appeal of the Portuguese Government has been to mobilize opinions to ensure the instruments for the next decade to be the « decade of convergence ». The fulfilment of this design is, in fact, in the view of the PS, essential to maintain territorial cohesion and social peace within the Union. The hypotheses that have been advanced by cuts in cohesion policy that, in the worst scenario, could reach 30 %, or even a reform that changes, without due weighting, national co-financing levels, would be very negative to us and truly flammable in the European context. It is therefore important to work on the common denominators of the Portuguese position. I believe that the general reference can be made to the defence of a cohesion policy geared towards the competitiveness of economies with greater structural weaknesses and which contributes to the economic convergence of the Member States. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For Portugal, the next framework will be a key instrument to finance the increase and improvement of the country's competitiveness factors, to modernize our economy, to reduce social disparities and to support Portugal's convergence path initiated in 2017. At the same time, we want to safeguard and actively support the strategies which the Portuguese autonomous and ultra-peripheral regions should adopt, which, while not conflicting with the national, will not cease to take root in their own circumstances. the factors already identified, and which have conditioned the consistency of our path of convergence, are more prominent, for the PS, the need to reverse the low level of qualification of Portuguese and, still, the level of unemployment, which, although in regression, remains worrying especially among young people. In view of the fact that it will certainly be privileged to direct budgetary policy to the most European added political areas, we understand, like the position which Portugal has communicated, and well establish convergence as a criterion to measure this value. The Government has outlined preliminary strategic objectives, both of a cross-cutting nature and of a territorial nature, which will be important to reaffirm and discuss within the parliamentary framework, following the debates and hearings that have taken place throughout the country, involving authorities and social and economic partners. This weighting which is required, and which we propose to be deepened through a possible parliamentary committee for this purpose, does not exempt us from immediately recognizing other and multiple challenges with which we wish to find a positive resolution: the need to ensure conditions for the reduction of energy dependence and, of course, adaptation of territories to climate conditions; the priorities to the economy of the sea and the accessibility of air transport; competitiveness vis-à-vis global networks, but also through programmes for territories such as low density; demographic challenges; innovation; knowledge; scientific development and technological integration; new forms of the economy, labour and employment; agricultural and forestry development or the valorisation of public institutions. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member States and members of the Government : The Community decision-making procedure for the multiannual financial framework of the European Union is open after-2020 and provides for the launch of a legislative proposal by the European Commission which will integrate the priorities and strategic objectives of the 27 Member States. It is up to parliamentary parties, without prejudice to their convictions and responsibilities and without underestimating what distinguishes them, to try to converge, without prejudice, where this does not distort them. That will be enough to honor party representations and defend Portugal better. The PS will do so, with the eyes set in Europe more cohesive and fairer than we want, in the national interest and in the benefit of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u3	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Structural Funds have been one of the most powerful instruments for supporting business investment, innovation and knowledge, the qualification of Portuguese and social and territorial cohesion. Therefore, as soon as we reach the government, we define the acceleration of the implementation of Portugal 2020 as a priority. After two years, when we are appreciably in the middle of its implementation period, we can say that Portugal 2020 has reached the cruise speed. In 2017, among all Member States with a financial envelope of the comparable size, Portugal is primarily at the rate of implementation of the Structural Funds. Support for private investment is highlighted. We correspond to the business dynamics with the realization of an unparalleled volume of payments in the past, exceeding the ambitious goals that we have already set ourselves, having finished 2017 with more than 1300 million euros of payments to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We now face an extremely demanding challenge: the strategic definition of the country that we want to be in 2030 and how public policy can contribute to this ambition, not only taking into account the challenges facing Portugal, but also the structural challenges Europe will have to face, from the outset, that of competitiveness. Europe, which still wants to become the most competitive region in the world, needs a new impetus to overcome the challenge of competitiveness by strengthening its space in the world with more innovative businesses and ecosystems. Europe, which needs to face the demographic challenge, has to build answers that avoid the scenarios of population backwardness that are expected. Europe must continue to lead the fight against climate change and must fully take up the challenge of energy transition. We know that the response to these challenges needs to be prepared in a complex European framework that is the example of Brexit, which will, among other things, have a strong impact on European Union revenue. We know that Europe also has new priorities, and there are new policies at European level, such as security, defence or migration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given this context, we started the preparation of the strategy for the development of Portugal in the next decade, which we called « Portugal 2030 ». We started by launching proposals for strategic objectives for the country, which we discussed with social partners, with the Territorial Concertation Council and with the most representative economic and social actors, in order to obtain a wide variety of contributions and to contribute to the construction of a broadest possible national consensus. this discussion, participated and opened, resulted in a set of priorities, which we group around four thematic agendas, aimed at responding to the main constraints to the development of the country. The first thematic agenda places people at the heart of their concerns, in order to promote a society that is more inclusive and less unequal, responding to demographic challenges, but also making a strong investment in improving the qualifications of the population, thus combating primary inequalities. We must strengthen the fight against school dropout and the promotion of success, we must prepare younger generations for a labour market that requires new skills and we must also improve the qualifications of the adult population, which cannot be excluded from the process of modernising and digitizing the economy. Only with a skilled workforce can we increase innovation, particularly disruptive innovation, which is now one of the main vectors of economic development. Innovation is therefore the second thematic agenda that we propose, focused on the transformation of the economy, through digitization, and on the incorporation of knowledge into companies. This agenda is based on three dimensions: one, business innovation based on the results of research and development, but in the context of strengthening the link between the business world and the scientist, in support of entrepreneurship and internationalisation of the economy; the other, innovation in human capital, anchored in support of advanced training and specialized technical training, as well as the incorporation of knowledge into the business activity, directing the skills and competences to the new specializations of the economy; and, no less important, innovation and the qualification of institutions, promoting the simplification of the relationship of the State with citizens and businesses. Sustainability and appreciation of endogenous resources emerges as a third thematic agenda. We must value and explore the potential of the territory, whether in the use of national potential in the area of renewable energy, whether in the development of agricultural potential or in the priority of the forest, as a major resource that needs to protect and exploit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The sea, which represents a strategic resource still largely unexplored, also contains a huge potential that must be exploited, always ensuring the sustainability of the ways of exploiting this resource. We also want to promote the decarbonisation of the economy, which is necessarily due to the development of sustainable mobility and smart logistics systems coupled with the promotion of more efficient territories and cities, essential conditions for combating climate change. Finally, we have the thematic agenda for the development of the territory, which wants to be competitive, externally, and cohesive internally. This agenda determines that the competitiveness of urban networks is enhanced, that the country is externally projected from the Atlantic range and that the geographical and economic potential of the autonomous regions is exploited. But it also involves the development of low-density territories, enhancing the medium-sized cities based on the endogenous potential of these territories and diversifying the economic base, improving cross-border cooperation and linking to the Iberian market. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general lines of Portugal 2030, of this strategy that we are conceiving and which I have now presented, result, as I have already mentioned, from the hearing of a wide range of entities representing our economy, our society, the academy and the public institutions with which we have come to articulate, highlighting the authorities. It is therefore a preparatory work that we have started in good time and that brings us to this day to a first debate within this strategy in the Assembly of the Republic, with the aim of building the broadest consensus around the strategy for Portugal in the next decade. in the same sense, we must convene the best of Portuguese society to reflect on the national investment programme, which must be instrumental in achieving the important objectives that I have just stated. We will thus begin in the coming weeks the listening of political parties with parliamentary seats, in relation to the model and role that the Higher Council of Public Works should have, which we want to reconstitute and which will be a body supporting the decision of public policies, in the definition of investment programmes and in projects of great relevance. Portugal 2030 and the National Investment Programme 2030 will perhaps be the most structurally, lastingly impacted dossiers that we will be dealing with throughout this legislature. They are therefore too important for anyone to be excluded from seeking the consensus that the country demands from us. We count on everyone's commitment, from here on in the Assembly of the Republic, to the certainty that Portugal and the Portuguese will win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u5	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor to request clarification from Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u6	Mr President, Mr César, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate you and the Socialist Party on bringing this debate to Parliament. I believe that this is an opportunity, I would say, only, because there has not yet been another government able to tell Parliament and this House what it thinks about Portugal 2030, what strategy it has, what it has done and to be able to report to Parliament what it has done so far. It is an opportunity, I repeat, to know the Government's thinking on this matter. I also want to say that we all know that the Portuguese Government is, as a whole, the late one in preparing for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u7	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u8	Not only in the whole of our partners but also within the European institutions, the Portuguese Government is those who have been in this debate. It is appropriate to say that the Portuguese Government is going to the tow of events and does not lead the discussion, as it would be good for it to happen. Mr Carlos César, I think it is essential that Portugal continue to bet on cohesion policy and can, with our partners, continue to lead the group of so-called « cohesion policy friends ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u9	Now, the group, it's leading!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u10	I believe that it is essential, too, to bet on three priority axes — competitiveness, qualification and cohesion. But I would like to say to Mr César that we find it very important that this matter should be widely discussed here in Parliament too — and therefore we welcome the initiative that the Socialist Party has already put forward — and also that the involvement of the Assembly of the Republic and the political parties should be promoted, above all, by the Government, and the Socialist Party's initiative has the merit of giving the "step-off" for this discussion, a discussion for which we have been alerting and asking for some time. Mr. Carlos César, the Socialist Party knows that today it rules the country with a parliamentary majority that is anti-European... [[It's not like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u11	That's right, that's right! [[Again!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u12	It is again, because that is how the Government continues, supported by this parliamentary majority. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u13	Well-supported and well-supported! We are a coherent position!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u14	And this parliamentary majority, which supports the government, has, in its main partners, antagonistic positions, with regard to the construction of the European project and the path that we must all make to the construction of this project. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] The very simple and very clear question that I want to ask the Socialist Party and Mr César is the following: does the Socialist Party want to discuss this with those with whom it has an anti-European vision or do so, seeking a national consensus, with those who want to build a European project for the future? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u15	So long for a question like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u16	To answer, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u17	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, thank you very much for your question or, rather, a set of questions. I would like to say, of course, that this debate, which takes place at the initiative of the Socialist Party, is not the first in our country on the issues which are confined to the definition of the next multiannual framework of the European Union. In fact, the government has come throughout the country and over the past few months to hold multiple sessions, involving local authorities, economic partners and social partners,... [[All right!]] [[Where?]] [[In all regions. All of them!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u18	... seeking to consensualise the best strategic sense for negotiation and the best objectives to be enshrined in the next European framework. It is precisely for Parliament, on its own initiative and not at the request of the Government, to participate in this debate in a proactive and proposing manner, as its obligation is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u19	It was precisely in the development of this obligation that the Socialist Party took the initiative to raise the debate and to frame it in a committee where possible to make it final and report it to the government at the European negotiating level. Secondly, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that our involvement in this negotiation takes into account the high weight of cohesion policies and the common agricultural policy (CAP) in the context of the co-financing of the country's development) is about 90 % of the funds that reach our country, distributed by these two components. This means that it is up to the government, at the negotiating level, not to restrict itself to a dialogue between the beneficiary countries, but to extend that dialogue and its influential action to all the countries of the European Union ( EU ), in particular those who can and have a greater influence on the outcome of this new multiannual framework. I would also like to tell you that I do not feel that this debate should be tainted, blocked, inhibited or devalued by the fact that the different parties in this House have different positions on the issues of European construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I feel is that this debate and the Portuguese negotiating position will be enriched with whatever positions the parties here have, provided that these positions refer to the defence of the national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President, we do not delay in the discussion and preparation of the country for the strategy of Portugal 2030. We will never be as late as the previous government has delayed the definition and implementation of Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u20	Mrs. Members, the Bureau reports that they have applied for clarification from Minister 11 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they're going to be divided into three blocks. To begin the first block, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u21	Mr. President, I welcome you. Ministers and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, first of all we agree with the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party discussing the 2030 Portugal strategy — it seems to us, indeed, important — as well as all the objectives they have outlined. Now there is also a need to resolve the EU framework 2020 and the 2020 strategy. We know that there was a reprogramming to be done and we know — there are some threats! — that there is the Government's intention to withdraw money from the poorest regions to give the richest regions, and that is why we want to question and clarify matters here. In 2016, Mr. Minister said that in 2017 we would have the reprogramming done—we believe that it has not yet been delivered in Brussels or, if it has gone, it has been hidden from all of us, so it is important to have information about it. Secondly, there is a threat that the Government is preparing to withdraw money from convergence programmes to allocate national thematic programmes, namely for human capital, which means financing the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute), the Ministry of Education, at the expense of the money that is planned for competitiveness and regional operational programmes. We therefore want to clarify that, Minister. On the other hand, we also want to know whether, in fact, it is planned to withdraw money from support for competitiveness and internationalisation to give to the authorities. But there is a threat that, for me, is the most serious one and is linked to the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources). The Government has announced large investments, particularly in the Metro in Lisbon and the Cascais Line. Nothing moves us against these investments! However, we are already moving and concerned about financing these investments at the expense of the money that is destined for the regions of convergence, competitiveness and internationalisation because this is the way to combat asymmetries and only so can we have a fairer country, without having to walk all our lives kicking into the Community framework following the desire of a country with less asymmetries. We saw what happened this summer, which means that you have not acted as if you should. Therefore, Mr Minister, more than dreams, we really want realisation in practice, realization and investment. So I ask you a few questions. How is the reprogramming of Portugal 2020? What's planned? Do you really want to withdraw money from what is planned for competitiveness and internationalisation, which is essential for more companies, more investment and more exports? Do you want to withdraw money from the convergence regions and give it to the richest? You will ask me: why are these suspicions if they are not right? Oh, my God! So I ask you why in the State Budget for 2018 the Socialist Party and the extreme left voted against our proposal to prevent the transfer of money from the poorest regions to the richest? These are the questions, Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u22	To request clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mr Secretary of State, first of all, let us see if we contribute to calm and peace in the debate, ending with this Azedume that reigns at the PSD bench. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] First of all, I would like to congratulate the Portuguese Government, in the person of Minister Pedro Marques, on the success of the public policies of this government and on what has always been the expectations, always exceeded, in the payment to companies. Plan 100, which the Government presented for the first 100 days of governance, has been exceeded and has since been paid more than EUR 100 million to Portuguese companies, as has happened with Plan 450 and Plan 1000. In other words, public policies were successful and the national economy served this success of public policies well. The positive response of the national economy cannot stop. The Government must continue to feed these policies and to give shape to the anxiety of the national economy in investing, producing, creating wealth and creating jobs. in fact, we have a great plan, to end the gaps that Portugal has, territorial cohesion gaps that still fatten in our country and that often hurt some of our regions. That is why I simply ask the Government what measures it intends to implement, not only for the next Community Support Framework but also for what is left of it, because the measures it intends to take. They will always be for the benefit of our economy, as they have been for example those that have been in force. Finally, I want to say that the Socialist Party will always be available for debate. It is available for consultation with those with whom it is also available, because when we propose the establishment of a possible committee to discuss together the growth priorities and the country's priorities, we do so with a sense of responsibility and betting in the future of the country. instead, the last two committees that were presented and proposed to the Assembly of the Republic had only as a reason to discredit the national public bank, the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u24	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u25	Mr President, Minister, I begin by greeting the Socialist Party for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic and stressing the fact that in this presentation of the 2030 Programme, it has been acknowledged that the convergence process in the European Union, which existed, has reversed itself with the accession to the euro. And this is obviously not a coincidence. Therefore, it is significant that this recognition is made and is later identified as one of the conditions for convergence, only in this presentation do we not find a direct response to this embarrassment, but we are ready to hold this debate when the Government and the Socialist Party understand. The Minister has also pointed out the good history of the implementation rates of the Community funds, until it was the first to do so. However, quantity is not quality and another aspect which is also commonly recognised by economists is the poor quality of the investment for which structural funds have been channelled over the years through the various Community frameworks of the various governments. That is, the choice for concrete and non-reproductive activities that do not generate marketable goods that have led to private investments in speculative areas are at the root of the serious problems that the country is currently facing, which are debt and emigration, poverty and unemployment but which are fortunately attenuating at present. Another aspect was the channelling of training funds. The business of vocational training has flourished, but this has unfortunately not prevented them from being identified again in this framework, as constraints, the low qualification of Portuguese and the difficulty in transition to the economic model based on qualification and innovation. These considerations are intended to alert the need for great rigour in the application of the funds, great transparency and careful choice of projects to be financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u27	Another priority objective identified by the government is population sustainability. The framework lists some measures, but it seems to us that it ignores the fundamental factor, i.e. to promote the improvement of the natural balance, the fundamental thing is that there is stability in people's lives, safety at work and combating precariousness, and this is about changing labour law, which has accentuated these phenomena in recent years. Therefore, in this chapter, there is nothing to invent, it is not worth mitigating with ancillary measures, because it is in the stability of the lives of people who have to invest so that decisions to form families and have children are taken and thus reverse this scenario of the natural balance. Finally, I am referring to another aspect, which the Minister also stressed, which is the role of private investment, which emerges as a panacea associated with the myth that only companies create jobs and wealth. The CTTs are there, with all their splendor, to refute this myth, i.e. once given to the private initiative, it only destroyed jobs and value. Public investment and investment in the cooperative and social sector also create wealth, also create employment and in addition are factors of social and territorial cohesion that should not be discriminated against, but, in this case, should be positive, as is the constitutional obligation of the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u28	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure Pedro Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u29	Mr President, Mrs Fátima Ramos, I should like to begin by welcoming, very positively, her willingness to debate, which registers, but also the fact that she has started her speech by expressing a generic agreement on behalf of the PSD with the objectives outlined in the strategy we have proposed for the next decade. This is very important from a political point of view. It is politically very important that this path is going with the whole political spectrum, but certainly with the greatest party to the opposition, because that is what the Portuguese expect of us, is stability from the point of view of the major strategic objectives for the country. It is also, from my point of view — and let me say so — that is politically significant at this time, since in the practice of the governance of the last legislature, clearly the implementation of public policy, the policy options in that period of the last PSD/CDS Government, were very different from the position of the country's external competitiveness in relation to the strategy we have now presented. This is a strategy in which Portugal presents itself running towards the top, running through competitiveness, skills, valuing the position of our resources. The strategy in the previous legislature was a fund run, which, in the long term, seems to me, would not produce results, it was not sustainable and so much so that, fortunately, the country could change this situation and it could be running at the top today, running through qualifying investments and bringing some of the biggest investments in technology to Portugal. This is where we want to be, in the front league and not in the background race. Therefore, welcome to a very important consensus for the country, which is the country of the front and not the country of the background. But she wanted to remove some of her concerns regarding the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. I understand that the issue is important, it is certainly very important. No, we did not submit any reprogramming to the hiding places in Brussels, that was what was missing! I have already said in the Assembly of the Republic that the reprogramming must be presented in Brussels, but before that it will be the subject of an important debate in Portuguese society and I am certainly convinced from a political point of view also in the Assembly of the Republic. Madam Member, no, we are not making any threats or creating the ghosts you mentioned. No, these are not our priorities! Withdraw money from competitiveness or cohesion? Oh, my God! No, ma'am! What we are using, in the technical proposal that we are concluding and that we will be discussing with the Country, the margins of, I would say, insufficient or, in some cases, the wrong programming of Portugal 2020. Madam Member, we want to strengthen the instruments of support for competitiveness, we want to continue to have the means to support more private investment where it is looking for in Portugal 2020, in the innovation incentive systems. With this I also reply to Mr Luís Testa, who somehow put the challenge of telling us how we will continue, after the point at which we have come. Madam Member, let me tell you that this point was very important for the country. We came from Portugal 2020 that had supported the investment of companies with EUR 4 million to more than EUR 1300 million at the end of 2017. And let me tell you that only now, in January, and by the end of this month, we will approve more EUR 1000 million of investment in our companies,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by means of innovation incentive systems, where 50 % of the investment of new companies is intensive investment in technology and knowledge. This value of 50% multiplies by 10 to the average of the companies we currently have. Five percent of our gross value added VAB is created from intensive investment in technology and knowledge in new projects, which we will now approve of new companies, in which 50% is intensive investment in technology and knowledge. Therefore, our priority is to continue to bet on innovation. This is what we have done during the implementation of Portugal 2020. Our priority is also territorial cohesion. of the investment we are now approving, these EUR 1000 million, 30 % is approved for the low-density territories. And, as we know, employment in low-density territories, compared to the country's total, is only 20 %, and therefore we have exceeded and much, we favour and much, the approval of new and more investment in low-density territories. So it doesn't make any sense, it's not the priority of this government, on the contrary. Therefore, it makes no sense not to be so; on the contrary, it is the priority of this government. So much so that we did it in the incentive system with specific allocations for low-density territories, with these results; we did it in the so-called 'Incentive System for Entrepreneurship and Employment', the SI2E, in which more than 40% of the applications, because the appropriations so provided, are low-density territories. This is how we are working to correct the territorial imbalance, which is complex, which is difficult to overcome, but Portugal 2020 is a very important instrument for economic diversification in low-density territories, as the examples I have now mentioned demonstrate. Even with regard to the issue of decarbonisation and transport systems, for example, which is one of the most important issues for the country as well, I would like to recall that the transport systems which you referred to were provided for in the PETI ( Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure ), which was an instrument of planning and investment and infrastructure made in the time of the previous legislature, although then in the programming agreement, you have not made available financial resources for the financing of metres or the Cascais Line. This government, yes, wants to finance heavy transport systems to decarbonise the economy and improve the mobility of millions of citizens, but we will use the margins of the programming agreement that has been wrong or insufficient programming there. I have already mentioned here in Parliament the money that was programmed at the SEUR for energy efficiency. We will have an agreement with the EIB ( European Investment Bank ), which I would like to leave to you, we will have EIB funding for the area of energy efficiency in housing, to free up resources from Portugal 2020. It is possible to implement the so-called ‘smart counters’ — smart counters in our housing to improve energy efficiency — with market operators, so Portugal 2020 does not have to be affected by the implementation of this policy. Thus, we can help to decarbonise the economy in heavy transport systems, to improve the mobility of millions of citizens and to improve the energy efficiency of the economy. This is the kind of movement we want to make in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, which we are concluding from a technical point of view, but that I leave a few examples to you to remove some of the ghosts you have placed. Mr Paulino Ascentation, with regard to the care we should have with the approvals of investments, private investment or training, it is certain that maximum rigour is necessary for your approval. But the role of the structural funds in the structural transformation of our economy—which has doubled the weight of exports in GDP (gross domestic product) over the last 15 years or, for example, has allowed school failure to bring values now closer to the European average—, our population's efforts to qualify or improve the intensity, innovation, investment in Portugal, as I have recently exemplified, is absolutely undeniable. We need to be strict, but we must also recognise that much of the structural transformation that the Portuguese economy has been able to know, particularly over the last 15 years, has had to do with the role of the structural funds. That is why we want to continue to put Portugal at the top and at the front of European competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u30	We moved on to the second block of requests for clarification, starting with Mr Pedro Mota Soares, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the future multiannual financial framework is essential to ensure the development commitments of the future of Europe and is therefore so important and so structural for Portugal. Europe is a political project, but above all it is a project of social cohesion, of economic cohesion, and that is exactly why this financial framework is a tool for us to achieve that same goal. in a matter as relevant as this, the CDS always participates in the discussion with proposals, ideas, initiatives, which, in fact, we have just done today with the presentation of a draft resolution with about 15 recommendations to the Government so that we can also participate and contribute to this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u33	in this sense, we are faithful to our principle: for every criticism we make to the government we present a measure, for every disagreement we say what our alternative is. We know that this framework is negotiated at a special time, which has contingencies, because we have fewer net contributors—in the head, the UK exit will affect that same number of taxpayers—to a higher number of beneficiaries, much the result of enlargement. We know this same difficulty, but we also know that today the conditions under which this framework is being negotiated are different from the past conditions. We are talking about a framework which is being negotiated with economic growth in the European Union, which is even higher than the one in Portugal in the last two years — namely Portugal, unfortunately, in the last two years, even diverged, with a set of positive expectations and we should remember, with a very important proposal from the European Parliament, about which the Minister said nothing at this time, in order to increase the financial allocation from 1 % to 1 %, 3 % of European GDP. The CDS will participate in a discussion on the issues and areas which, for us, are more relevant from the point of view of the application of Community funds. The first of these areas relates to the achievement of the sustainable development goals with which we commit ourselves to the framework of the United Nations. These are matters related to climate change, which relate to the resilience, for example, of the water sector and to drought, which is increasingly a structural problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u34	in this sense, we will have to measure what we want to do, for example, from the point of view of water dams, given that, very recently, even in the worst drought ever, a government member said there would be no more dams. So this is something we want to reflect on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u36	Or materials that have to do with the decarbonisation of our economy and with mobility, particularly in large metropolitan areas, which affect this subject in a very direct way, along with climate change. A second theme for us is very relevant to agriculture and the sea. We do not accept that the inclusion of new designs in Community funds affects the resources allocated to both the CAP and cohesion — and I will ask you directly about this. A third area is territorial and social cohesion. Portugal must be able to use the next fund within the country to have areas which, from the point of view of not only national but European competitiveness, are set up as areas of excellence, such as the best area in Europe to launch an idea, to launch a new business. at the same time, there is also the dimension of qualification and education. We know how, in the last Community frameworks, this matter was important, even to the maintenance of a set of obligations of the Portuguese State, particularly in the field of vocational training. A fourth area is competitiveness and investment. Portugal must be an investment champion. in this sense, the use of Community funds that allow us to leverage national investment, but also, and above all, foreign direct investment, especially on an industrial basis, which is what we have missed most, is absolutely essential. A fifth area concerns the topic of demography, in the dual dimension of stimulating birth — 2017 was the worst year of this century in relation to birth — not forgetting the matter of active ageing with quality, on which we must reflect and to which we must find ways to respond, using Community funds. We know that at the moment the discussion is not yet this, it is not about the thematic areas. The debate that will now begin in the next informal council is more about the allocation of funds, the budget package, and that is exactly why, Minister, I would like to ask four questions. The first question is whether the Minister follows the CDS, when the CDS makes it very clear that Portugal should not accept that the introduction of new domains into the Community funds — matters such as migration or security and defence — is made at the cost of reducing both the funds for the CAP and for cohesion. This would remove the ability of the European Union to fulfil its cohesion plan. The second question, Minister, is whether we agree with the European Parliament's proposal to increase Community funds to 1, 3 % of European GDP — we agree. Even in this sense, the third question is whether it is available or not to study the possibility of moving the funds from five to seven years, also allowing to compensate, in some way, the money of cohesion, which, for us, is very relevant. One last question, Minister. I do not question, and we shall not vote against, the establishment of an internal committee in the Assembly of the Republic. We will have no problem with this, but it seems to us that a matter of this importance involves having a set of instruments and partners to participate in this same discussion. I therefore ask: is the Government available to set up an external committee at the Assembly, with representatives of regional governments, municipalities, social partners, the social economy, universities, a set of sectors, allowing us to build the most capable programme of Community funds by 2030? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u37	Mr President, as it is obvious, the Bureau has usually cut off the time spent in excess of the time available to the parties themselves, so it is not being orthodox in the observance of the two minutes. however, we have an agreement, which is not to exceed twice the 2 minutes. in this case, you have exceeded the triple, which I would ask is considered an exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u38	The CDS to manage is a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u39	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, without prejudice to another critical assessment at the moment in this debate, there are concrete questions on the policy options for the implementation of the Community funds which must be put now. in the formulation of the main objectives, in theory, once again, we will all agree. The issue is the strategy and planning of its implementation and, in this sense, the amendment of the wrong strategy that has been pursued in the last five Community support frameworks requires, from our point of view, two fundamental failures. First, it is necessary to pass a distribution according to the market, so let us say, for a distribution with the aim of correcting inequalities in the territory and society, which implies the definition of the volume of funds distributed in a manner that discriminates effectively, strongly and securely, the interior areas and public areas of health and education services. This implies the second failure, which is to reject this trend towards, I would say, the privatization of the policy that has been established in the application and even in the management of Community funds. It must be public management, i.e. central and local administration, to conduct the options and priorities transparently in this area and to implement the substantial part of these funds. It must be the State to define which territories and areas the funds will apply, and not the demands of the economic power. This, in turn, raises two other central questions. On the one hand, the State must have the necessary and sufficient budgetary allocations, which must not count for the deficit, either to exploit the potentialities of the Community funds as much as possible, with the multiplier effect that we are talking about, which means not saving in compulsory national counterparts, either so that public investment is not reduced to that provided by Community funds — and still yesterday, if we remember, we underlined this in the debate, in committee, on vocational education. On the other hand, private capital incentives should be directed towards micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ), removing large national and foreign capital from access to Community funds. There is no reason for the public budget to continue to support the large economic groups — in fact, for the current framework, the CFP proposed specific measures for the MPMEs, which were adopted here in the plenary about a month ago on this matter. At this time, Mr Minister, it is important that there should be as a starting point for this debate an approach that clearly answers these central issues, so that we do not have the repetition of the problems of the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u41	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, we are now going through a phase that seems decisive to us in the definition of the Portugal 2030 strategy. It is a decisive phase because at this time political priorities are defined and their funding for the years following 2020. It is therefore now time and opportunity to seek to enhance these financial resources not only to modernise our economy but also, above all, to view these resources as a way to promote social justice, particularly through mechanisms that promote the fight against social inequalities. But this is also, or also, the time to look with responsibility for the problems of our country's regional asymmetries, the desertification of the countryside and the abandonment of the rural world, and to prepare and guarantee the financial means to seek the answer that is necessary to ensure that our resources are valued, including our natural and environmental resources. When we talk about the importance of modernising our economy, we refer mainly to the future, or survival itself, of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. As you will certainly acknowledge, these companies have an absolutely decisive role for our economy, because they account for about 99% of the total number of companies in our country, they are responsible for 80% of employment capital and represent 60% of the total turnover of non-financial companies. But in spite of the importance they attach to our economy, the truth is that, in general, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness, a scenario that is even more worrying if we take into account that these companies are very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term. In fact, these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which were forgotten or punished during the previous government's term of office, remain largely dependent on bank credit, which is, in itself, unhealthy and unrecommendable. However, with limited access to international capital markets, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are thus faced with a serious problem of financing, the situation, in fact, that the banking concentration in our country has worsened substantially because, with this concentration, there have been restrictions on access to credit, especially with the reduction of business ceilings. That is, the situation that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises continue to live today does not allow them to make the desirable contribution to the resumption of business investment which, by contrast, is not reflected as a contribution to the revival of the Portuguese economy and economic growth. He was therefore interested to know what the government's strategy is and what measures it is considering to develop as a way not only to speed up and facilitate access to the financing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to promote their capitalisation. Mr Minister, even in Portugal 2030 and still in this area, it would be important for the Government to talk to us about the work being considered, with a view to ensuring that the funds will effectively reach micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is necessary to ensure that these funds actually arrive. On the other hand, Mr Minister, it was important to know what measures are envisaged to make the applications less bureaucratic and more accessible, because this is a real problem for these companies. In fact, what has happened over the years is that for micro and small businesses to be able to compete with the funds, they are obliged to use other companies to prepare their application, which means that part of the cake, in the successful cases of these applications, remains with the companies that promote the candidatures and not exactly with the companies that apply for those funds. In fact, this scenario has to be reversed and it would therefore be important for the government to tell us what to do about the complexity of these processes. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u43	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Bruno Dias and José Luís Ferreira, in the interventions made so far, there is a very positive expanded work base which I believe to be an important basis for the construction of this consensus strategy for Portugal 2030. I can review several of the concerns or various strategic priorities announced here, which, in fact, have a very strong mix of what I have said on behalf of the Government today: the issues of sustainable development, decarbonisation, agriculture, the sea, territorial cohesion, competitiveness and demographics. These are subjects that have been mentioned by me and that the government has come to prioritize and to point out as priorities over the months that this debate has already taken throughout the country. I would also like to point out that we are on the side of those who believe that European nuclear policies must be safeguarded in the future, even in the complex context where we are from the budgetary point of view. There are new priorities for European policy, of course, some of them have a complete fit in cohesion policy itself. For example, for those on the side of cohesion policy makes every sense to understand and defend that the subject of migration can be dealt with properly and in an integrated way in the context of cohesion policy. We are one of those who have been by the debate either on the limit of the financial resources and the budget of the European Union, or the debate itself — Mr Pedro Mota Soares did not mention it, but Portugal has said to be available to it — on the own resources of the European Union. Just to give you an example, a debate in which Portugal has already participated actively in the past and has been on the side of this debate was about the rate of financial transactions, but other resources can compose, can contribute to the budget of the European Union. Mr President, a small detail: the Community budget and multiannual programming is now seven years. But it's just a detail, it's not significant. I'm just leaving this note. More importantly, there was, yes, an ongoing debate that admitted to the possibility of programming periods of either five years or up to three plus three years. at this time, there seems to be a consensus that the next programming period is still seven years again and, eventually, the next programming period may be changed. Let's see how we evolved. As regards the question of the nature of the committee to be set up in this Assembly of the Republic, Parliament is sovereign, the Government must not have a position on the committee to be set up in Parliament. That's what's missing! Mr President, I do not know whether or not it is just wordplay, because, in fact, as much as I can see — and I have already been a Member — a committee, possibly or not, convenes, cooperates, talks with external entities to Parliament. So it gives me an idea that you will not be talking about anything very different from what the Socialist Party has proposed days ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u45	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u46	But this is, as I said, a debate by Parliament, the government has no need to think about it. Obviously, what the Government is doing is what it must do, that is, it is talking to society and it is available here to account, to debate and to listen to Parliament on the country's priorities and on the priorities it will defend, on behalf of the country, in the Community bodies. It is certainly so, and so it will be with this government. As regards the issues mentioned here, such as the need to correct territorial inequalities, of course, the Community budget and cohesion policy already have a strong component to combat territorial inequalities. In fact, the debate we are now discussing — a debate for which it is worth all of us being convened and in which the Portuguese Government participates — on the issue of the creation of European budgetary capacity, this budgetary capacity can serve the purpose of European stabilization, but it can also serve to create more instruments of structural competitiveness for the cohesion countries. Therefore, with this statement of the need to correct territorial inequalities between cohesion countries and countries, if we want, with higher levels of development, Portugal also stands before Europe through the new Community budget which could come to the fore. As regards issues such as the budgetary consideration of national counterparts, as you know, these are instruments that are approved — there is even a law instrument in Portugal — as instruments of the six-pack, which consider that structural reforms do not count for structural deficit. This is just to give an example here, Mr President. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, support for the investment of our companies in the framework of the Structural Funds, particularly in Portugal 2020, already has three quarters of these instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises. The investment of the system which I mentioned recently, the SI2E, the system of support for small local base investment which is strongly directed at low-density regions, is mainly aimed at the small investment of our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, this is a path that we must continue, but this is already the way in which we can implement Portugal 2020. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I conclude with a reference to the question you have raised about bureaucracy. It is an effort that is never won, it is a battle that is never won, which is continuous. But let me give you an example: last week we approved, within Portugal 2020, a symbolic but enormously significant measure, as you will see, which is the end of the stamps. in the instruments of the Community funds, for decades it was necessary to manually stamp all expenditure documents to make manual charges of the amount of expenditure in the documents. We have ended this need because all information systems allow the proper registration of this matter. Mr President, I want to tell you that in Portugal 2020 we have finished with 5 million stamps — 5 million stamps! — by undertakings and entities benefiting from Community funds. It is an enormous measure, obviously due to the size of Portugal 2020, but it is a most absurd measure to combat bureaucracy, to what has always been so and that we have always heard that « it does not happen, it cannot change ». Because it was changed with the guidance and leadership of the Secretary of State for Development and Cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u47	We moved on to the third and last block of requests for clarification, starting with Mr Joel Sá, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, the PS brings us today to the discussion of the new programming of Community financing instruments and the new monitoring of the definition of the Portugal 2030 strategy, for which we are in favour. But to talk about the future, it is essential to solve the serious problems of the present. We must not forget the delays in the exercise of mappings, including investments in social equipment, investments in scientific and technological infrastructures and in the areas of business reception. I remind you that you have been in government for two years. Four years after the start of this new Portugal 2020 fund package, only now has the process of raising and characterizing social equipment in different regions of the continent been completed. The new programming of funds also provides for funding for investments in scientific and technological infrastructures and for investments in the expansion or increase of the capacity of the existing business infrastructure to be carried out in the period 2014 - 2020. This delay has called into question the possibility of creating, improving and expanding social equipment, scientific and technological infrastructures and business hosting infrastructures, which inhibit many emerging projects. Mrs. Ministers, when will a strong dynamisation, acceleration and adoption of measures to allow tender notices to be opened for applications for investments in different regions of the continent? For when are investments in social equipment, in scientific and technological infrastructures, in business reception infrastructures? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: To talk about the new programming and strategy means first solving these problems of the current programming. Delays are giants in the current government. How can you treat the future well if you do not have the way to deal with the present? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u49	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has done here an exercise which I repeat of responsibility, which was to present a set of proposals, all of which are available for discussion, on what the next Community frameworks should be. These proposals added only two, which are those which we consider strongly embarrassing for the economic and social development of the country. Portugal is an island of energy—it is not, but it is still considered, in many respects, an island of energy—and it is also an island in terms of interconnections and railways, common 'bitola'. in terms of energy efficiency and energy efficiency, it is good to know what we can do — and we have proposals — in the next Community support framework and also in terms of rail. In addition, yesterday I asked the Minister, in relation to the liberalisation of the European rail sector in 2020 — Deutsche Bahn, SNCF ( Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Français ), i.e. the German and French railways recover — what we do in a double Iberian isolation, where we have only the REFER and a different bottle. What has the government been thinking about? What strategy? What funds will need to be channelled so that Portugal can, in this respect, benefit from what has been a very consensual and good policy, which is our energy mix? That is why we are available for discussion and we note how good this government availability is, but it is also important to know whether the government has done so in Portugal 2020. Why would I ask this? You announced EUR 800 million from SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) to the European Social Fund. You have prepared — it has already been said here in the State budget — EUR 400 million for the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto. Nothing against these investments. The question is who is in agreement with this planned reprogramming of Portugal 2020. With the authorities? Like what organisms? With whom? And why is that? Over the past few weeks, all municipalities have approved their PDOs, their major options of the plan, their budgets and, if we look at them carefully, we have found that many of them, in such territorial cohesion, have given a lot of focus on what Portugal 2020 is. That is, there is a strong expectation of a set of works to be carried out, either in terms of energy efficiency, either in the PRU ( Urban Rehabilitation Action Plan ) or in other urban requalification instruments, either in terms of mobility. Question: whether or not the municipalities are being defrauded in this legitimate expectation of making use of Community funds? Mr Minister said here, and well, "well, we respond to business expectations". We'll see if that's the case. I wonder what the situation is. This is because you launched the Business Area Valuation Program... that is, it was to us saying: « We have some embarrassment to do some work in what would be the lastmile or the lastmile economic, but we have a muscle program of 180 million euros that would be for links to industrial areas». Mr Minister, of the finding, of the search that has been made, many of them are almost zero, they have not started. Therefore, it does not seem to me that it is to respond to the expectations of the business fabric by creating a programme that is not, as I say, precisely access to financing mechanisms through the 2020 Programme, but it is the creation of infrastructures that boost investment, which give capacity to capture investment, which qualify the industrial parks of the territory to capture investments, while we are fighting territorial cohesion, because much of this programme was essentially for low-density territories, but when we go to the ground, nothing happens. I ask whether this is a priority or whether we are, only and only, in the plan of intentions, that then do not confirm or come true in concrete. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, Mr. Vice-President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u51	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, the question I leave you to know what role the authorities are reserved for in the next Community framework. The role and intervention of the authorities cannot be residual, as has so far been, in particular as regards their participation or, in this case, not participation in the management authorities. in general, the use of Community funds by the authorities has contributed to local development, providing the territory with basic infrastructures and also improving the living conditions of the populations. I therefore ask Mr Minister : in the next Community framework, as regards operational programmes, what will be the model of participation? Will you finally integrate the authorities into the management units? It is also important to consider the following for the future: it is true that much has been done, but it is also true that much is still to be done with regard to investment in infrastructure and equipment essential to the territory. Question: Will this be considered, as regards financing, in the next Community framework? I would also like to raise another question which concerns a number of areas which, rather than being financed by the State budget, are currently being financed by Community funds, such as professional schools, part of the social action of higher education, the hiring of psychologists by schools. Will this definitely end and be assured by the State budget? I also ask one last question about the current Community framework and, in particular, about investment in the urban water cycle, which is a fundamental issue. We do not understand why, in the notice of the opening of applications, individual authorities are not considered to be beneficiaries, contrary to the regulation in force and including European standards. There is nothing that prevents the authorities individually from competing, but the government has not taken this option and has prevented it from doing so, moving forward in a path of verticalization and fusion of water supply systems. We believe that this is unacceptable, as it is unacceptable that the recovery of low-income networks is not considered for deep-lost investment. These are issues that can currently be resolved by the government's political will to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u53	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister Pedro Marques, in his speech and in his reply to some of the Members. Members, he presented an idyllic view of Portugal 2020 and its implementation, ignoring, however, some essential issues that need to be resolved and that deserve our attention. Mr. Minister, Portugal 2020 was designed to change the paradigm: geared towards the results, setting goals, including supporting the approval and payment of the projects due to the contractualization of the results to which they are proposed. The focus is not therefore mere execution, but to what extent this execution contributes to ensuring the results that the country has drawn. This principle of good governance does not seem to be being applied. They are not known, Mr Minister, reports on this, lack of transparency, and are not known, on the other hand, any evaluation of approved and implemented projects. If this is the case, and if the Minister does not refute what I am assuming, then it will be said that this is, from the management point of view, a dated view of the application of funds, which can be costed — and this is materially important for the country — the failure to receive the 6 % efficiency reserve, which is unblocked only if, at the end of the year, the results are in accordance with the forecast. This is a very important issue for the implementation of these funds, but it is also essential for the future, because we have opened a new paradigm, based on a logic based on the results and how these results contribute to the pursuit of the great objectives that the country has drawn. Therefore, the questions I ask and which Mr Minister would like to answer are, on the one hand, when the Government plans to make such data public and, on the other hand, how far the overall objectives that the country has set itself can be achieved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u55	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the PS and the Government today call us to discuss the multiannual financial framework of the European Union and the Minister said in the initial intervention that he intends to convene the best of Portuguese society to reflect on this strategy. I would like to begin by expressing concern for the Government that neither the Minister of Agriculture nor the Minister of the Sea has called for discussion of this strategy. I know that these are parallel processes within the European Union, but we are discussing the multiannual financial framework and the 2020 RDP ( Rural Development Programme) is the nearly exclusive instrument for financing national agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy represents the almost unique strategy within agricultural policy and we therefore believe that it was important to mention it and hence the CFP would like to bring this issue. The Minister is not alone, there are several ministers in the government and therefore we would like to leave our position. There are still issues to be resolved in the current Community framework. No CFP proposals have been approved under the reformulation of the 2020 RFP to increase national participation, but there are proposals in the Budget for budget allocations, the implementation of the RFP, the support needed to deal with forest fires, and this need to be met and agile. in the context of financing for agriculture, I would like to leave you with concerns — which I hope will be taken into account — which relate, in particular, to the need to ensure that the support is shut down. It cannot continue to pay without the obligation to produce. Support must be used to stimulate national production.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u58	There must be modulation within the framework of support, so that they can reach those who have the most needs and do not serve to finance the larger ones. There must be specific programmes for small agriculture, and it is necessary, within the European Union, to beat us by regulating production, which has been eliminated, in particular with milk quotas, and, in the case of wine, it is now intended to eliminate what has been dramatic for national production. Support and funds must be used to improve levels of self-sustainment, including strategic production, taking into account the country's food sovereignty. We understand that these would be important issues in the current framework, and they will be - they will be - within the next funding cycles and therefore we ask whether the Government is available to continue with such measures and options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u59	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much time, but I will try to answer everyone's questions and, I hope, to the generality of the questions. Obviously, I have every opportunity to continue this debate, if any, in committee or in the format which Parliament understands. The whole government must be available with Parliament, as is with society. In reply to Mr. Joel Sá, I want to reassure you, because all the mappings that Portugal 2020 before are completed and approved by Brussels. I would also like to tell you that, with regard to this concern with delays in implementation, however, the best thing is to use the European Union indicators that place us, for the second consecutive year, as the country with the highest degree of implementation of its multiannual financial framework — in our case, Portugal 2020 — for all countries with financial packages above EUR 5000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, as far as execution delays are concerned, I think we're talking about them. for the second consecutive year, we lead the implementation at European level, but we will certainly continue. We have done a lot of work in these more than two years, Mr President! With regard to territorial investments, as you mentioned, I wanted to remind everyone that there was not a single notice for the financing of territorial investments by the authorities when we arrived at the government. Today, there are EUR 2400 million of approved territorial base investment, and this has to do with the dynamics of the authorities, but also with the work that this government and the management authorities have done for Portugal 2020 to be in the state in which it is, from the point of view of its overall implementation. And more will have to happen, but for everything, we see the growth of 50% of the investment of the authorities by the end of 2017. Mr Hélder Amaral, we will continue to be available for the debate, as I have already said, as long as it does not go to infabulations, let me say so. The honourable Member speaks of 800 million drawn from the competitiveness of the European Social Fund, when I have just said that we will strengthen the instruments of support for innovative investment, incentive systems —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u61	They're going to propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u62	...or let's propose, that's right! — we will now approve more EUR 1 billion of investment to companies, and we want to create conditions to continue to support this investment in these years of implementation of Portugal 2020. So what you say does not have any adherence to reality! As for the Business Area Valuation Programme, in addition to the investment of the business areas itself, for its training, Mr. Deputy can go to Maia or to the Family and see if the competitions are not made and if they are not launched and even awarded the works. Therefore, there is really no infabulation, which is implemented where there was previously ineligibility to the Community funds, on the option of the previous government. Mrs Paula Santos, although we are still not at this stage discussing the governance of the future Community framework, it is worth mentioning the political proposal of this Socialist Party's Government on the process of decentralization and the future role of our CCDRs (regional coordination and development committee) in the management, planning and management of funds and in the programming of regional programmes, as well as the increased role of the authorities in the election of these CCDRs and their management. That is our political proposal. If this happens, I know no better way to put the authorities at the centre of the management of our regional core operational programmes. But we will obviously have a lot of time to discuss the governance of the future Community framework. at this time, we want to discuss with the country the strategy and then we will have to discuss the instruments and governance to implement this strategy in the next decade. Mr Ramos, I myself have said — in fact, he has done well to make that reference, which I thank — that agriculture and the sea are two of the essential dimensions in our strategy of sustainable use of the country's endogenous resources. They're not sideways or they're like a Christmas tree bowl that wants to put in there. Don't! Agriculture and the sea have been at the centre of government's priorities for the future of the country since we started this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u63	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u64	I will now finish, Mr President. To give you an example of agricultural support in the context of the fires, which you mentioned, I would like to remind you that we have already paid around 20 000 farmers more than 46 million euros of concrete support for the recovery of their situation. I shall conclude, Mr President, by replying to Mr Cristovão Norte, saying that the implementation reports are published quarterly, as you know, by the Agency for Development and Cohesion, are public, and the mid-term evaluation studies are under way, within the appropriate time frame. So there is no wonder here about this matter. But the honourable Member asked me, above all, about the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u65	It is indeed necessary to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u66	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Mr President, the results are in the economic growth of 2, 5 % of the country, in the 250 000 jobs created since we arrived at the government and in the investment that I have just mentioned, of the new companies, where 50% is intensive investment in technology and knowledge. This is the best measure of the results of the implementation of Portugal 2020 and marks the priority of that government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the stage of the talks. You have the floor, first of all, Mr. Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Socialist Party today calls on the Assembly, and through it the Government to raise a first reflection on Portugal that we want by 2030. This is an indisputably relevant issue for this debate to be formally a good step forward for a process which is intended to be widely discussed and participated, within and outside the Assembly, and for which the Left Block will not miss the call.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u70	Since now, we have expressed our generic agreement with the Socialist Party's resolution that aims to create a possible committee to monitor the process of defining the Portugal 2030 strategy. Perhaps 180 days is too little time to discuss widely this strategy, the objectives and priorities for economic policy that will mark our common future, but that is something that can still be adjusted in the course of the process. In line with the initiative, I may begin by stating that it must be the multiannual financial framework that should serve the strategy for Portugal 2030 we want, not the other way around. In other words, what we want is for the country's strategy to shape the multiannual financial framework that the European Commission will propose to discuss with the Member States and on which Parliament and the country should be able to decide. And this statement has to do with the answer to the great question « what country do we want Portugal to be in 2030? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Before we answer this question, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin necessarily, and perhaps disillusioning Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, by answering the question « what do we want Europe to exist in 2030? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We know, because we are Europeanists, that we cannot ignore that the Europe that will be in 2030 will also condition the future Portugal of 2030. It must not fail to raise a question which has greatly affected the development of the country and which has to do with our external commitments and with the problem of debt which it imposes on the country and on the degrees of freedom that exist for the development of national economic policy, with a view to balanced and social development throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country which has an annual surplus of EUR 5000 million but which has to pay debt, interest and debt charges 8 billion of these surpluses and still has to be indebted to cover this difference is a country which is gripped on its future and which is unable to freely define its own sovereignty and its own development. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, we must start by discussing what policy we want Portugal to have in a process of debt restructuring and in a process that alleviates the freedom of the country to decide in accordance with and in accordance with its own interests and sovereignty. Then, yes, from the moment that this debt restructuring is achieved, we must also define which country we want in 2030. And it's no wonder that debt restructuring can happen, because that's what is done with any company and any over-indebted institution. For her to survive, there must be restructuring processes and, as such, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, it is necessary that the debt restructuring table should end and that, within the framework of the definition of this strategy, Portugal 2030, the necessary proposal policy for a sustainable restructuring of the country's long-term debt should be included. Portugal was the signatory country of the Paris Agreement to combat climate change, and this is a circumstance that strongly conditions all policies, such as environmental policy, energy policy, mobility policy, planning and requalification policy of the territory, including urban, rural and maritime territories, and also conditions a country that has to be more balanced, less unequal, with more wealth production, but much more solidarity, because more cohesion, and especially with lower rates of social poverty. And this Portugal 2030 which we want will also be part of the change in the energy and mobility paradigm, ensuring in its term the prevalence of renewable energy sources in all sectors of economic and social activity and that the paradigm of transport and mobility is not only that of electric mobility but also that of sustainable collective transport and environment friendly, both in the transport of passengers and in the transport of goods, which implies a clear and unequivocal priority of rail transport on road transport in urban and rural areas. It is worth calling for a unanimous decision to be adopted in this House of the Republic and which the Government has not yet implemented, to draw up and promote a national rail plan to enable sustainable and environmentally friendly transport to all essential points of the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u72	This 2030 Portugal which we want must also be marked by a state that is the best in that it should have the responsibility to develop and implement social policies that respect and implement constitutional rights to health, education, social security, housing, justice, culture, the environment and security. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u73	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today's theme is crucial for Portugal and it is therefore pleased that the PSD participates in this debate on the strategy Portugal 2030. Of course the PSD is and has always been available to discuss all the strategic issues for Portugal, and could not be otherwise. The initiative to set up a possible parliamentary committee on this subject deserves serious discussion, but in order to discuss this process it becomes essential to make a three-stage analysis, the first being related to the past. in the past, when the PS was in power, the PSD always participated in all processes of defining the strategy of application of funds for Portugal, and the opposite also happened. Therefore, there is no novelty about this positioning of the PSD. in the negotiation of Portugal 2020, which is a partnership agreement, the PS participated in this process. Curiously, personalities proposed by the Socialist Party and some of them are even part of the government list but pretend that they did not participate and did not follow the process. We never did that, nor will we, because that's not how the PSD works. We are not going to lie, as others do, saying, for example, that road interventions were not only envisaged in Portugal 2020 because the previous government did not want to. Everyone knows how it was, that it was a negative priority and that it was not achieved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD understands and demands a serious and very transparent discussion on this matter. With regard to the present stage of the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, it is essential to ensure that the objectives of this reprogramming are effectively met, in particular the indicators of achievement, but also all that are national strategies such as the national strategy of smart specialisation, etc. It is therefore appropriate to maintain the principles of national convergence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u75	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u76	This reprogramming is being done at the back of the Portuguese, the organizations, but also the managers of regional operational programmes, only ads — ads behind ads! With regard to the future, the PSD brings 12 proposals for this discussion. First, the European Council will discuss this issue informally on the 23rd day. So we have to move fast. Secondly, the European Parliament will adopt a resolution in March or April and the Commission will present a proposal for the next financial framework in May. We have to move fast. Third: the European Parliament has defined that the agreement for the next multiannual financial framework is reached in this Parliament so that it can start in 2021, and we agree. Fourthly, the European Union should take advantage of the good economic time we are going through and thus adopt a more ambitious multiannual financial framework. Thursday : It is essential that the Government be focused on defending this position of Portugal with ambition and ensuring more funds than those guaranteed by the previous government. In other words, we look forward to getting more funds than a government that has been in the context of great difficulties has succeeded. That's what we're going to defend and help the government defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u77	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u78	Sixth: to defend that the next financial framework is seven years long, and that should be a priority. Seventh: the common agricultural policy must defend the maintenance of the pillar relating to direct aid to farmers 100 % in depth, i.e. without national co-financing, avoiding a burden on the State budget, and must defend the continuation of the second pillar, which corresponds to regional development. Eighth : Portugal must be strongly committed to promoting economic growth, innovation, employment, knowledge and territorial and social strengthening, combating climate change and ensuring security. We believe that the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ), the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund must continue, contrary to others, to be the cohesion funds. Nine: it is essential to promote more flexibility for Member States, ensuring more balanced financial envelopes and commitments. Ten : we should support strengthening the Community Framework Programme for Research & Innovation, Horizon 2020, but we should also support Erasmus +. Tenth: we must strengthen the budget of the European Union, which must be on the table to respond to new needs in order to maintain traditional measures but also to ensure a new ambition. Tenth second and final proposal: financial instruments cannot replace cohesion policy, but we must have the capacity to use it in a complementary and balanced way. The next financial framework is a major challenge for the European Union and Portugal. Therefore, we are convergent about the prospect of defending national interest and are on the front line of support for integrative projects for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u79	Mr António Costa Silva, the Bureau has registered Mr Ascenso Simões to request clarifications. Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr António Costa Silva, hoped that in this important debate today, as you will recognize, he would bring us a future PSD speech and not a speech from the past PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u82	In fact, it seems to me until you have yet to understand that new winds can be coming to your party, which are the winds of a new consensus to achieve new goals for the country as well. Mr President, Prof. Adriano Moreira always calls us to a strategic vision of the country, eliminating what has come to be a lot of the ideological heritage of the PSD and CDS, which is the « market theology », and which has also been affirmed within the European Union. The proposal that the Government will present to us — I think they have already made — goes beyond the time limit of seven years, having a reading from 2020 to 2030 and which aims to find this strategic sense for the country and, for that, we also need to fulfil our role in Parliament. How can we fulfill our role in Parliament? First, by accompanying all Portuguese and European institutions in order to have the greatest possible consensus. And for this reason this consensus cannot remain between the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS ; this consensus must also be extended to the new political reality that emerged from the last legislative elections. We may have differences with regard to European policy, but we have many convergences in the statement on a road to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not have differences in Parliament as regards cohesion policies; we do have differences in size, speed, investment to be made. We do not have differences in Parliament as regards qualification policy; we can find the best way to allocate resources. We have no difference as to the policy of participation of local government officials, indirect administration, of the various institutions that form public policies within these Community programmes we have, or we may have, some differences as to the form of such participation. Therefore, Mr António Costa e Silva, with the friendship you know that I have for you, I would like to demand special attention from the PSD and its new leadership to this new process so that we can have, in the coming years, a real strategic planning instrument that will be placed for the first time at the service of Portugal in a perspective that goes beyond that seven-year time period, which is the normal period of Community frameworks. That is why I can only congratulate the Government on going beyond this ambition to draw up a framework, to make a programme, to have a vision that goes beyond the mere temporary framework of a Community support framework. I know, Mr António Costa Silva, for his past experience, for his participation in the management of the planning instruments, that he can help us to meet this challenge and with his participation, his goodwill and his party statement, also in the national congress that he will have, to participate in this national effort, which is the effort that the Portuguese demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u83	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u84	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Ascenso Simões for the question he raised. But I don't understand what you didn't understand, because the PSD presented 12 proposals for 2030, for the discussion that's on the table. Interestingly, many of these proposals are also defended by members of the Socialist Party who are in the European Parliament, who also agree with them, who also defend them. It is curious, Mr President, that they have the same vision and strategy, I just don't understand why the Portuguese Parliament is running, perhaps, to a certain ideology that is here in this Chamber. Maybe they should be careful about the speech they say. Mr President, the PSD is available for this discussion, for a future discussion. I hope that the honourable Member will not be arrested, and do not look like that element of the past which reminds me of the 'coordinated scribe', in this case in the kingdom of Lusitania. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u85	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The time before the negotiations of the multiannual financial frameworks is always a time of great tension at European level. In each past period we have always heard: the funds would be reduced or, for example, after the large enlargement in 2004 for the 2007 / 2013 framework, the new countries would have to reduce the financial envelope of the cohesion countries. The fact is that, finally, a satisfactory financial envelope has been achieved, the problem being its allocation to the priorities of governments that are in the middle of the implementation of the frameworks. We all know the strategy, or lack of it, in the negotiation of the previous government with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u88	There was a rush: be the first. National interests have not been taken care of. This government had the lucidity not to renegotiate the picture. We would have gained political coherence, but we would have delayed implementation. Adjustments were made. We can see today — the numbers speak for themselves — that, with concrete policies and clear economic and social objectives, traditional beneficiaries, including authorities and businesses, have been able and are benefiting from the structural funds aimed at promoting competitiveness and job creation. With a lot of imagination, negotiation and efficiency in management. It seems that, despite Portugal being well placed in the ranking of implementation at European level, we are still far from the best. The European Commission started the debate on the financial outlook for 2020 with the White Paper on the future of Europe, already last year. It will now present its proposal for a multiannual financial framework after-2020 at the end of May. There are fundamental principles that we have to defend from the outset. I'll introduce just three here because time doesn't allow me any more. First of all, the debate must be on the side of revenue and expenditure. We cannot speak of new policies, which, in fact, are not new and much less new in 2021, such as the migration or refugee policy. We cannot talk about new policies without talking about increasing funding. Secondly, we will have to defend cohesion policy, a new generation of cohesion policies, cohesion for competitiveness. A cohesion policy that values the competitive development of territories, which promotes competitiveness, economic growth, job creation and convergence. Third principle: putting the budget of the European Union more at the service of Member States'budgetary commitments within the framework of the euro, i.e. a greater link with the European Semester. One thing is certain: Portugal will have to be an active player in this debate in the European institutions and not a mere receiver/follower of the general principles that will be agreed upon in the European framework. It is not enough to negotiate the financial envelope. It is important, indeed, but it is essential that Portugal contribute to the general lines that are being adopted so that they can serve our programme and our political priorities. It is therefore essential that this Parliament accompany the successive stages of this negotiation exercise from the beginning of the process. from there our proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u89	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning: I note the answers given to me about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, the Government's efforts to simplify the application procedures. However, I would like to launch for debate two more important matters, which I have also announced on the request for clarifications which have just been sent to you. I know that the Government does not have time at this stage of the debate, but in the intervention of closure, and with good will, there will certainly be room for two words on these two important matters. The first is whether, as a whole, under Portugal 2030, the Government considers the need to enhance energy efficiency, in particular the energy efficiency of companies in the context of 2030. It is a matter which the Greens would like to stress, not only because of the importance that this matter represents from an economic point of view but above all because of the importance it assumes from an environmental point of view and its potential contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and in combating climate change which are undoubtedly associated with it, and to which, in fact, the Minister referred in his initial speech. Therefore, because of the relevance of this matter, the Greens believe it would be important for the Government to be able to tell us something about its intentions regarding increasing the energy efficiency of companies in the context of Portugal 2030. Secondly, and because we are talking about the future, we would have every opportunity to see what the government's commitment is to combat regional asymmetries in the context of Portugal 2030, in the fight against desertification of the interior and the abandonment of the rural world. This is an absolutely central area which cannot continue to be postponed or ignored and which requires clear and objective answers and which, in our view, must be addressed with full responsibility in the context of Portugal 2030, so that this matter, which is vital for the development of our country, is not postponed again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u91	Mrs Maria Adelaide Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Everyone recognises the determining role that the structural funds have played for Madeira and the Azores, which, as you know, present permanent constraints due to the distancement, geographical dispersion, the small size and fragility of our economies, recognised in fact by the status of the outermost region. in the new communication on the outermost regions, recently approved, a new approach is proposed to better respond to the specific needs of each of the outermost regions. Despite the positive aspects of this communication, there is something that concerns us and that is related to the absence of clear references and differentiation in cohesion policy for the outermost regions, and the reference to the ERDF (European Regional Development Fund ) and the European Social Fund, which, as we know, are fundamental funds for modernising and diversifying the economic activities of our archipelagos. This is why the preparation of post-2020 has vital importance for the autonomous regions. in this context, the question I put to you, Minister, is what work has been done by the government to ensure that the instruments that benefit these regions are preserved and how autonomous regions will be involved in the preparation and discussion of the new strategy for the post-2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u93	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: There is an indisputable issue in this debate, which is the position of the Portuguese State vis-à-vis the supposed inevitability of the European Union and its political options. What has happened is the deepening of federalism, militaristic escalation, with the restrictions on the Community budget that they want us to impose, the growing centralisation of the powers and decision-making processes in Brussels — see the CEF (Connecting Europe Facility), the Juncker plan, etc. — but also the privatization of these processes, which we referred to recently, gave themselves to multinational consultants with all that this could entail conflicts of interest. We have seen the complexity of an endless bureaucracy, which can now not soil the ink hands but which binds the entities electronically. While not forgetting that the very political framework of partnership agreements — which then determines the boundaries of the multi-annual framework — is a truly unacceptable colonial subjugation, as has already occurred in the present framework, with the infamous macroeconomic conditionality to take further interference and the imposition of constraints. In the meantime, such a cohesion Europe, so propagandised for this process of capitalist integration, is already set aside outside the discourse of the great powers. The truth, and that the government does not ignore, is that Portugal's convergence with the European Union ended in 2000 with the introduction of the euro! When the mask falls, you gain clarity and you realize who it is. But there can be no taboos and inevitability in defending the national interest, our development and our sovereignty in the face of these strategies of domination that are being increasingly evident in the European Union. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u95	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This intervention by the CFP gives us a good view of how it works and the cohesion that has the management that governs us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u97	Thank you for your contribution to this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u98	in the very short time I have, I just wanted to leave two ideas. The first idea is to say how the PSD is in relation to this debate. Yes, we will be in this debate of Portugal 2030! Yes, we will be responsible, as we have always been, in power and opposition! We have power and we have the right and the duty to intervene, and we will be in this debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u99	Only now do you understand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u100	We will be in this debate knowing that we are opposition, responsible opposition and, above all, alternative opposition. We will also have our proposals, because we have to be ready for when you fail — you will fail and you are failing! But more than that, the trailer on this subject brought us Portugal 2020. And here was a scenario that, curiously, or worryingly, the only party that supported the government's thesis was the Socialist Party. This should be considered by the Minister. It is, in fact, that the picture he has drawn for us is only accompanied by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u101	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u102	Interestingly, the third sector is still awaiting the major interventions of this Community framework in this structural area. Minister, we don't think it's serious, we don't think it's loyal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u104	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, it does not seem intellectually serious to us to say that in 2018 the Community framework is at cruise speed when it ends in 2020. Of course you have to be at cruise speed. Comparing 2018 with 2015, when we were closing the previous picture, it does not seem to us a serious way of doing this debate and we are concerned about the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u105	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate for which the Socialist Party called the plenary this afternoon, around the post-2020, is a debate on the future of the country we want and, above all, on the strategies we want to build it. The main objectives for the coming years are for a decade of convergence with the European Union, after many years of divergence, and this implies the redefining of the national strategy as well as the reintroduction of the Union with the fundamental values of cohesion, prosperity and development because, contrary to what we have already heard this afternoon, that is true Europeanism, it is not a vain word that serves both to promote cohesion policy and to promote an anti-social policy. In order to achieve these designs, it will be necessary for us to understand the State as a strategy for public policies, but for that, we also need to understand what we refer to in these public policies, in order to know what the false unanimity we reject. Portugal is today a European example, for its capacity to break with a social shock policy, which understood competitiveness as a mere option of internal devaluement of wages and labour rights, transforming Portugal into a country that competed internationally for paying badly to the few who had jobs. That is not our choice, and that is not how we stand for a competitive economy, nor how we stand for robust companies. After years of divergence, we now have a window of opportunity to ensure, through the quality and quantity of employment, that companies and the public sector have the skills necessary for the development and social and economic transformation of the country. But we must also ensure that these workers are well paid and have a horizon of predictability and stability in our social contract. It is around this view of competitiveness that we will guide the public policies of the coming years and it is around it that we want to assure the country the consensus that the Portuguese require, without having to choose between the present or the future, because we are all needed and we will all respond. Fortunately, at the end of this debate, this is certainly a guarantee that we have obtained from the Government today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u107	I also have time to speak for an intervention, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u108	Mr. President and Mr. Members, three traces of a portrait: in 2016, of the population aged between 25 and 64 years, had completed secondary education 43 % of men and 50 % of women. in the same year, among those who successfully completed secondary education, it is among the graduates in professional courses that is the highest percentage of those who did not continue studies in higher education. at the same time, all data indicate that there is still a clear association between belonging to a socially more disadvantaged class and having more school failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u109	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u110	in the decades of democracy, public school did much for the country and for improving the quality of life of people, but there is still a great way to do it. A decent society, with more consolidated rights, needs a stronger and more capable economy to create qualified value and employment, capable of adding to the sustainable development of all territories. The qualification of people, the qualification of institutions, the qualification of territories must be at the heart of Portugal 2030, in particular focusing our energies on a national strategy of competences, including digital and citizen competences, improving equity in education, promoting and dignitying scientific employment, in association with major societal, scientific and technological challenges, raising our institutions to new standards of excellence, in particular by developing interface institutions between knowledge and the business world for innovation, and solidarity and social innovation. This is a big debate that deserves our mobilization. We must all be able to equip the country with the best national strategy, which is victorious within the framework of the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u111	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we must be able to equip the country with the best national strategy, which is victorious within the framework of the European Union, where we again have a voice. The contribution of each political force to this debate does not depend on the temperature of the thermometer of European enthusiasm, depends on the quality and capacity of each political force to make concrete proposals and to know how to walk together. It is for this challenge that we are here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the closing period of the debate of the appeal to the Government No 16 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Thus, for the closing intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We all know the importance of Community funds for the national economy and the opportunity they represent for strengthening competitiveness, cohesion and convergence. The strategy Portugal post-2020 has been built and conducted by the Government on the basis of a comprehensive and participated public consultation, extended throughout the national territory, involving local, regional and national entities. Debating the post-2020 means discussing the country's future. It is a debate that cannot be sacrificed by any courier for the photograph of the first country to sign the partnership agreement with the European Union, as did the previous Government, which called into question the structured, agile and effective construction of Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a debate that deserves deep, realistic and open reflection. It is a debate that cannot incur strategic prejudices, as did the previous PSD/CDS Government, which diabolicized road investment in negotiations with Brussels, excluding it from the participation of Portugal 2020. It is a debate that must be built in the broadest social and political consensus, it is a mobilization debate, which convenes political, economic and social actors, public administration, social partners and civil society. The 20 / 30 decade will have to be a decade of convergence with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 30 years of Portuguese participation in the European Union are divided into three distinct periods: strong convergence between 1986 and the year 2000 ; stagnation and divergence between 2000 and 2015, proven by an average annual growth rate of GDP only higher than Italian and Greek; and a new moment of convergence centered in 2017, with the national economy growing above the euro area average and above the European Union average. The last two years show results of strategic governance, which has led to changes in the specialization profile of our economy and to the overall improvement of labour market indicators. It is the product of the national reform plan that has been implemented in a medium-term perspective and that has successfully responded to the main challenges facing the country. The improvement of the economic and social condition is therefore a strong starting point for the definition of Portugal's political priorities and strategic objectives after-2020. A work is needed to identify the set of weaknesses that limit the use of our resources and potentials. Portuguese GDP continues to depend heavily on the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, which account for more than 60% of national GDP. It is therefore imperative to accelerate internal convergence between regions. The wrong economic model adopted by the previous Government led the country to a prolonged recession and widespread impoverishment. Despite the economic recovery of the last two years, there are internal factors that still condition a more consistent convergence process and which must be seen as inevitable challenges: the rise in the level of qualification of Portuguese; the reduction of young unemployment and long-term unemployment; the consolidation of the financial system; and the deepening of the economic model based on quality and innovation. On the other hand, the European context in which the debate takes place is dominated by Brexit, the emergence of new policies to be financed by the Community budget, such as defence, internal security and migration, and the reduction in the weight of cohesion policy in discussions on the future of the European Union. The way out of the United Kingdom, as a net contributor, of the Community budget leads to an annual breakdown of EUR 10 billion. In addition, net taxpayers defend a Community budget which does not exceed 1 % of gross national income, which may represent an annual breakdown of more than EUR 20 billion. We know that the role of cohesion policy in the process of convergence in the European regions is far from being completed. The macroeconomic imbalances generated by the economic and financial crisis have created additional difficulties in the convergence process. For this reason, it is imperative to maintain the structural character of cohesion policy as a medium-term policy inducing the competitive development of the territories. The Portugal post-2020 strategy should be geared towards competitiveness, convergence, employment and cohesion issues. It should ensure the development of a scientific and technological basis for a strategy based on innovation; ensure the availability of human resources with the skills necessary for the development process; stop population ageing and ensure population sustainability; reduce energy dependence; strengthen the economic role and potential of the economy of the sea; promote the external competitiveness of cities, territories and the interior. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time for the Assembly of the Republic to take an active part in the discussion on the country's priorities for the post-2020, and it constitutes a privileged space for the promotion of political commitments and consensus. It is for this call that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group takes the lead, conciliating its determination to defend national interest with its historic vocation to defend European construction. It is time to focus on the essentials of knowing what we want to do about our country and in each of our regions between 2020 and 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u115	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Augusto Santos Silva, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Government, I would like to welcome this request and this debate, which is a very timely debate. It is appropriate for the time in which it takes place — within the process of internal and European preparation of the new financial perspectives and the post-2020 programme — and it is appropriate, above all, because it guides the discussion for the future. The next Community framework is a key instrument for preparing the decade from 2020 to 2030, which must be a decade of convergence, continuation and deepening of our convergence. For the Government, the next Community framework needs to be clear on its objectives and on its fundamental agendas. As the Minister of Planning here said, on behalf of the Government, we focus our agendas, our priorities, on four key issues: the people's agenda, the innovation agenda, the agenda for the sustainability of our endogenous resources and the agenda for the development of our territory. in these agendas, of course, is the strengthening of energy efficiency, especially in the economy, and also the full use of the territory and the fight against desertification. And so I answered the questions put by Mr José Luís Ferreira. I note with great pleasure on behalf of the Government that no critical reservation has been made in this debate to organize these agendas. That is why this debate, in itself, in addition to being timely, is a convergence debate and it is very important that there is this convergence between us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the best guarantee we can give for the preparation of the future is what we are now doing in fulfilling this Community framework of Portugal 2020. As has been widely demonstrated here, and has not been repeated today, we are having a better implementation than we were two or three years ago in Portugal 2020. In such a way that Portugal, in the context of comparable countries, presents in the European Union the best rate of implementation. Knowing how to implement the funds we have today is the best guarantee that we will be able to make good use of the funds we will have. But it is also very important the second guarantee, which is a participation, timely and as broad as possible, of all relevant actors in the preparation and future implementation of the Portugal 2030 programme. This is what we have done, on the Government's side, talking to universities, talking to the authorities, talking to the coordination committees and the inter-municipal communities, talking to the social partners, obviously talking to Parliament and working with the autonomous regions. I therefore endorse Mrs Adelaide Ribeiro's comment because we need all these social and political actors to ensure that the programme we are presenting in Brussels is as appropriate and that our ability to do so is as much as possible. It is also this convergence between actors that is necessary and the very timely proposal of a possible parliamentary committee to follow up will reinforce this convergence, because not only will the government work better with Parliament and under parliamentary scrutiny but also Parliament constitutes, as is its nature, on a political platform, in contact with all civil society and with all the bodies of the State. Thirdly, it is very important to have a clear notion of what our objectives are, particularly in the negotiation of the next Community framework, as Mrs Margarida Marques has pointed out, that our principles must be clear and that the objectives, priorities, which are ours must be clear. Yes, we Europeans need more own resources in the financial perspective, resulting from the rise of national contributions, calculated in relation to their gross national incomes, be they the own resources of the European Union and within it the euro area, resulting in, inter alia, forms of taxation which, at the same time, contribute to the regulation of the financial world and the development of the green economy. Fourthly, we need to affirm the centrality of cohesion policies and common agricultural policy. Many of the so-called 'new challenges' or 'new European policies' are now already faced within the framework of cohesion policy and can and should be better tackled within this policy, but for this to be possible, a third essential objective, it is necessary to modernise cohesion policy itself. Therefore, the attitudes that suggest that we remain only in the current status quo of cohesion policy are wrong and we do not understand that cohesion and competitiveness can, and should, articulate. We need to make better use of competitive centralised management programs, from the very beginning in science and technology, and we need to make better use of the financial instruments available. Therefore, with the contribution of all, we will be actively involved in European negotiations, knowing what is essential for this negotiation to succeed: what we want, what our objectives are and what our priorities are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u117	We have thus reached the end of the appeal to Government No 16/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). I ask Mr Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u118	Mr. President and Mr. the following legislative initiatives were admitted: Bill No. 742 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Restores the possibility of monthly globalisation in the introductions into the consumption of products of the small distillery regime ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 1264 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends suspension of eviction actions in the function houses of the Republican National Guard in Alcântara, Lisbon ( BE ), 1266 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the termination of the universal postal service contract by notifying CTT — Correios de Portugal, SA, of serious non-compliance ( BE) and 1267 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Geostrategic position of the Azores ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; and motions for resolutions Nos 64 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on an Amendment to Article 56. the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal, on 6 October 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission, 65 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain by which the closing line of the Min and Guadiana rivers are established and the international portions of both rivers are delimited, signed in Vila Real, on 20 May 2017, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 66 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, signed in Munich on 18 February 2017, which also falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-25.u119	I should now like to announce that the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and the next item will be on the agenda. First, joint consideration will be given to draft resolutions Nos 1111/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a special support programme for Portuguese to be set up in Portugal as a result of serious political, economic and humanitarian crises in countries where they reside ( PSD ), 1256 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an extraordinary programme of support for Portuguese and Luso-descendants which, under social, economic and political circumstances abroad, return to the national territory ( CDS-PP ) and 1252 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the means of support for Portuguese citizens returning to the country ( CFP ). Second, together, Bill No. 736 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Strengthens the legal-penal protection of privacy of private life on the Internet ( PS ), in general, and draft resolution No 1260 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime, including the establishment of working groups to assess the criminal response to these phenomena and to evaluate existing legal and regulatory diplomas in the field of mental health ( CDS-PP ). Third, we have the appreciation of the projects of lein.os 566 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish equality in parenthood in the event of adoption, including the adoption by couples of the same sex, and the use of LDCs techniques and extend the sole parental leave period of the father ( tenth fifth amendment to the Labour Code and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91/2009 of 9 April 2009 ( BE ), 177 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( PCP ), 738 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 introducing changes to the adoption regime and adapting the protection regime in parenthood to assisted medicinal procreation ( PAN ), 739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ), 740 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of parenthood in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex ( PS ) and 741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the exemption for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ), generally together with draft resolution No 1240 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to ensure that the accompanying pregnant women in the interlocutory displacements of the Azores have the absences to work justified in labour law ( PSD ). Fourthly, the Decree-Law No 96 / 2017 of 10 August establishing the system of private electrical installations will be jointly assessed[ Parliamentary assessment No 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ), and Decree-Law No 97 / 2017 of 10 August, establishing the arrangements for fuel gas installations in buildings [ Parliamentary assessment No 49 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Fifth, together, petition No 287 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed. a ) — They request the reopening of the basic emergency service of Our Lady of Help Hospital ( Maria de Lurdes Faria Matos et al.) and draft resolutions 958 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by reopening the basic emergency service at Espinho hospital ( PCP ), 1255 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Opening of the basic emergency service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( The Greens), 1257 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of the basic urgency of Our Lady of Aid Hospital in Espinho ( BE ) and 1262 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a permanent service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( PSD ). Finally, there will be a regiment vote. I wish everyone a good afternoon and declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
