ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. On the agenda, we have a PCP marking, on the Special Regularization Programme for Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ). To open this debate, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent decades, in the private sector and in the public, precariousness has shifted from exception to rule. It wasn't a mistake or a distraction. It was by political option of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, to pay less pay, impose more time and not apply rights. It was a political option to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. For decades many thousands of workers have ensured the daily functioning of schools, universities, the National Scientific and Technological System, health units, cleaning and maintenance of public buildings, social security services and the Service of Foreigners and Borders (SEF), national museums and monuments, territorial planning services and regional development, prison establishments, RTP (Radio and Television of Portugal), Lusa, IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional), EMEF (Company for the Maintenance of Railway Equipment), with only uncertainty and precariousness. For decades these workers have been responding to permanent needs but have no effective contract. To talk about PREVPAP is to talk about what has already been done, what is missing to do and so much that daily it has to continue to be done. I discussed it in 2018 is well revealing the delay it takes, having the last identical process that has happened for more than 20 years. But it was not because of lack of a proposal. Furthermore, several times the CFP presented this proposal, in particular during the last PSD/CDS government, and it was always rejected with the votes against the PSD and the CDS and the PS abstention. in the 2016 State Budget, I beat us by lifting all situations of precariousness. in the 2017 State Budget, I beat us for this survey to correspond to the hiring of all workers who respond to permanent needs and we put forward proposals for no worker to be excluded, regardless of their link, from having an investigation grant, a part-time employment contract, to be a fellowship or trainee. We have put forward proposals for no one to stay out of this process. during 2018, we reported problems and presented solutions. The problems were as follows: blackmail and repression of workers because they had competed with this process; delays in the functioning of the CAB(bi-partite evaluation committees) and lack of human resources to ensure speed in the process; devaluement by the protection of specific situations, protecting the absence of answers; lack of information to workers about the situation of each process; failure to comply with the deadline of 31 May in the State business sector where the procurement does not depend on competition; delays in the opening of tenders and completion of contracting procedures; exclusion of workers on issue of opinion and invitation to tender because they do not have 12. the year ended, as was the case with the SEF mediators ; negative response to workers who actually respond to permanent needs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, PREVPAP is an important tool for combating precariousness that cannot be wasted. It is not the only one, because the fight against precariousness must be a daily practice in the services and workplaces, but cannot be wasted. The hiring of all workers who respond to permanent needs is an obligation, it is not an option. The recruitment of all those who respond to permanent needs is the recognition of basic rights of workers and is also an essential condition for the quality of public services. to this day, unacceptable situations persist that require a quick solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u4	The data from the PREVPAP website, for October, indicate that of the approximately 34,000 requirements, only 14 000 appeared in favour of the contract. On 5 December, only 1166 tenders were opened for the conclusion of the procurement procedure. This is clearly beyond what would be necessary at this time of the championship. in IEFP, the Government refuses to integrate all trainers with a positive opinion. The decisions were taken on the basis of incorrect and never corrected information, the trainers were notified with a positive opinion due to an administrative error and are now being notified with a negative opinion. The IEFP has not yet guaranteed the continuation of the contracts of the trainers with a positive opinion, insisting on the use of false green receipts. in RTP, there are workers essential to the operation of public radio service, television and digital platforms, contracted through false green receipts for several years. of the 404 opinions, only 130 were positive. The legendary service, which provides viewers with international news, has always been done by workers with precarious links, who work 365 days a year. The programs that are currently on the TV screen in the morning of RTP1 could not go into the air without the work of these technicians. There is no need from time to time, they need every day, and they ensure the daily operation of RTP, RDP (Radio Portugal) and digital platforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u6	Sports journalists, who cover sports competitions, national and international, news hour by hour, work at false green receipts. in the International RDP, in a total of nine speakers, five have precarious links. The International RDP is issued by precariously between 7 o'clock in the morning and 8 o'clock in the evening, from Monday to Friday. They put the music in the air, the sounds, the interviews, the news, the direct and communicate orally with the listeners. All had a negative opinion, but the International RDP is neither circumstantial nor temporary. These workers need every day, they need to be hired and the administration of RTP cannot continue to deny this right to these workers. They are the face and voice of RTP and the administration considers them « circumstantial ». This situation is shocking and unacceptable. in Lusa, where only 48 processes would have allowed more speed in the conclusion of the contract, the situation is the same. Workers who sit side by side, performing the same functions, are so often the only ones who appear and do the news, who feed the other media bodies, but only know uncertainty and precariousness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members; this is not a technical problem or a legal problem. This is a political problem and requires a political response: either the government assumes the integration of these workers or is complicit and responsible for the worsening of precariousness and the existence of unrestricted employment! The fight against precariousness, the fight for employment with rights, is a central struggle for democracy and the CFP will not give up on this. Therefore, I greet all the women and men in this country who have fought for the recognition of their bond with the State : the workers of RTP and Lusa, EMEF, IEFP, researchers and fellows, the workers of the Mission Structure for the Extension of the Continental Platform, Polis societies, the mediators of the SEF, the specialized technicians of schools, the employees and technicians of schools and health units, among many others. There is no development of the country without the rights of workers, and the courage of those who fight and resist will conquer stability and dignity. You can these workers, the country can count on the PCP! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u7	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification, to which Mrs Rita Rato wishes to respond together. You have the floor to Mrs Sofia Araújo from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Rita Rato, we cannot forget that the first and only party that really passed from the intention for action was the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was the Socialist Party that had priority in its Government Programme to combat precariousness, which was implemented with the PREVPAP Programme, which the CFP accompanied and in which it voted in favour. We can't want the processes to work as they worked on the right, in which no one heard, nothing was analyzed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u9	Sure! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u10	... and decided, acted and treated the workers as if they were objects, moving from rooms to rooms or just going to storage, and they were forgotten. The Socialist Party is not and will never be. What I can't see is this: would the PCP prefer there was no CAB? Would you rather the unions not be heard? That the representative structures of workers were not heard? That the workers themselves, who were in precarious situations, were not heard? For the Socialist Party, people always count, they are always first. People's work is recognized and always valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u11	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato, first of all, I congratulate the CFP for bringing this issue to debate which is quite important to us. For the Left Block, the process of integrating precarious links into the Public Administration is a very important process in which we have worked hard to respond to an urgent situation, which was the existence of thousands of people with precarious links in the Public Administration. We have done so because the state must be the first to set the best examples in combating precariousness and, therefore, regularizing these situations, some over two decades old, is an important step in combating precariousness, although we know that it is not the only one. We are fighting for the creation of as fair a process as possible, responding to the various types of precarious links that have been identified: false exchanges, exchanges, green receipts, employment-inclusion contracts, term contracts, outsourcing, false outsourcing, among others. It has been, and is, a historic opportunity to correct injustices and illegalities and to bring justice to workers and to fights that have been held for several years in relation to their ties. But after passing the law in Parliament, the process in the evaluation committees is clearly marked by unsustainable delays, boycott attempts and lack of transparency in information to candidates. at this moment, Mrs. Members, there are 24 days left by the end of the year, which means that PREVPAP should be in its final phase and, however, we know that this is far from happening in many of the sectors of Public Administration. This is due to a number of factors, including the boycott of service leaders or institutions - for example, the screaming case of university principals - the lack of clarity of the government itself and the stubbornness of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, which has successively stopped authorizations to move forward with contracts, thus giving the completion of the regularisation process which, in some cases, only awaits this same signature. These situations have no justification from the point of view of the Left Block. We have already said that PREVPAP is too important for it to be challenged by the State itself, which has the responsibility for its application. We therefore believe that it is important to recover the delay, prevent these boycotts and ensure the transparency of the process. We have followed several cases that demonstrate well the existing failures and that have been identified here. In the case of RTP, which is the public radio and television, which he also spoke about in the rostrum, the trial takes almost six months to delay the deadline laid down in the law. It is said that regularisation does not have a budget or that the finances are delaying approval. In addition, outsourcing workers all had a negative opinion, which was made in package, without case-by-case analysis, demonstrating two obvious things: on the one hand, the law was not met blatantly and on the other hand there is a bad will of the administration for the regularization of these workers. I ask you, Madam Member, how does the CFP see this and other processes, which we have identified in some sectors of the Public Administration. We talked about RTP, but we can also refer to the workers of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), the IEFP, among many others. In short, I wonder what the view of the CFP on these cases is, in view of its resolution. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u13	I'm beginning to wish all of you a good day. Ladies and gentlemen. To request clarification from Mrs Rita Rato, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u14	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, last Thursday last week—she did eight days ago—the PS, the Bloc and the PCP approved in this Chamber the State Budget for 2019. The question that people ask out there, the question that precarious state workers ask, is this: Does the budget that they approved have money or does not have money to pay for the integration of precarious people? If you don't have, if money doesn't get enough to pay for precarious integrations, then why did you approve it? If they already knew that money was not enough — and obviously they knew — why this debate? Does the PCP really believe that people out there don't think or that their eyes are covered? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u16	Why, today, do the interests of love on the part of the PCP to all the precariouss if, last week, you despised them, when you approved the Budget? All precarious workers in the State know that today their overwhelming majority is being paid with money from the Community funds. As soon as integration into the tables is done, they will have to be paid with the State budget money. They also know the precarious and all public officials who, today, in the state, because of the unattended seizures, lack money for everything. There are hundreds of cars stopped in the state for lack of money for inspections or oil change, there are inspections that are not carried out because there is no fuel money. In certain services, workers have to buy paper scraps from their pocket in order to be able to print correspondence and official documents. The question is this: how does the PCP want to get the money that was missing in the Budget to pay for the integration of precariouss? As you know, there is not one, but two types of precariousness: the old ones, who came from previous governments, some with about 20 years of work for the state, and those who were put into the state already by this government, between November 2015 and May last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u17	This part you have to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u18	As the honourable Member knows, there are many young people whose poster saying 'precarious' is still 'painted fresh', who are going ahead of the old, sometimes in the same ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u19	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u20	It is that almost all the new ones can seem favorable to get into the picture and some of the old and true ones can no longer, much more remaining than waiting for dismissal. Knowing that the money does not give everyone and that the new ones, such precarious « painted of fresh», are captivating the money that should be used to pay the orders of the old and true precarious ones, I ask: what will the CFP do for the Government supporting here in the Assembly of the Republic to fulfil its obligation in relation to the real precarious ones? And now, does the CFP agree or not with the dismissal that the government has already given to the precariouss to whom it is giving negative opinions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u21	To make the last request for clarification to Mrs Rita Rato, Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Rita Rato, really, the CFP has many explanations to give.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u23	But you don't learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u24	That is the only way we can see the schedule of this debate. You promised everything to everyone — fellow students, researchers, trainers, trainees — it was a real auction of promises. But I confess that I find it strange to schedule this debate after the State budget. What do you want now if you have approved the Budget? Oh, my God! Madam Member, there are three ideas that clearly define the position of the CFP on this matter, and now not only that of the CFP, but also that of the Left Block and that of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u25	The CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u26	The three ideas are: stagnation, disillusionment for the workers and obviously a lot of frustration. I want to tell you that precariousness worries all parties. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] But, Madam Member, if the PCP doesn't like precariousness, you shouldn't want to be more precarious. So why does it support a government that, despite PREVPAP, continues to increase the number of precariouss? Oh, my God! In fact, someone who is very dear to this party, Mrs. Ana Avoula, says that, from 2017 to here, that is, since PREVPAP, the number of precariouss has increased 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u27	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u28	And what does the PCP do? Support a government! In relation to official numbers that have been published, if compared to the third quarter of 2015, when they governed the PSD and the CDS, with the government's period supported by the PCP, there are more 2327 precarious than there were with the PSD / CDS government. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u29	And what does Mrs. Deputy do? Support the PS government! It's true! The CFP made the agreements with the Socialist Party for the regularization of the precariouss and a timetable was set that was not fulfilled. The study was to be completed in October 2016, but the PS did not present it. What did the PCP do? He supported the Socialist Party! 116 000 are identified, but the CFP said that it would probably be more. Well, what happened? After all, we have just over 34 000 — 33 000 or 34 000 — requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u30	Little thing, little thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u31	Is that a PCP? Keep supporting the government! The Government of the Socialist Party has committed itself to delivering the bill by March 2017 and to having all the integrated precariouss by the end of 2018. As the honourable Member knows, none of this went well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u32	Worse it was not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u33	... because the bills appeared only at the end of the Legislative Session.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u34	The alternative was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u35	Worse it was not to have done anything, which is what you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u36	And what we realize is that the CFP has continued to support the government as if nothing happened. Now, what did those bills say? They said that if a worker wanted to be integrated, he would have to accept a cut in the salary and that if he did not accept that cut, he would have to be dismissed. What did the PCP do? He continued to support the government! More: in relation to part-time workers, they decided that they also had to integrate. And what was the rule they established? That for each of the two part-time workers a vacancy would open, which means that half of the part-time workers would have to be fired. Now, the CFP approves all this, approves all the budgets, supports the government until the end of the legislature and now appears to complain about what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u38	You're complaints, we don't complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u39	The CFP continues to support the government; then, it complains about what? Oh, my God! Therefore, Mrs Deputies, unfortunately, this debate is not going on to deceive the workers, to whom you have made promises that you have not fulfilled. We therefore want to make it clear that the CFP has not met and is not fulfilling the word given to the workers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u40	In response to these requests for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. I believe that the workers here who are attending this debate, who would like to welcome on behalf of the CFP and those who are following us through the ARTV — Canal Parliament, deserve more answers. So I won't waste much time trying to convince the PSD and CDS that precariousness is not the end of history. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] There is indeed more history beyond the precariousness and exploitation of workers. however, it seems consistent to me that parties such as the PSD and the CDS, that at all times at which you discussed the precariousness and this process voted against,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u43	...that when they were in the government they assumed precariousness as a rule,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u44	Tell that to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u45	... they are not very interested in serious discussion of the situation of these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u46	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u47	Moreover, this only explains the offensive way in which they addressed these workers when they said that people are “painted”. People are tired of being deformed, they are not “painted”, not at all! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] That's why, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I am not going to spend much Latin because we know that your position is that precariousness is the way and must continue. I therefore turn to the questions put by Mrs Isabel Pires and Mrs Sofia Araújo. Mrs Sofia Araújo, it is true that, in good time, the PS approved the PCP proposal for the lifting of all needs and for the guarantee of a contest corresponding to these needs. It is true that, as the last process happened 20 years ago, this process is complex and involved many people. However, it is not acceptable that it has passed all the time that has passed and that, particularly in the business sector of the State, in the RTP and in the Lusa, where there is no need for competitions, this has not been resolved or met. Furthermore, in Lusa there were dozens of opinions, in RTP there were hundreds, and if there was a need to strengthen resources in the CAB, this could have been a government option. Now, the government did not want to do so, it chose to protract this process. It may seem that for someone who has been in this situation for many years, a month or a month or so is little. But it is not, because every day more for these workers is a day less in the justice they deserve!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u48	There are 24 days left for the end of the deadline!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u49	Therefore, the delay in this process is unacceptable. In fact, in 1998 there was no CAB and the process was much more hasty, and we also said that there should be more expeditious solutions. In addition to the question of the speed of the process, there are workers who, in fact, respond to permanent needs, are hired through temporary workers, are hired through the outsourcing regime, have a stock-market contract, have a contract-season—but respond to permanent needs—and we believe that, if they respond to permanent needs, they have to have an effective link. How can we admit that there are workers in fundamental services, schools, health units, prison services, RTP, Lusa, IEFP, who respond to permanent needs but do not have the minimum, which is job stability? Oh, my God! That's unacceptable! from the PCP, we believe that every time we can intervene to ensure that this process is resolved as quickly as possible are decisive, but the government has swung into the air and pushed with the belly. If the government wanted to resolve this problem politically, it could solve it. RTP administration cannot continue to say that people who are in the RDP respond to circumstantial needs. If the Minister of Culture wishes, he may and should intervene to say that all workers who respond to permanent needs must be hired; just as the Minister of Higher Education can and must say that all fellows and researchers who respond to permanent needs must and can be linked; as the Minister of the Environment can say that all workers of the Polis societies, whose skills have now reverted to APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) can and should be linked.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u50	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u51	I'm done, Mr. President. contrary to what they have been saying for years, there are no more workers in the Public Administration, there are less workers, and ensuring the bond to these workers is to establish justice. This is the PCP compromise here, out there, wherever it is necessary. The compromise of the CFP is with civilization, it is with progress, because it is not possible to be today in the 21st century, when in the state the stain, the node of precariousness is this. Therefore, on the side of the PCP, we will continue to fight so that, as soon as possible, the link to all — everyone — is recognized! — workers who respond to permanent needs, without any one remaining behind them. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u52	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with a positive agenda of the Portuguese Communist Party that does not pass from a refined political-party tacticsism, a debate in which the CFP has a dual representation, finally, a scene in which no one already believes. The CFP must intimidate and accuse a weak and non-compliant government in relation to workers and at the same time must be proud of how great and wonderful it is to be part of this government solution. It is very much, but very empty of nobility and political-party dignity the role that you play in this debate today. So the failures, the delays, the confusion, the promises that have not been fulfilled will have to be made by the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, together. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u54	What about the Greens? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u55	The PSD Parliamentary Group receives daily appeals and exposures from workers with precarious links, which it feels unjust about by this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Democratic Social Party must now play an active role in monitoring the government's activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u56	What "active role"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u57	It is worth repeating that we do not follow the methodology set up in the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration, but we advocate the urgent need for this fight against precariousness. The PSD, a party which, in the history of our democracy, took on, at very difficult times, the rise of a country of the pre-banking situation created by the Socialist Party, cannot in any way assume the leviandades and the advances of this Socialist Party. We're different, the Social Democratic Party is different! We want strong companies, companies that multiply in job creation, job creation, economic climate, but we also want and demand that workers be respected. Today, the Socialist Party does not know what it wants for businesses or workers. You know only that the important thing is good disposition with the PCP, with the Left Block. With these parties, the Portuguese and the country were never in the first place. We are different, the Social Democratic Party is different,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u58	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u59	... because we want modern public services tailored to the needs of businesses and citizens, but we also want respected public officials who feel capable and motivated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u60	You've never respected the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u61	Today, the Socialist Party does not know what it wants for public services or public officials. It only knows how to empty the resources of public services, make them captivating, destroy services, making it difficult for citizens to access health, education, justice, transport, and deceive public officials with promises that will never be fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, about promises to workers who have never been or will never be fulfilled, I will say: we are 24 days from the end of 2018, when the Socialist Party should give as finished the integration of thousands and thousands of workers with precarious links in the state, and we can clearly and without any doubt that the Socialist Party, the CFP and the Left Block failed. [[PSD applause.]] They failed and lacked the truth to these workers and their families, who believed that this would be possible. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not worth playing with people's expectations, it's not worth it! We don't deal and we have to report. in this microphone, it is not the voice of a Member who wants to pass, as some here try to make it clear, because of the rights of workers, it is not, but, yes, in this microphone, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u62	I advise you to turn off the microphone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u63	... a Member of the Social Democratic Party who, before the workers, has the obligation and commitment to monitor the failure of the Government in this process of integration of precariouss into the State: trainees, fellow students, researchers, social security lovers, beneficiaries of employment-inclusion contracts, long-term contracts, providers of green receipts to work in the various bodies, trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, coordination and regional development committees, hospitals, schools, RTP, Lusa, just a few, as an example. It is 31,957 workers who have submitted a request to see their integration realized. With data this week, Monday, December 3rd, we know, for example, that in the health sector there were 8516 workers who presented a request...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u64	That's cheating!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u65	... and there are only 1083 vacancies open in competition. Therefore, an execution of 12, 7 % is referred to on the basis of the number of applicants, because we do not know the number of workers with a negative opinion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, it is necessary to assume responsibilities, it is necessary to draw conclusions. It is hard to note that they are angry with the government because of the lack of commitment to the integration of workers with precarious ties. They assume that the methodology has failed and that the commitment has not been honored. There are only 24 days left for the end of this calendar. The lack of rigour, transparency and timeliness are black spots that will never be deleted in this process. I shall finish this speech, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, repeating what I said a few days ago: there is no memory in the history of the country of a government that has promised the workers so much and has done so little for them! [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u66	And I repeat, that they should never forget and that they should be well remembered by the Portuguese: there is no memory, in the history of this country, of a government that has promised so much to the workers and that so little has done for them! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u67	The Bureau records an inscription asking for clarification, but we will first expect the honourable Member to take her place. [[Pause.]] The request for clarification lies with Mr José Rui Cruz of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that after hearing Mrs Carla Barros, I was a bit confused because I thought that the PSD in this House was also a great defender of this programme. Having said that, I think it is important to focus here on what we have today. It should be remembered that PREVPAP is an extraordinary program of regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration that resulted from a left-wing agreement. Subsequently, the Government passed a bill, which had the opportunity to come to this Parliament, was under discussion in this House and contributed by the parties so that it could be improved. For some time, left-wing parties and the Socialist Party have made contributions that have allowed this law to be subject to a lot of changes and the version has been improved. However, we have noticed over this time that the PSD has not made any contribution...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u69	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u70	...to improve this version.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u71	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u72	The PSD refused to make any contribution. however, who has now heard MP Carla Barros from the rostrum, was confused and believes that the PSD has contributed to the law that regulates the entry of precariouss in the Public Administration. But if the law has some shortcomings, it could have been improved; however, the PSD did not strictly make any contribution. When we arrived at the time of the vote, when we arrived at the time of voting, apart from the PSD and the CDS did not make any contributions, they refused to give them, they voted against. That is, PSD and CDS are against this extraordinary regulation of public administration precariouss. What the PSD and the CDS did during the four years of government was put people of the Public Administration on mobility, that is, what they did was fired. Now, from the rostrum, you come with this speech, speaking to those who are in the galleries — there may be a slight delay...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u73	Light? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u74	... or a small problem here or there—to want to be the big arrears of a small problem, capitalizing on it and hiding behind the bushes and what they could not solve for years. The Socialist Party wants to make it clear that of the approximately 32 000 requirements that have been submitted, more than 22 000 are analyzed. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u75	It's not what's on the website!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u76	If there is a slight delay, it will not come wrong to the world, as long as things are resolved. If, at the end of this process, there are less than 20 000 precariouss, it means that there are more than 20 000 people with the professional situation resolved. I ask the PSD : after all, what was your solution to regulate the public administration's deficiencies? [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u77	What did the PSD do? What contributions did he make? What alternatives did he present? For four and a half years in which it was government, what did you do? Strictly nothing! [[PSD protests.]] When we presented this programme, when we improved this bill, the government, the PSD, which you think something is not right, what did you do to improve it? Nothing! Therefore, the PSD has no legitimacy to be with this speech. The PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u78	Even looks like the PS won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u79	We won the elections, it's true, and still good. [[PSD laughter.]] It was this majority solution that made this Program of Extraordinary Precise Links of the Public Administration, which is making its way and that at the beginning of the year will be finished and with the integrated precariouss, having the PSD to stick to its inability to solve this Program. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u80	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u81	Mr Rui Cruz, thank you very much for the question you have addressed to me, with which I was very pleased, but at the same time very concerned. It is in this debate that you are referring to and claiming that you are in conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u82	Fighting with your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u83	Mr President, what was expected was for you to say that you are not in conflict and that you have an effective solution for the implementation of the extraordinary programme of precarious linkages. [[PSD applause.]] It is because you, who have responsibilities in this government, cannot take on with this slightness the problems and the quarrel with which you are dealing with this programme. Let me point out, Mr Commissioner — even because you asked — the contributions that the PSD has made over the course of this time. However, the PSD does not have to contribute to a proposal and to an initiative that is the responsibility of the Government and the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u84	We, PSD, when we want to do, we do — and well! — when we are in government. And, unlike you, we have a solution to the fight against precariousness. We have evidence of this : we do not increase the precariousness,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... nor did we create precarious jobs in ascending, as you have done, according to the official data that are presented. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Rui Cruz, over the course of this time, the PSD has been alerting. It was alerting to the fact that the Special Programme for the Regularization of Precinct Linkages is not in accordance with the technical rigor and the required transparency, it was warning that this methodology is not the right one. The evidence is that, as I said, we are 24 days from the end of the commitment schedule of this programme and you are still far from being in the middle or starting a real implementation of the integration of precarious workers into the State. Mr Rui Cruz, in a good-faith attitude, because that is what we would do if we were in the government, we were alerting ourselves to the need to make an effective diagnosis of human resources needs throughout the Public Administration, in all public services, it was necessary to look carefully and rigorously at the transfer of resources where public services could be readjusted and also to transfer resources to public services that were lacking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u85	This is surreal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u86	We said that this government had not presented a real forecast management of the human resources of the Public Administration. Mr. Deputies, the PSD helped,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u87	He helped say goodbye!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u88	... the PSD gave contributions, the PSD gave alerts. Mr President, since you have not heard the PSD alerts, I will ask you if you have been paying attention to the constant strikes you have been on the street in recent days. Can you interpret, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, the alerts of the prison guards, the nurses' alerts, the strikes of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, the firefighters, the justice officers? Sir, this voice of discontent is not the PSD, it is the voice of the people, of the workers on the street, Mr! There is no doubt at this time — workers can count on the PSD — that we will be able to guarantee an effective fight against precariousness, but it is not feeding illusions to workers. We want to combat precariousness with the notion of all actions in terms of day-to-day human resources management, involving leaders, explaining to people what needs to be done and never forgetting that the Public Administration is at the service of companies and citizens who use it daily but also have workers who have to be respected and loved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u89	The affection that PSD gives workers is touching!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u90	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the Portuguese Communist Party for having scheduled for discussion the Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precincts in Public Administration, not only because of the importance that the subject represents but also because of the opportunity for debate, since the year is coming to an end and many of the employees of the Public Administration continue without green light for fair regularization. As we all remember, the fight against precariousness has been taken as one of the priorities of this government, and well, because, from a few years to a few years ago, precariousness has taken account of the reality of work in our country, whether in the private sector or in the public sector, with the State itself setting a bad example. In fact, through the most varied formats such as term contracts, temporary employment contracts, false green receipts, scholarships or employment-insertion contracts, we have been witnessing for years an attempt to make work precarious as a rule in labour relations. This situation has also gained a new dimension with the policies and options of the PSD/CDS government, which, clearly and without any potency, imposed its purpose of replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. This is the truth, Mrs. Carla Barros. The PSD's contributions in this matter do not have to do with the fight against precariousness, they have to do with what they did, which was to multiply the precariousness. Therefore, when we talk about the PSD government and the CDS, we talk about policies that sought to generalize precariousness in all sectors of public administration, but also in companies in the state business sector. That is why there is a serious fight against this serious problem that precariousness is in our country, until the rise in precariousness increases unemployment, which means that, by combating it, we are also fighting unemployment. More: precarious workers have lower wages than others, because precarious work is always a factor of discrimination and condemns the worker to complete deprotection and a frightening uncertainty. In other words, precariousness is socially unfair, degrading and affects the country itself in its productivity and development. I am glad that PREVPAP has been set in motion, which, in fact, has included the contribution of the Greens Ecological Party. But, at this point, when the Programme should be at its final stage, it is time to try to make an assessment of its progress and, in the perspective of the Greens, the scenario is not encouraging. in fact, every day we are confronted with information and even emails from precarious workers who tell us of an worsening problem as time passes: delays in the implementation of the Programme, including delays in the opening of tenders and completion of their contracting processes; lack of transparency; incomprehensible delays in issuing opinions by the two-party evaluation committees; undue withdrawal from people from their jobs; and even resistance by leaders from various sectors as regards the enforcement of the law. And this without forgetting the many workers in the state business sector, whose integration should be completed at the end of May and who still work without their effective link. It is no wonder, therefore, that the indignation of many workers, who, in responding to the permanent needs of the services, continue today without seeing the light at the bottom of the tunnel. The Greens maintain the position they have taken since the beginning of the discussion of this programme, that is, that the State must definitely end the lie, falsehood and fraud in labour relations. The state must set an example. Be workers of the RTP, Lusa, IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, be workers of the SNS, public school, social security, SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), of the National Scientific and Technological System or of any other public service, if they respond to the permanent needs of the services they have to have an effective link. in this respect, there can be no « nor a half but». And the exercise is easy to do: the permanent needs of the services must necessarily correspond to the effective bond. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u92	For a new intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to greet the workers of RTP and Lusa who are present in the galleries to attend the debate that the CFP has scheduled on PREVPAP. [[Applause from the PCP and the MEP from BE Isabel Pires.]] There are hundreds of workers from RTP and Lusa who continue their lives in suspense, because their work situation is not resolved. This is a process that should have been completed in May and whose unacceptable delay has brought enormous damage to these workers. We are talking about journalists, speakers, animators, assistants, infographers, sound technicians, camera operators, translators, among so many other professionals who are essential for the full functioning of RTP and Lusa. in RTP, 130 workers had already looked positive for their integration into the company frameworks, but this effective integration takes time to arrive and needs to be realized, and cannot continue to be postponed by the RTP Board of Directors. however, there are still about 260 workers whose situation is not resolved. There are dozens of RTP workers who initially had a positive opinion by the Administration, who later changed this position, creating even more uncertainty and instability in the lives of these workers. There are judicial decisions that determine that some workers are integrated in this company and the Board of Directors does not comply. After PREVPAP started, RTP administration continued to hire workers to false green receipts, which is unacceptable and creates situations of great uncertainty in the lives of these workers. You cannot fight precariousness and persist in these situations, as is happening at RTP. in translation and legend, for example, there have been those who have been waiting for 30 years to see their situation regularized. They are workers who perform functions between 5 o'clock in the morning and midnight during the week and between 7 o'clock in the morning and midnight at the weekend. The contents issued by RTP adapted to deaf and blind people are assured by workers to false green receipts. If it weren't for these workers, this answer would be so important for people with disabilities. in the International RDP, five of the nine workers work at false green receipts. in RDP Africa or on Radio ZigZag are workers with false green receipts that ensure their emissions. in Lusa the need to regularize links of professionals who perform daily functions, including at weekends, as if they were part of the company's frameworks, when in fact they are subject to precarious links. They work with material assigned by the company, obey the same hierarchy as the workers who are integrated within the framework of the Lusa Agency and are under the same guidelines, but have a precarious link. They support Lusa's agenda and coverage service, they have to be available to ensure services assigned by the leaders and have to guarantee own initiative parts, but have a precarious link. All these workers, who respond to permanent needs, perform permanent functions and are needed every day — it is too obvious that these workers of RTP and Lusa are needed every day — must have an effective link. The functions are there, the job is always there, the effective link between these workers is missing so that the solution is fair. Let us not stay on the road and ensure that all these workers who have been working for many decades now guarantee the functioning of RTP and Lusa. Workers are not disposable and this is a struggle that the CFP will not abandon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u94	Mrs. Members of the Bureau do not register at this time. We expect parliamentary groups to signal their willingness to intervene. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is important to thank the Portuguese Communist Party for the scheduling of this matter. I do not remember any other subject concerning work that has been as carefully scrutinized and debated as this one. I think it's the sixth time. In short, we have had adequate parliamentary follow-up to the importance of a fundamental theme for living and working conditions. The regularization of the precarious links of public administration workers, through PREVPAP, and in order to combat precariousness, is a measure that took more than 20 years. It is therefore a cause for great satisfaction for the Socialist Party that Parliament is dealing so closely with a programme of our initiative, confirming that we are on the right track. It is good to remember that PREVPAP is part of the PS Government Programme, and it is not just for what is less right. If it is true that PREVPAP was approved only with the votes on the left, it is no less true that without the PS it would not exist PREVPAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Repeat: Without PS, there was no PREVPAP. We all know the different stages of the process, but it is worth remembering. The right, with the guilty conscience, proper to the evil that he had done and the terrible way in which he had treated the Public Administration and its workers, was placed in a situation of revenge ab initio. With snarled arguments, he said that the proposed model, PREVPAP, did not serve because what was needed, first of all, was a reform of the Public Administration, certainly defending the depth of the reform contained in the four pages of the draft by Paulo Portas, that, yes, was very important but that he did not therefore see the light of the day during the four years of the mandate on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, the model said nothing and the changes said nothing! And it is with this lack of political authority that not only are they allowed to criticize the approved programme and the results obtained in a clear attempt to mix, as they come up with insulting the precarious workers, claiming with all the letters that they, now covered, are not by law but, imagine, by couns. In fact, the right has had a very interesting position in this process. He has now discovered his creative vein, atrophied by four years of nonsense, proposing everything that not only has never done as they have never even thought to do. It is therefore worth presenting the point of the situation. They competed with 32 000 workers in the central administration — « one nestry », insists on the right, with the aim of creating confusion with the initial number of 116 000 workers, including central, local and regional administration and does not purposefully clarify that the programme was intended only for workers who, having a precarious link, fill a place that would shape a permanent need. Moreover, the criteria have been repeatedly extended to include workers, such as operational programmes and others, or for those who, not having the necessary literary qualifications, may be replaced by professional experience, and should therefore also be considered in accordance with the Law on Public Works and the amendment proposed by the PS in this State budget has been strengthened. We also point out that for the first time in a process of regularisation - in fact, the second of the democratic period and both of the initiative of socialist governments - trade union organizations were called to participate in the Bipartite Evaluation Committees (CAB ), which clearly shows the rigour that the government demands and the importance it attaches to a broadly democratic process. I refer to a few numbers: of the 32 000 applications, the CAB has already analysed 70 % of the opinions, of the more than half with a favourable opinion, having been approved 64 % of the 12 500 favourable and accounted for 808 with an unfavourable opinion, 6 %; however, 1170 invitations to tender for almost 7000 vacancies have been launched; and in the local administration more than 3600 tenders have been opened, corresponding to about 9000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any delays? They exist! Are there gaps? They exist! Are there any injustices? They exist! Are there sometimes perversions of criteria? It's true! But now, in the face of the final universe of candidates, is there anyone of good faith who assumes that this program is not essential, that this program is not fundamental to combating precariousness in public administration? Why are only the less positive aspects of a minority highlighted and not the much that has already been gained for a majority? [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is finally professional stability. I repeat: professional and family stability for a few thousand people and the possibility of having a safe view of their future. For the function of supervision here we will always be available as usual, because that is our responsibility as MEPs and Members of the Socialist Party, who are committed to improving the living and working conditions of their fellow citizens. for my part, as a representative of the Socialist Party in this debate, I have to mention the happy convergence in this Parliament of the left-wing forces that have made this process possible, and only them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u96	Madam Member, three Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u97	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u98	So, for a first request for clarification, Mr Fernando Barbosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u99	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, in the last 10 years the University of Algarve has been experiencing a drastic reduction in the number of retirements and mobility for other institutions. It is important to note that, during this period, the institution has been using highly qualified and highly skilled workers, such as science and technology manager and postdoctoral researchers, among others, who have come to ensure, years after year, through precarious and successive scholarships, the technical, scientific and teaching activity developed at the University of Algarve. In particular, 51 technical collaborators and 18 researchers from which the University of Algarve has been helping, using scholarships of various types supported or not by research projects to meet the needs of staff. The vast majority of these workers have been in office at the University of Algarve for more than six years, many more than 10 years, however, it has not yet been opened at this university any contest that will result in the conclusion of contracts under the State PreVPAP programme of regularization of precariouss. According to the Rector, the University would not have the financial capacity to assume the contract commitment, because in the budget for 2019 it would not be covered by around 750 000 € that would cost its contract. This rector gave a positive opinion to all PREVPAP requirements, but, inexplicably, he now assumes that he wants to go back with his own decision, asking for the re-evaluation of the requirements already voted and approved in CAB of higher education and science. This is an example, among many, in science and higher education. Mrs Deputy, do you consider this attack on PREVPAP acceptable? Is it acceptable for the Government to agree with this about the law? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u100	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u101	Mr President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, I have listened very carefully to you and I confess that I have very strangely missed that you did not take this opportunity to explain why the number of precariouss has increased with the Socialist Party Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u102	It is here that I have done justice to recognize that precariousness is of concern to all parties. But if the PS says they don't like precarious, then why did they create more? I also refer to official numbers that can be consulted: from the third trimester of 2015 to the third trimester of 2018, which are the latest published data, there are more 2327 final contracts. They're more precarious, Mrs. Deputy! In fact, Ana Avola says that since PREVPAP was started, it is 6 % more! So there is an increase in the number of precariouss and there is a delay in the process—it is obvious. There is also a difference between the 116 000, which were initially identified, and I am going to use a word that the honourable Member must know well, which is the word 'little', and the 'little' results which you have. The Minister of Finance has told us here in the debate on the State budget, which has identified 33,478 requests. The website contains only 31,957 ; of these the government says that there are 13,594 opinions and of these only 11,712 have been approved — these are the official numbers that appear on the site. With all the honesty, Mrs. Member, I'd like to understand. Only on October 11, 2018 did Mr. Prime Minister realize that things were not going well? Oh, my God! And they say the news : « Costa opens lightning research to failures in the integration of precariouss », « Costa demands ministers to open up the discrepancies in the programme of precariouss ». Madam Member, the deadline was eight days and the eight days have been long! So, what is the explanation for this delay? So far, we do not have a single word on this explanation. Therefore, with all honesty, the only words that explain the delay are: incompetence and stagnation. Because, of the two, either they're doing it on purpose, and then it's a scene; or it's because they can't regulate according to what they've proposed. Madam Member, the Socialist Party has to explain why it is misleading the workers. And he's been fooling them for four years! So it's time for the PS to give these explanations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u103	To make the last request for clarification to Mrs Wanda Guimarães, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u104	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, let me tell you that, 24 days after the end of the calendar to implement this programme for the integration of precariouss, we expected the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today to make an apology to the thousands and thousands of precarious workers who are not seeing their integration realized. It was an apology, Madam Member, that the Socialist Party should address all workers today. But, as you did not address, my objective and very quick question is: Mrs Wanda Guimarães, are you in a position to guarantee this Parliament and the workers who await integration that all the workers who have received the positive opinion will be integrated? Are you in a position to ensure that all workers who have received a positive opinion, in which they are recognized the precarious situation of this Socialist Party Government, are being integrated? Tell me, Your Honor! And when? Do not give me the answer that will only be integrated in the month of the next year of 2019 elections! It's just that this joke the PSD doesn't accept anymore! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u105	In reply, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u106	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me. The Socialist Party is always available for debate. In fact, it was primarily for this which should serve the Hemicycle. It is obvious that I perceive the bad conscience of the parties on the right, who now want to have a little more antenna time and come here talking about things that they have never actually done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, for example, the CDS is so concerned about precariousness, it is so concerned about Portuguese families, but— imagine! — he has never submitted a single proposal for the stability of thousands of families and young people who, having no safety at work, could not be a family. You are only interested in [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Carla Barros, obviously also in the same bag, if I am allowed the expression, the lack and the bad conscience dominate the PSD, because if anyone should apologize to the precariouss it was the PSD and the CDS for what they did in the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] [[He's not responding to anything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u107	What you guys wanted was to fire them! What you guys wanted was to fire people. That's how they acted. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But if you don't want to hear the answer, please... only we are democratic and, therefore, you don't admire me! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u108	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to create conditions so that we can hear each other. I understand the parts, which are part of the debate, but... Mr. Wanda Guimarães, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u109	Mr. President, nothing afflicts me in this respect. Let them manifest themselves because, indeed, I have already realized that they are very distressed with the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u110	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u111	What I will say to Mrs Carla Barros is a 'pure and hard' yes. Yes! Yes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I don't get into any more considerations. There are questions you will have to ask directly to the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u112	The government's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u113	In fact, you gentlemen, whenever there's a parliamentary hearing, they usually ask questions and even shake leaves with maps, maps and I don't know what...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u114	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u115	They are therefore at ease, because, within 15 days or a week, we will have the Minister with us and they will be able to ask you all the questions. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u116	The next intervention is the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question I put is: where is the government? The precariousness that currently affects so many workers in the Public Administration and the precarious work that currently affects more workers in the State than in 2015 should not serve for the political hypocrisy and the left that commands in the country to shake the water from the hood of its own failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u118	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u119	It is from the left that governs Portugal for four years, but it is unable to take responsibility or explain why today there are more precarious workers in the state than at the end of 2015 ; from the left that comes here with the sovereign of those who never take responsibility; from the left that never apologizes for the failures; and — it is also today manifest — from the left that rarely fulfills what it promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u121	Mrs. Members, a week after having approved a budget without money to integrate the gaps, the CFP marks a debate to note that it is concerned about delays in the regularisation process. This is pure hypocrisy, that of the PCP! The PSD warned that the process set up by the Government's bill was too complex and would not serve to quickly regulate people's problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u123	The left has heard of the merchant, but this debate proves that the PSD was right. [[PSD Applause]] The government then began the process of saving money with the integration of precariouss, as it wanted to force them to choose between reducing wages or redundancies. Thanks to the PSD, it has failed to do so, but the left has never tried to find the necessary financial means to pay for integration even after it has discovered that it would not be able to maintain the same sources of funding because most of the deficiencies, being paid by Community funds, will have to be paid for by the State budget as soon as they are integrated. I wonder if anyone cared about that. Of course not, sir. Members, therefore, from the outset, as also said by the PSD, the process has always been intended to be concluded close to the 2019 legislation. And why? — they will ask people outside. It is simple — we answer. To the left, everything is summed up trying to win a few more votes and, if so, the government will come after it pays the expense. We say: shame! It's a shame people are being tricked. It is shameful to lack respect for state workers in precarious situations, lack of respect for nurses, researchers, teachers, pockets, technical assistants, operational assistants and many others who believed that they would finally see their professional situation regularized, but that they do not see an end to their calvary. It is a shame this government is going to hire precarious operational assistants for schools, in part time, to earn 3, 80 € an hour and 300 € a month. It is a shame that there are far more long-term contracts in the state today than when the left ones began to govern in 2015. And there are no more than a few dozen or a few hundred, there are thousands of long-term contracts that there are more in the state today than there were in the previous government. It is a shame the left ones have approved the 2019 Budget eight days ago without money to integrate the precarious ones and come here today, make the pantomime of the concern. What concern? If the PS, the PCP or the Block were concerned about these people they would have all had time, long enough to require the government to integrate the real precariouss. It is shameful to have transformed the regularisation programme into a real employment agency for young people from left-wing partisan machines, since another name cannot be given to whom it was truly affiliated in the state, already with this government, between November 2015 and May 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u124	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u125	It is a shame they have never said how many of the supposedly precarious affiliates of this government, the young people who began to work in the state, without competition, at this time of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u126	You're not ashamed of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u127	It is a shame to see the members, so many times, in front of the real precariouss. It is a shame, then, to use PREVPAP to fire persons who have been performing permanent functions for years and years in the State, as this will surely be the fate of all those who are receiving negative opinions from the evaluation committees or government approvals. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not one or two, it is thousands of workers who have their lives stopped by the negative responses of the government and by the processes that there is no way to go. Shame, shame, shame on the left, who say one thing and do another! It is a shame, too, that of public services, where almost everything is missing today — there is a lack of toner for photocopiers, lack of money to send them to fix printers that fail. the police and the GNR lack money to order the inspection to the cars and even to pay for the oil changes or the simplest repairs. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Centeno's captives are so selfless that we have reached the point where there are public services where employees are forced to buy and carry toilet paper from home. There are strikes, and strikes, and more strikes! Disgruntling is not enough to increase, as there is no longer anyone who feels wrong at all by this government and by the parties that support it. People ask us to be serious in political action and the left has done everything contrary to the precarious workers of the state. We criticize. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u128	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Álvaro Batista, the PSD criticizes, but does not want to fight precariousness. In fact, in this debate, the PSD had a somewhat Franciscan stance, a position of « look at what I say, but not what I do».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u130	So everything was wrong and now it's okay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u131	Mr Álvaro Batista, the question that the Portuguese outside do not have to do with the approval of the State budget for 2019, has to do with the contribution of the PSD in combating precariousness. The question being asked, outside, is in the sense of knowing why the PSD, when it was in government, did not promote an extraordinary programme of regulation of precariouss either. Certainly, it would now be much easier to solve the problem! [[PSD Protests]] The question being asked out there is to know the reasons that led to the PSD and the CDS, when they were in government, to multiply precariousness, to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. That is the real question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u132	You have increased the precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u133	Mr Álvaro Batista, do you not think it would be easier to solve the problem now if the PSD and the CDS — I do not say to make a regularisation programme — had not multiplied the precariousness of the previous government? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u134	To reply, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u135	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you can't hear, you heard badly. Today, there are more precarious conditions in the state than there were when the PSD ceased to be government. That is your responsibility, it is the responsibility of the left! [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Mr President, we have explained why we thought this regularisation programme was not useful: because it does not integrate people, because it is useful to account. And the proof of this is in sight! There have already been regularization processes in the state, and they were all much faster. This process was obliged to be faster and not by pure left-wing tactics, which are using people to account for what they do without doing. Mr President, we have always been and continue to be in favour of regularizing the precarious links. We think we've got the PS, the Left Block, and the PCP going to play with people, taking care of them without doing so. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u136	I now call on Mrs Ana Mesquita to speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP begins by welcoming researchers and teachers who are attending this debate, in the galleries, of the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ( LNEC ), of the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ( IPMA ), of the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ( INSA ), of the Higher Technical Institute ( ISTI ), of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences ( FCSH ) and of other institutions. The level of precariousness in science and higher education is enormous and unacceptable, being far from being overcome. PREVPAP cannot be a bad opportunity, except that delays and angles have been more than many, which is above all unfair for workers who have been working with precarious links in the Public Administration for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u138	What about the Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u139	Until the end of October, only 9 % of the requirements of teachers and researchers in the Bipartite Assessment Committee for Science, Technology and Higher Education have been granted. It is necessary to complete the processes of general careers and it is urgent to end the blockade that has occurred at the level of special careers, because only 110 cases have been approved for regularization and notified for integration into the teaching career or research career. The truth is that there are courses, research units, services in higher education institutions, from north to south of the country, which cannot function without the workers, who, unfair and even illegally, have precarious links for years to come. For example, at the University of Algarve, although all the requirements were deliberate at the same time, only general career workers were notified. The Rectory claims that it does not know when they will open the competitions for technical careers, for example, of the Science and Technology Management Fellowships. Everyone needs to see your problem solved, let everyone be notified, let everyone be integrated! at the Technical Higher Institute, the push game continues. It was considered the regularization of some researchers, provided they are linked to the Technique, but workers with links to the Association of the Higher Technical Institute for Research and Development ( ISTI-ID ) were excluded. This is a foundation of private law, in the same circumstances, whose work has always been assigned to the IST and has always been for the benefit of this institution, but now its workers see their right to compromised integration if nothing is done. But the problems extend throughout the national scientific and technological system, particularly by state laboratories, which are essential for security, progress and development in our country. in the LNEC, more than 130 requests were submitted, there were more than 100 favorable opinions, the evaluation sheets have been completed for months, but still lack competitions and fair integration. in the IPMA, there were 126 approved requirements, but the integration and unlocking of the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of Finance is lacking. We recall, as we have already done in the State Budget, that, for example, the Norwegian ship could not even have lifted anchor and accomplished its mission without these workers, which have been permanent needs for years. in INSA, many workers received a favourable opinion for integration as superior technicians, having the competitions already opened, but there is still a need to open the competitions for the few workers who received a favourable opinion for the career of scientific research. It is also urgent to respond to all cases that are in previous hearing and that have had too much, too much resistance to acceptance of all the elements that prove that their precarious link is unfair and inadequate. There is an urgent need to solve the problems of the workers indicated to integrate inadequate careers, particularly in cases where there is a huge loss of wages. The CFP will be here, taking action to ensure that all these problems are solved and that all workers are properly integrated! [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u140	The next intervention is the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PREVPAP is a process that arises from the political context created in 2015. The expectation of combating precariousness was a radical change in the face of the drastic reduction of rights we saw in state workers during the previous government, and the Left Block has been in this process since the beginning. The role of Parliament was essential to follow PREVPAP, to give voice to the problems that have been encountered, to call responsibility for all the CABs ( Bipartite Evaluation Committees ) and all the ministerial officials for delays and boycotts. Also there the Left Block did what it was competing for: to follow, to scrutinize, to propose solutions where they were needed. This was the case when we called all the parliamentary committees director of CAB and we faced the government with the very fair struggles of the precarious RTP (Radio and Television of Portugal ), of Lusa, of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), of the IEFP ( Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, I.P. ) from the universities and, therefore, from the pockets—which we also congratulate here today—that is to say, we have called to Parliament all the struggles of the places where the law, purely and simply, was not fulfilled. This was the case when we sought to ensure that the literary qualifications of people for years in the exercise of certain functions were not the basis for their exclusion, or when they did not want to include workers under outsourcing and false outsourcing. Politically, we know that this process would never be easy. It was a battle we were proud of, because it was through political pressure that we imposed on the regularization of situations of gross injustice. We are proud of each of the problems which have already been regulated under this programme, but we must ensure that no one is left behind. We also know who was on which side. PSD and CDS have always been, and voted, against the trial. In fact, they never wanted to fight precariously before, they just made it worse. That's why no one's ever surprised that it's no different now. Still, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is abetting the intervention of these two parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u143	They put workers against workers without any shame, clap their hands in their chests to defend workers who, during their government, tried to fire and so many others who fired and to whom they cut wages and rights, and insult these workers again by saying they are customers? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a real surreal show! [[Congratulations from BE.]] If they do, they'll have a smell of insulting the workers and the workers they're here next time. You can't admit it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But people know and do not forget who is on which side: PSD and CDS have always been on the side of layoffs and cuts in wages; the Left Block is, as always, on the side of those who work in this country. Finally, we know that the PS and the Government have been convinced that this programme was necessary — although it was! — but there is a need to respond effectively and assertively to the problems that have arisen. It would be irresponsible to question all this work and to abandon the fair expectations created by workers. in this fight, the PS talked a lot about morality to escape to reality. That reality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that there are several sectors where things are failing, where the law is not being fulfilled, and to which PS does not want to respond, thereby giving the government coverage, in fact, the great absence of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u144	But doesn't the Left Block support the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u145	For this, they know that the Left Block is not available, but they also know that the Left Block is available to take the PREVPAP and respond to the workers, those who are here today and so many others who are not here and who follow us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u146	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every day, several years ago, the users of the National Health Service receive nursing care, psychology and nutrition, perform complementary tests of diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation or are attended in health centers and hospitals by professionals who have a precarious link, even though they respond to permanent needs. There is also a very significant set of hygiene care, feeding and monitoring of patients, as well as of activities as relevant as sterilization of material and hygiene of spaces, which are ensured by medical action assistants who have no link but have performed these tasks for many years. The precariousness also affects many workers from the Directorate-General for Health, Ricardo Jorge Institute and the Institute of Blood and Transplantation. This precaution is harmful, both for workers and for users, it destroys labour rights and teamwork. in the field of health, more than 10 000 requests for regularization were submitted. of these, they only deserved to appear favorable 3440, leaving out many precariouss. Furthermore, on 24 October, only 80 % of these 3440 had been approved, while the remaining 20 % had not been approved. And only 150 contests were opened for the type approvals to regularize the precarious links. It is unacceptable that it takes so long to make the approval, as it is unacceptable that only 150 contests have been opened. What is required is the approval of all opinions, the opening of all competitions and the integration of all workers, guaranteeing them a link and integrating them into their careers. Only in this way will the rights of these workers be safeguarded and the National Health Service ( SNS) will be strengthened. The CFP will continue to fight, within the framework of PREVPAP and every day, against the precariousness in the SNS and in the lives of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u148	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the CFP for the opportunity to discuss in plenary, again, one of the measures considered even, sometimes, as the measure of this majority that wants to signal the change that it has intended to bring to Portuguese society, but with the Special Regularization Programme of the Precise Links of Public Administration we are faced with a huge fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u151	It is a fraud of the size of this government and only possible because it is viable by a political hypocrisy of the same size, of the same size, by this majority. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We say fraud not only because, from the outset, this process has been characterized by delays and non-fulfilment of deadlines. What was announced in 2015 and which would have started soon in 2016 is still only beginning, at the end of 2018, and as much as is known, with no contract implemented. in the vast majority that composes this Assembly, and excluding the second party, we all agree: the calendar is late and is running very badly. We also do not only say fraud because of the huge number of people leaving out, in situations that raise doubts about the fairness of the programme. Several collaborators, of the most varied state bodies, have been outside: workers of mission units or structures, IEFP trainers, workers of RTP and Lusa, POLIS programs, schools and universities and various research institutes and laboratories. The vast majority that this House is composed of, perhaps excluding the second party, all of us agree that the programme is not covering as many as it said. Nor do we say it is a fraud just because, contrary to what the Left Block and the PCP estimated, PREVPAP aims less, much less, than those initially indicated, 116 000 State precariouss. in fact, we are talking about a third of the requirements and about 10% of the approvals, and so far zero contracts, at least as far as we know. Yes, the Portuguese know, the majority of which make up this country knows — perhaps excluding the small party, the Socialist Party — and we all agree: the programme is far from what you promised. PREVPAP is a fraud, too, because it confronts the left with its political hypocrisy, hypocrisy of those who sleep calm despite falling the possibility of opening an extraordinary contest for the integration of people with disabilities, proposed by the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u153	...and stuck on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u154	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u155	Yes, they did! The Left Block also, despite having made this proposal viable at first.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u156	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u157	It was a proposal to ensure that PREVPAP did not contribute to the under-representation and sub-proportion of persons with disabilities in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u158	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u159	It is hypocrisy, too, because the left one who wants to discuss PREVPAP is the same one who wants to ignore that the number of precariouss in the Public Administration, with this government, is increasing and not decreasing. It is hypocrisy, too, because this majority is viable by parties who say one thing and do another: they criticize the government but they support it and want to discuss PREVPAP the next day to have approved a Budget that does not have the answers for the people who say they represent here but who are basically just instrumentalizing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, fraud cannot be the main instrument of governance and political hypocrisy does not have a long life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u160	Sir, I was going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u161	Mr. President, I will finish. It is necessary to turn the page, because there is nothing more precarious than the word of this government and of this majority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u162	Mr President, the Bureau is registering an application for clarification, but this will not happen because the CDS-PP no longer has time to respond. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The implementation of PREVPAP has been an example of how these processes should be conducted, i.e. in a transparent, clean and open manner to the participation of all concerned. Now the CDS has come to talk about fraud. It is the same CDS that voted against PREVPAP ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u164	We know why, don't we? We don't participate in fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u165	... which did not present any proposal for amendment to PREVPAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u166	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u167	...zero, Mr. Deputy, zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u168	And zero times zero...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u169	It is the same CDS that was part of a government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u170	That he had less precarious than now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u171	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u172	... where he had responsibilities in the work folder, which now criticises this government solution. Ask yourself, Mr. Member, how can the CDS now come to talk about fraud without laughing or feeling ashamed... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u173	... when what you did during the four and a half years in which it was government was to increase the number of precariouss,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u174	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u175	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u176	... was increasing the number of workers with unstable links? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u177	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u178	No, sir, it's not false. It's not false, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u179	Don't you have numbers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u180	What the last government did was simply increase the number of precarious workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u181	Give me a number!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u182	... whose situation this government will now regulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u183	You don't have a number!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u184	What I ask you, honourable Member, and to conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u185	It can't be a question, that he no longer has time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u186	... how can you now come to talk about fraud when you took part in a government that won the elections telling the Portuguese that it was enough sacrifices, that it was enough austerity, that the Portuguese people couldn't afford to make more sacrifices? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u187	When we think about Socrates! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u188	How can the CDS come, now, to teach us moral lessons and talk about fraud? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u189	Two names: José and Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u190	Madam Member, a Member has been appointed to make requests for clarification. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Carla Tavares, the Socialist Party has referred to the question of PREVPAP but has not answered the questions raised by the Left Block. We would like to remember that PREVPAP is an extraordinary programme of regularization of workers who have already performed functions and not a normal process of recruiting new workers. in the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) there is a significant number of workers who have been meeting permanent needs for years and who service managers are concerned not to integrate. And why? It is that these workers, who have served precisely to work in the services for years, now do not have sufficient skills for integration. Since the functions are the same, this argument does not take. In fact, we have already adopted a resolution here that ensures that these workers are not excluded from this process because of the lack of skills for the functions they maintain and, once again, they should continue to maintain. in the SEF there is a lack of workers and these workers guarantee essential work once again for years. in this case, we wanted to ask you the following question, which is not only raised here but also in health, education and still in the authorities, and is a factor of inequality for these workers who also see their inclusion delayed: does the Socialist Party not consider it to be more than at the time of this integration and to correct this fatal error in this process? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u192	In reply, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u193	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have sought to answer all the questions that have been put quite regularly by all parties in this House of the Republic and that will continue to do so. They are very concrete, very specific issues that must be put in their own proper place and within the established rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u194	The government's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u195	And ready! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u196	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In May, at the public ceremony for the launch of the large de-absorbing undertaking of Aveiro River, the Minister of the Environment announced publicly that all workers of the Polis programmes would be integrated into the Portuguese Environment Agency. He added that he would be dealing with specific diplomas for the integration of these workers, but so far nothing has been published. In July, and by proposal submitted by the CFP, without a vote against, the effective integration of the workers of the different Polis companies into the Portuguese Environment Agency was approved. Despite all these promises and recommendations, we are at the end of the year and these workers still have no response to their work situation. There are 38 workers of Polis society, since 2000, at the service of the Expo 98 Park and, after its extinction, at the service of the different Coastal Polis societies. They have always responded to permanent needs, but always with precarious links. It should be noted from the outset that, since the various Polis companies are expected to be extinct, and with the reversal of competences to the Portuguese Environment Agency, it seems clear that these workers will necessarily have to continue to perform their duties. The process of integration of these workers with precarious links, to occupy permanent jobs in the Public Administration for almost two decades, is to establish justice and is a determining condition for the quality of public services. No less worrying is the situation of educational and technical assistants of education who have dreamed of their regularized working links under PREVPAP but who still have no information about the outcome of this hypothesis of regularization of work linkage. For the CFP, the government should respond to the scourge of work insecurity but, in the slow and complex way with which it has developed, this objective has not been successful. There are several difficulties of public school workers who have applied for PREVPAP, such as delays in assessing the applications submitted, the absence of information or any clarification to the workers, as well as delays in opening tenders and various situations of irregularities for which there is no response. For example: of the six members of the Round School who applied for PREVPAP, two have not yet received any response. of the four who had a positive response, opened a contest for three, leaving one outside the contest, without realizing what the criterion for exclusion, even with a positive response. The implementation of these workers has been delayed for years and the government has a duty to guarantee the commitment to bind these workers and to ensure permanent work and effective links. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u198	The next intervention lies with Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, whom I give the floor to.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Even at the end of this debate, there are two major conclusions that can be drawn. The first is that this debate has not been staged by the CFP. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The CFP has allocated this debate to accuse the Government of failing to fulfill the promises in which the CFP also has responsibility. Mrs. Members, failures, delays, confusion, promises not fulfilled must be made by all: government, PCP, Socialist Party and Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u201	A second conclusion we can draw is that the Government, the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party have failed! They failed because, as has already been said, we are 24 days from the end of the year and there are promises that have been made to the workers and that have not been, nor will they be, fulfilled. The Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Government failed and also lacked the truth to the Portuguese. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] They have created expectations for workers that they will regulate their situation and see how contradictory this is: the government, at the same time, continues to hire workers in precarious ties. It is the state that sets the example and, looking at a saying that has already been used today, it is appropriate to say "look at what I say, don't look at what I do"! [[PSD applause.]] This is because, indeed, this is the example given by the government: it increases precariousness in the state! Even to finish, I would like to say that this government, along with these supporting parties, has promised everything to everyone, has created expectations for all workers and see the response and discontent of these workers: strikes in all sectors! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u202	We don't have any trouble with strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u203	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of the Portuguese Communist Party which will have the intervention to close this debate, the Bureau no longer registers any Members. I therefore assume that we will move on to the closure intervention. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro wrote for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of this debate, I would like to stress the importance and relevance of the subject we are discussing this morning. We would like to reaffirm, as we have been doing throughout this legislature, that there is no good precariousness, that it is not better to be precarious than not to have work, because this is a wild vision, that is a view that divides us, that throws workers against other workers. It is the vision of the law of the strongest, which the right wanted to impose in the country, which breaks with a social contract that we have established over so many decades around the world of work. This vision, which has been imposed for several years, is a vision that we refuse, and we refuse it through various measures that we have established and implemented throughout this legislature, particularly around PREVPAP. We have come forward with various recompositioning measures, recalibrating social rights in the country, recovering incomes and we believe that the State cannot stand aside from what it requires for third parties. The State must set the example and the State, with the Government of the Socialist Party, sets the example by regulating the precarious links with PREVPAP, which is the largest programme of regularization of precarious links ever made. Finally, there was another program that was done 20 years ago, but in the time of these workers, this is certainly the greatest. We have tried with this Programme to find a convergence, and today it is reaffirmed, around the direction we should follow in order to regulate these precarious links. This is a very complex process that all Portuguese, and the workers themselves, understand. It is a process that has a huge volume of requests, it is a process that has different characteristics in the various CABs ( Bipartite Evaluation Committees) that we established to analyze these processes. in this sense, more than 30 000 situations have already been assessed. of these, half — I repeat, half — had already seemed favorable. It should be noted that the majority who did not appear to be in favour, either in the central administration or in the business sector of the State, had it only because they already have permanent employment contracts under private law, especially in the business sector of the State. The problems that have been identified have been solved and the Socialist Party has been contributing to these solutions by not excluding any. The PS has come to propose solutions, such as the housing requirement, which has already been overcome by an interpretative rule that we introduce in the State budget, but also with the dialogue we have come to establish with all the representative structures that want to dialogue with us, all the bodies and all the institutions. This is how this process is done. It should be said that the path we have come to is a path, in this and other matters, which is only possible with the agreement we have established around the parliamentary majority that has been created. But it is also worth explaining and reaffirming that, without the Socialist Party, certainly there would have been no way over these three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this debate we have finally heard the right. The right, after what you have done and then, above all, of what you have reaffirmed here this morning, has no political authority to talk about the programme of regularization of precarious links. What they said here was truly extraordinary because the contribution of both the PSD and the CDS to this debate was not the one they gave this morning, not in recent months. The contribution they made to this debate was even the creation of the precarious ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u205	You weren't here, were you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u206	I repeat : it was even the creation of the precariouss! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was even the rupture of labor relations within the state, it was the persecution of public servants, it was the cut of wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u207	The cuts were because of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u208	...it was precarious, it was the imposition of wage cuts, it was the imposition of time. [[PSD protests.]] And when they did not create these deficiencies, they fired us or sent us to requalification, the problem already solved by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During right-wing governance, the Public Administration lost 60 000 workers and this should not make you proud, but it is obviously something that makes you proud. In this debate, you should take advantage of this to apologize to the workers and the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But no... And now I add something else: you also have to apologize for what you said this morning. I heard Mr Álvaro Batista talk about shame and I heard Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia talk about fraud. [[Protests by PSD Member Álvaro Batista.]] Mr. Álvaro Batista, shameful was your intervention in saying that there are tailor-made competitions, contests that are party employment agencies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u209	It was a shame! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u210	...maybe designing the way the PSD, when it is in government, understands the Public Administration and its relationship with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is a shame, Mr, because you do not have, cannot have any proof of what you have said. You have zero proof of what you said and you know why? Because it's a lie! It's a lie what you came here to say and you know! This is an insult to workers and to the entire Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why, at the end of this debate, in a way, we are like we were: on the right we have zero solutions, we have zero proposals, we have maximum lies and maximum demagogy. on the side of the Socialist Party, here we are and we will continue to contribute to dignified, fair and weighted solutions, ensuring that no one stays behind. I can assure you no one will stay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u211	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish the debate, and we are even at the final stage, there are two notes that it is important to reiterate. from PSD and CDS, unfortunately, we only saw one more exercise of absolute political hypocrisy, but above all the brand left was the one that remained of its governance: the permanent insult to the workers and workers of this country. And that will not be forgotten in this debate. The second note has to do with the Socialist Party, since its attitude we have to say, we are concerned about the future. We know that the government is not present, which is worrying, and the Socialist Party has not responded to the facts that are before everyone in respect of the breaches of the law. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a choice to be made here: how does the Socialist Party want to stay in this process and which side of the wall will remain on? Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, it is not enough to say that if you want to fight precariousness, you have to act effectively on it and that means not looking aside to the problems that have been identified here and to the situation of many of the workers who are here with us today. This means that, if they are convinced to have PREVPAP, I hope that they will also be convinced to solve quickly the problems and situations mentioned here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u213	To close the debate, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate a word of criticism is justified for the absence of the Government, not that the Government was legally obliged to participate in it but because, being a matter of great importance and in which its action is clearly questioned, it would make all sense that it had contributed to this debate and we must only regret the absence of the Government. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, combating precariousness at work is a struggle for civilization. A permanent job must correspond to an effective employment contract. This is a matter of decency and justice in labour relations. It is a matter of respect for the dignity of work, of respect for the dignity of workers. The precariousness of work is the precariousness of the lives of workers and their families. The problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a public sector problem, it is also a private sector problem, and precariousness must be combated in all sectors of working life. It happens, however, that with regard to the public sector and the business sector of the State, the State has particular responsibilities and cannot give the bad example of being the biggest employer in the future, of being the greatest generator of precariousness. therefore that a very strong attitude is imposed, very determined to combat job insecurity in the state, thus contributing with a good example so that the private sector can change its attitudes and also combat job precariousness. For the CFP, the fight against precariousness has been a central priority of this Legislation. That is why we supported, considered positive and constructively participate in the adoption of PREVPAP. What we criticise is not the fact that PREVPAP exists but rather the shortcomings we detect and that it is possible for everyone to verify with regard to its application. But seeing here the PSD and the CDS in this debate says that PREVPAP has earned expectations is extraordinary, when the PSD and CDS in the government not only did not move a straw to combat precariousness as they did more than that: for the workers, what they did was cut their salaries and fire workers from the public sector. They don't have the slightest political authority to come here talking about inadequacies! [[PCP applause.]] It is not worth coming to the language of the budget, because this is clearly not a budgetary issue. There is a political will, of course, that the Budget still in force and the State Budget approved for 2019 provide perfect coverage for precarious workers to be integrated. You are very concerned about workers, at the same time that in this House you approve everything that is worse about changing jobs. When you talk about high expectations, it is appropriate to say that what is reaching the expectations of the PSD and the CDS is not that workers are out but that there are precarious workers who are integrated, because if you were in the government you would not be one precarious worker would be integrated into the permanent job. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has scheduled this debate because it considers that PREVPAP is far from being fulfilled. It is not just a question of expectations, it is a question of its effective compliance and that is why we have appointed this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u215	Ah, so it's a fraud! It's also a PCP fraud! The CFP agenda and then votes. The PCP is also a fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u216	It is not the PSD or the CDS that schedule it, it is the PCP that the agenda because it has this concern, with all seriousness, because there are incomprehensible delays, incomprehensible locks and because there is an exclusion of workers that is incomprehensible and this situation needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u217	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u218	We point out, the problem is not PREVPAP, the problem is that it must be fully and scrupulously fulfilled. Finally, the problem is not only PREVPAP, because we would hardly walk if we had made an extraordinary regularisation programme, but then the State would continue to hire precarious workers. That is also what needs to be changed and the fight against precariousness, the struggle for a permanent job to correspond to an effective employment contract, is a struggle that the CFP will never abandon. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. I request the services to prepare the electronic record for the verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 196 presences, to which seven are added, of the Deputies António Topa, José de Matos Correia and Pedro Pinto, of the PSD, Elza Pais and André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, Assumption Cristas and Pedro Mota Soares, of the CDS-PP, making 203 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u222	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the voting process with regard to three draft resolutions which will be voted on later, with regard to Monchique, and Mr President, will decide whether the appropriate time is this or whether it will be better immediately before those votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u223	Mr President, I think it is better to do it now to make it clear what will be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u224	Mr President, the question is as follows: we shall vote ahead of draft resolutions Nos 1843 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently adopt a simplified procedure for supporting the victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which occurred in August 2018, 1856 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a simplified procedure to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018, and 1867 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and dissemination of simplified procedures to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira in August 2018. It happens that while the draft resolution of the Left Block respects the rules that were decided at the Leaders Conference, because it entered before 4 October—which was when the new rules were considered to enter into force—in the case of the PSD and CDS draft resolutions, its presentation is, of course, a legitimate right of the parliamentary groups, but, according to the new rules, these draft resolutions should have been scheduled at the Leaders Conference and not been referred to the Commission under the old rules. In fact, I must say that in this matter, the CFP has not only submitted a draft resolution because it has scrupulously complied with the rules decided. If those who comply with the rules are affected, we will have to rethink this whole situation, because we see that they continue to bring down to the Commission draft resolutions which, according to the rules decided at the Leaders Conference, should not be brought down to the Commission for discussion and only be voted on in plenary, but should be scheduled by the respective parliamentary groups at the Leaders Conference, precisely. I would therefore like to point out that there are two draft resolutions which are clearly violating what has been decided, which obviously harms other parliamentary groups, such as the specific case of the CFP, which respect the rules. We believe that this issue must be reassessed at the future meeting of the Conference of Leaders so that the rules are clear and there are no parties affected by their compliance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u225	Mr President, I just wanted to inform you of two things. The draft resolution of the Left Block, under any circumstances, would not only have been accepted as referred by me to the Commission. What we decided at the Leaders Conference was that the draft resolutions may have two destinations: scheduling at the Leaders Conference or being sent by the President to the Commission. in these projects, I considered these to be issues that, although located, have national political scope and that is why I sent them to the Commission. This is an issue that we will be able to discuss again at the Conference of Leaders, but there is a decision of the Conference of Leaders itself that I have green light to be able to do one of the two things without having to justify it. That's all I wanted to clarify, but I'm always available to hear better suggestions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u226	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u227	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u228	Mr President, except for due respect, what Mr President says is correct but that decision cannot be discretionary,... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u229	Ah, now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u230	... because the outcome of the Conference of Leaders was that only resolutions which are considered in their own proper sense, in constitutional terms, could be referred to committees, in terms that apply to all resolutions. For all other cases there must be a uniform criterion, which is the agenda at the Conference of Leaders, because if there is no criterion that is uniform and can be respected by all, then there will be no rules, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u231	Mr President, as you know, there was a very long process in the Conference of Leaders until this final formulation was reached, which does not contain these formulations that have passed during intermediate periods and therefore, as several Members recognize, there is a discretion that has been accepted by the Conference of Leaders but which may be reviewed at another Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u232	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u233	Sir, we are not going to prolong this incident, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u234	Mr President, on behalf of the CDS, I would just like to mention that the CDS, in fact at the Conference of Leaders, warned about this matter. at the same time, I would like to express my agreement with Mr President's decision, because it is a power which has in fact been conferred on him, although also agreeing with the criticism made by Mr António Filipe, but that power has been attributed to him precisely by the CFP and therefore by Mr António Filipe. I just wanted to clarify this, especially against the vote of the CDS and the Left Block. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then begin the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin by voting vote No 686 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PAR, BE and PS ) — Regret of the death of Fernando Belo. I draw attention to the presence of Fernando Belo's family in the gallery. I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last day 3, Fernando Belo. Fernando Belo's life and work have the mark of heterodoxy and permanent demanding dialogue and worship among different knowledges. Born 1933, he graduated from Civil Engineering at the Technical Higher Institute in 1956. He later attended the seminary and, after his ordination as a priest, he was a military chaplain at the Ota Base. His political commitment to the fight against dictatorship was the basis of his transfer to the parish of Baixa da Banheira. In 1968, he graduated in Theology from the Catholic University of Louvaina and from the Catholic Institute of Paris. Date of 1974 the publication in France of his work A materialist reading of the Gospel of Mark: narrative, practice and ideology, which courageously opened the field of biblical exegesis to the relationship between the universes of Christianity and Marxism and which was considered at this time a visionary exegetical strategy. This was recognized by the Institute of Protestant Theology of Paris, which awarded him the honorary doctorate caused in 1977. He was a professor at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, having studied there in 1989 with an important thesis on the linguistics of Ferdinand de Saussure, a field that would continue to work brilliantly in works such as Epistemology of Sense or Philosophy and Language Sciences, having his reflection and writing also affected the relationship between philosophy and science. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Fernando Belo and expresses its heartfelt condolences to his family."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 688 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the President of the HR and the PS ) — I regret the death of Manuel Santos Serra, to whom I associate and will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u238	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last November 29th, Manuel Santos Serra. Democratic, socialist, doctor, poet. Natural of Silveira, county of Penela, where he was born in 1926, was at the age of 7 to live for Albufeira, a land that he soon adopted as his own, which is why he always felt—with indistinct pride, say—the algarve. He studied at the Faro High School and then in Coimbra, where, in 1950, he graduated from Medicine. On his return to Albufeira, and prevented by the New State from the practice of public medicine, due to his recognized support for the opposition movements to the regime, he began his professional activity in a private office, which kept open until the end of his long and filled life. As a doctor, he became known to be always available to those in need of health care, regardless of social strata. He integrated and supported a wide range of institutions of social and cultural solidarity, including the Volunteer Bombers, of which he was founder, the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Albufeira and the Centro Cultural António Sérgio. Manuel dos Santos Serra participated actively in the foundation of the National Health Service, being in the Algarve one of its main incentivators. in the municipality of Albufeira, he was responsible for the creation of the health centre and valences, where he was director between 1975 and 1997, so precisely the government, through the Ministry of Health, has just assigned his name to him. He was an anti-fascist. Very active in the movements and tertulias of democratic opposition, always defending the values of humanism, democracy and freedom. After April 25, 1974, he helped to establish in the Algarve the Socialist Party, which was one of the first dynamizers and ethical reference. During three mandates ( 1983 - 1987, 1992 - 1996 and 1997 - 2001 ) he was President of the Municipal Assembly of Albufeira. In addition to the exercise of medicine and political activity, Manuel Santos Serra was still a prominent intellectual, with regular editorial activity, editing more than a dozen books of poetry and other texts, spreading its verses, between real and utopia, without respect for canons or limits. Manuel Santos Serra, lived up to 92 years engaged in the cause of his life: citizenship. He was an infinitely complete man. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents to the family of Manuel Santos Serra, wife, children and grandchildren, to the Socialist Party and to the municipality of Albufeira his most sympathetic condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u239	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 689 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Portugal - United States of America ) — Not to mention the death of George H. W. Bush, who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Emilia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u240	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last November 30, died the former president of the United States of America, George H. W. Bush, 94 years old. George H. W. Bush became 41. the President of the United States in 1989, having completed his term of office until 1993. His presidency coincided with the end of the Cold War, a process that accompanied Ronald Reagan's Vice-President, leading the country during a period of redefinition of world order. He has always defended the US's special connection to Europe and multilateralism. He was one of the mentors of the transformation of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). Their credit is also due to Kuwait's release under a resolution of the United Nations Security Council and the continued existence of unified Germany in NATO. Before becoming President, George H. W. Bush had a long and remarkable career of dedication to public service. He served in World War II, as Navy Officer, as Director of the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency), Congressman by Texas, for two mandates, Ambassador to the United Nations, special envoy from the United States to China, and leader of the Republican Party. His patriotism, devotion to the public cause and the solidity of character mark the memory that he will remain. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, signed the death of George H. W. Bush, conveying to his family and his country his sadness and sorrow and remembering him as a friend of Portugal ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u241	We shall proceed to the vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to Vote No 682 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the acquittal of Asia Bibi, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last October 30th, the Supreme Court of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan determined the absolution of Asia Bibi, sentenced to death in 2010 by blasphemy against the prophet Muhammad, when he actually affirmed a different faith from the official religion of the Pakistani State. Everyone has the right to profess the religion or belief they choose. This right is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and protected by international law. in this sense, the revocation of the sentence of Asia Bibi represents a victory of the right for freedom, against persecution and against religious intolerance. It is, however, with concern that the Assembly of the Republic registers the spread of indignation and protest, among the most radical fringes of Pakistani society, against the judicial decision made, which prompted the family of Asia Bibi to seek asylum in a number of countries, due to the feeling of insecurity generated. The Asia Bibi case was the target of the most diverse manifestations of support for its liberation and repudiation of its condemnation. The Assembly of the Republic, through various initiatives, called on the Pakistani authorities to use all powers within the legal system, in the sense that, as it was of justice and humanity, to reverse the situation of Asia Bibi. at this time, there is a need for vigilant and permanent follow-up by the international community, insisting that the Pakistani authorities take the necessary measures for the release of Asia Bibi in security and that all those involved in this case can freely exercise their rights without judicial harassment or other reprisals. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the judicial decision adopted by the Supreme Court of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, which determined the absolution of Asia Bibi, calls for a watchful and permanent follow-up of the international community to this case, and stresses the importance and modernity of defending religious freedom as well as ensuring the protection of all those who profess a different faith from the official religion of the Pakistani State ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u243	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 683 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Praised by the European victory of the National Selection of Andebol in Chair of Wheels, which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The National Selection of Andebol in Chair of Wheels has been marked by a European champion of the modality, winning Croatia by 20 - 7, at the end of the European Tournament which took place in Leiria. in the same Tournament, the award of MVP (Most Valuable Player) was for Portuguese Ricardo Queirós. The victory of the National Selection of Andebol in Chair of Wheels is the corollary of the work that has been done since the beginning of the project, in 2009, and that represents an example of integration by sport and boosting nationally for the practice of the modality. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates players, technicians and leaders of the National Selection of Andebol in Chair of Wheels, highlighting the results achieved».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u245	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 685/ XIII/4. a ( submitted by the PSD and signed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the achievement of the European Tournament of Andebol in Chair of Wheels by the Portuguese selection, which will be read by the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u246	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 1 and 2, the 3rd took place in Leiria. the European Andebol Tournament in Wheelchair. After the silver medals obtained in the two previous editions, the Portugal Selection won for the first time in history this competition organized by the European Federation (EHF). He won wins in all the games played, and at the end he obtained a result of 20 - 7 against the Selection of Croatia. This selection, which includes athletes of both genres, competing on the same team, integrates the social responsibility project « Andebol4All », including, developed by the Andebol Federation of Portugal, which covers disabled citizens and citizens deprived of their liberty. It was another important step in consolidating this very worthy work. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its appreciation for the victory of Portugal in this competition, praising the Andebol Federation of Portugal and, in particular, all those who have integrated the National Selection of Andebol in Chair of Rhodes, who have overcome all limitations and difficulties, have won this title for our country».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u247	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 684 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings for World AIDS Day, which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u248	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "December 1 marks World AIDS Day as a way to alert populations to the need for prevention and precautions against the AIDS virus. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which attacks the immune system, destroying its defense capacity. The HIV-infected patient becomes progressively weak, fragile, risking disease that can lead to death. The infection is transmissible and therefore known forms of transmission should be avoided. Portugal has seen a significant reduction in the incidence of the disease in recent years due to the commitment of health professionals, activists, users and scientific community, contributing to better access to medicines for the treatment of infection. of the results and findings recently disclosed, the following is highlighted: 91, 7% of people living with HIV infection are diagnosed; 86, 8% of people diagnosed are being treated; and 90, 3% of people being treated have undetectable viral burden. Portugal has recently been referred by WHO ( World Health Organization ) for the progress achieved, allowing it to belong to the small group of European countries with more patients diagnosed and under treatment, which have ceased to transmit the infection. For example, it refers to the pilot project that has been able to carry out rapid tests in community pharmacies and clinical pathology laboratories / clinical analyses, without the need for prior medical prescription, improving accessibility in early detection of HIV infection and viral hepatitis. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the commemoration of World AIDS Day, highlighting the work done in this area and the successes achieved in recent years, which reflect the decrease in the number of new cases diagnosed and the decrease in the number of deaths associated with infection».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u249	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, since Vote No 687 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE and signed by a PS Member ) — Rejection for the confinement and isolation of migrants in Denmark will not be voted on today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u250	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u251	Please, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u252	Mr President, if I may explain it, the Committee on European Affairs has asked to debate this vote and we have given our consent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u253	All right, Mr. Deputies. We will therefore continue with the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 145 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Judicial System Organization. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote on the Bill No 147 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Public Prosecutor. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This initiative is also down to 1. the Commission. Let us now vote on a request submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for a period of 90 days, of the Proposal for a Law No 148 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the first revision of the National Territorial Policy Programme. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As required, the bill goes down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, on the Proposal for a Law No 152 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to lay down the rules to which the XVI General Population Review and the VI General Housing Review ( Census 2021 ) should comply with. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 146 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the scheme for access and exercise of sports coach activity. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] This initiative is down to 12. the Commission. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 1021 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker( 14 ). the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1022 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective recruitment in the business public sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1025 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, proceeding to 14. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 75 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Amendments to the Convention of the International Organisation of Mobile Communications via Satellite, adopted by 20. the Assembly of the IMSO, held in Malta, on 2 October 2008. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall also vote in a global vote on the motion for a resolution No 78/ XIII/4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Third Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 10 November 2010. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall also vote in a global vote on motion for a resolution No 79 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, opened for signature in Vienna on 20 September 2012. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1843 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently adopt a simplified procedure for supporting the victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which occurred in August 2018. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1856 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a simplified procedure to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which took place in August 2018. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is also down to 7. the Commission. We now vote in general on draft resolution No 1867 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and dissemination of simplified procedures to support victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which took place in August 2018. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is also down to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u254	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u255	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u256	Mr President, it is to be announced that a statement of vote will be made on the last three votes on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u257	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 137 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the transfer by air carriers of data from passenger identification records and the processing of such data by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 681. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u258	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u259	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u260	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u261	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 143 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Drug Control Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft Law No 1011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August, which establishes the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory. [[The vote was taken, with votes in favour of the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u262	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u263	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u264	Mr President, it is to inform us that, on this last vote, we will deliver a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-07.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. At the end of the vote, we have to put the next agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place on Tuesday at 3 p.m. there shall be a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, to be followed by a debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, preparatory to the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 44 minutes.]]
