ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Alves, to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to announce the withdrawal, by the proposer, of the Drafts of Law Nos 863 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Repeal of the additional municipal property tax ( AIMI) and 866 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u3	Mrs. Members, let us, then, enter the agenda, which results from a marking of the Left Block, in which will be generally appreciated the Bills No. 1007 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Access to the civil identity of donors of gametes by persons born as a result of treatments or procedures for assisted medicinal products and creation of a transitional standard for donations prior to 24 April 2018 ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 1030 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Access to information on the civil identification of donors in assisted medical procreation processes, 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Law on the Processing of Medicinal Products Assisted ) — Suitable for the system of confidentiality of donors to the provisions of Constitutional Court Judgment No 225 / 2018 of 24 April 2018 and 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the regime of confidentiality in assisted medicinal product breeding treatments ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques ), together with Draft Resolution No 1879 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments shared by the National Health Service and, in general, the Bill No. 1033 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, allowing access to the identity of the donor of gametes or embryos by persons born as a result of assisted medical procreation processes. To open the debate and present the initiatives of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 26 November 2015, in one of the first plenary sessions of this Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic discussed the issues of assisted drug procreation (PMA) and the pregnancy of substitution. Do so, right at the beginning of the mandate, because it was urgent to change the law. Do so to end discrimination in access, to adapt the law to the expectations and needs of those who needed help to be a mother, to have a law that would allow life projects, rather than a law that censored life options. The Left Block brought answers to this debate and also brought concrete cases of those who were awaiting changes in the law. I brought cases like those of Marcia and Ana, forced to cross the border to do in Spain what their country, Portugal, did not allow them to do, and that was only this: having a child. I brought cases like that of Joana, who was waiting the day she could access the pregnancy of substitution. He had been born without a uterus, but he wanted and could be a biological mother; he had his genetic material, he had a pregnant woman, he had this dream, but he had no law to permit it. I brought cases of suspended lives, of deferred projects, of rights that the law meant not to recognize. I have brought cases that called for an answer from Parliament, and this response was fortunately given at that time. After a long discussion, in the field of specialty, access to WFP was approved by all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation. It was also approved the possibility of access to the pregnancy of replacement by women without the uterus or with disease or serious injury of this organ that would permanently prevent pregnancy. They were good decisions, decisions that opened a window of hope to so many women, to so many couples, to so many families that their project of kinship was denied. They were good decisions, the decisions which Parliament made, because they allowed the suspended lives up until then to realize their dream, their will. It was no longer necessary to cross the border, it was no longer necessary to attempt illegality. Now, by the time all women were able to access WFP in Portugal, they could now do here what was only possible out there, and that it was only this: to be a mother. Now, having born without uterus no longer excluded women from maternity, having lost the uterus to cancer, for example, no longer prevented a parenthood project. The law allowed the altruism of a pregnancy of substitution, the law began to allow a woman to help another woman to be a mother. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u5	Good decisions have been made. So, what brings us, three years later, again, to this debate? It's just that everything changed in April this year. Everything changed after a group of 30 Members and Members, in their majority of the CDS-PP, had resorted to the Constitutional Court for the good decisions that the Assembly of the Republic had made. Everything's changed. The window of hope was once again closed, and with a loudness; access to WFP with the use of donated material was suspended and, in practice, there was no longer any longer; the pregnancy of replacement was also inaccessible, despite constitutional and remaining in the law. at this moment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are about 8,000 embryos at risk of destruction. Hundreds of couples started treatment cycles and were forced to interrupt them because the genetic material they were using was from anonymous donor. There are thousands of cases on the waiting list, for which, at the moment, there is no longer any possibility of reply. There are women who are reaching the age limit to be able to start a treatment cycle and who, without the release of the current situation, will definitely be prevented from accessing the LDCs. Women who were born without a uterus or who lost it as a result of a disease or an accident were once again helpless, were once again prevented from accessing maternity. They have returned the desperate stories of whoever wants to be a mother, of whom they think, once again, to skip the border, from whom they see age advancing without the possibility of accessing the LDCs, from whom they need help, of solidarity, of altruism, that the law has not allowed again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u7	I repeat, it is desperate stories of those who ask for only one thing: to carry out their maternity project. Why stop this from happening? Why prevent, if science permits? Why prevent, if society needs? Why not, if there is solidarity so that it can be realized? Why stop anyone from being a mother? Why prevent someone from planning their kinship? There's no valid reason. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the point where we are and this is the moment when it is required that the Assembly of the Republic do what it has done in a very recent past: that it adopts legislation to ensure the access of all women to the LDCs, that it approves legislation to ensure again the possibility of resorting to pregnancy of substitution in very concrete and very serious situations from a health point of view. It is necessary to answer the questions raised by the Constitutional Court, but, above all, it is necessary to respond to all people who have seen their lives suspended again, to all people who have seen their projects postponed again. That is exactly what the Left Block proposes, with the two bills that bring the debate today. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know that the Constitutional Court has not justified the CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u8	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u9	... in the same way that we know that the goal of the CDS was to end assisted drug procreation, especially heterologus, and replacement pregnancy. The CDS opposed Law No. 32 / 2006, opposed the enlargement of WFP to all women, regardless of their marital status and sexual orientation, opposed the pregnancy of substitution, voluntary and altruistic, always sent the laws to the Constitutional Court. Now, in the face of the whole problem raised, what does the CDS have to propose today? The increase in the number of LDCs cycles. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS present serious proposals in this debate. [[Really? Our proposals are always serious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u11	The problem is that at present there are thousands of people who cannot access any WFP cycle,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u12	Exactly! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u13	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u14	... I repeat, no WFP cycle—it's not five, it's not three, it's not two, it's not one, it's zero— as you wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u16	What the CDS-PP proposes, in practice, is that people become unable to access five cycles instead of being prevented from accessing three cycles. Nothing, therefore, that serves women and couples who wait for serious and concrete answers to their lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u17	There is no doubt about the real will of the CDS-PP. But, apart from that, the Constitutional Court did not declare unconstitutional the enlargement of WFP to all women, it did not declare unconstitutional the end of discrimination by sexual orientation and civil status.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u18	Be serious, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u19	The fact is that the Court did not declare unconstitutional — I repeat, did not declare unconstitutional — the model of pregnancy of substitution followed by the law; on the contrary, said the same Court that the model approved here does not violate fundamental principles, such as the dignity of the human person, whether of the pregnant child, or of the child born from the pregnancy of substitution, and much less questions the best interests of the child or the duty of the State of protection to children. The fact, too, is that amendments to the law are necessary, because some of the rules deserve objection, and it is about these new changes in the law that we must pronounce today. Without these changes, everything will remain suspended, without these changes, the stories of desperate lives will continue, without these changes, the window of hope that we open will, after all, be closed again. These legislative changes may not be the ones we initially advocated, they may not be the ones we considered the best three years ago, but they are the necessary changes, they are the changes that women and couples need, they are the changes we have to make. The question raised about the privacy of the donor, which led to the suspension of all LDCs procedures, we answered with a new regime, which makes access to the civil identity of the donor possible by the person born of LDCs possible. However, we safeguard the rights of donors and beneficiaries who donated and used donated material under the assumption of anonymity, i.e. all those who made gifts under anonymity regime maintain the right to confidentiality over their identity. With this amendment proposed by the Left Block, WFP processes will be able to continue and will no longer be suspended, pending cases may have answers, the gambling bank will re-operate. The answer is not to pass the border to jump or give up dreams and projects, the answer is to give the conditions for the realization of these dreams here, in Portugal! With regard to the issues raised regarding the pregnancy of substitution, we accept the amendments on the nullity and the desirability of the contract and we also accept the amendment on the period of revocation of the consent of the pregnant woman, moving this revocation to be possible until the registration of the child. With these changes, it will be possible again to use the pregnancy of substitution, by whom, not having a uterus or a serious disease that prevents pregnancy, only asks for help and solidarity to realize their motherhood. This is not our initial proposal, i.e. the proposal that was approved earlier, which is the only possible answer. The option, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is between this legislative amendment or the impossibility of access. It's this or nothing! Faced with the choice, we have no doubt: let us make the legislative amendment that is necessary, because we cannot accept that the only window of hope is closed for many women. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the context, these are the facts, that is what is being debated today. The question that we have to answer is this: what will we tell women and couples who have stayed with their frozen lives? For the Left Block, there is only one possible answer: we have to say that we recognize your right to parenthood, that we recognize your right to carry out your life projects. We must say that your lives will not continue to be suspended, that your projects will not continue to be postponed. We have to say that your expectations will not be disappointed. We have to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this hope window, which we have already been able to open once, will now be permanent and final. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u20	Mr Moisés Ferreira, the Bureau records the entries of two Members, one from the PSD and one from the PS, to request clarifications. Please inform the Bureau of how you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u21	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u22	To ask for clarification, then, you have the floor of Mrs Angela Guerra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Moisés Ferreira, the PSD Parliamentary Group has long been monitoring matters relating to WFP. Indeed, we believe that the use of these techniques not only fulfils the right of couples to have children but also contributes to the increase in births so necessary in this country. in the debate that takes place today, several initiatives are discussed, most of which address the question of non-anonymity of donors and only one related to the question of pregnancy of substitution. It should be borne in mind that the continuity of WFP treatments is a serious, even very serious problem, given the chronic lack of donors in our country, even when the gift was made under anonymity. The Left Block has decided not only to present a legislative initiative related to the issue of donor anonymity, which is basically compatible with the others — of course, it will be easy to agree up to a common text — but another aimed at the pregnancy of substitution. This is therefore a serious and even very important problem, and I consider it so important that I voted for it, but it did not include the initial object of the agenda requested by the Left Block at the Conference of Leaders on 6 November, where only one initiative was in question. Therefore, Mr President, what I ask you is that mixing these two issues, the anonymity of the donors and the pregnancy of substitution, contributes to the clarification of the people and couples who await so many treatments. Another question I wanted to mention has to do with Bill No. 1030 / XIII / 4. the, presented by the Block, on pregnancy of replacement, in which it is proposed that the consent of the pregnant woman may be freely revoked until the end of the legally scheduled period for registration of the child in accordance with Article 8 ( 8 ). The Law. In other words, the Bloc considers that the replacement pregnant woman must have a period of 20 days after the birth of the child to decide whether to stay with her, as a daughter, or whether to give her to the beneficiaries of pregnancy. What I am asking in particular, Mr President, is whether this new proposal is correct, according to which the child born of such a process, already very complicated by itself, with very melindre, can be 20 days after his birth without the definition of filiation. Do you think this is correct? Does this respect the best interests of the child and his own dignity as a human being? Finally, Mr President, on the question of the elimination of Article 8 ( 12 ). that of the Law, it is considered that the legal certainty that should preside over the necessary consolidation of the contractual legal positions for the status of these children is thus safeguarded. It's just, like VV. For example, as the Constitutional Court points out — and this is also our understanding — there is still no deviation depending on the time or seriousness of the cases invoked to justify the declaration of nullity. How does this work out, Mr. Deputies? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u24	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Moisés Ferreira, would like to begin by congratulating the Left Block and by stating that the alleged invalids raised by the Constitutional Court judgment have been adequately contemplated in the various projects submitted. however, there are provisions that raise some doubts, which we will obviously have the chance to resolve in the field of expertise and, to that end, we will contribute with all our commitment. But, Mr President, there is a situation that can be put in place, which is that of the pregnant woman, for example, if the child is immediately in advance and registered in the health unit. Can this act be understood as a tacit revocation of your consent? Is it possible, in such a case, that there is a figure of the tacit revocation of the consent? But what if the pregnant woman is married? We cannot ignore that, for registration purposes, the mother's husband's paternity is assumed, unless she declares that the husband is not the father. What if the pregnant woman has a partner who's going to the registry profile the child? in this situation, we have, then, two subjects, husband and companion, others to the business related to the pregnancy of substitution. I believe that these scenarios are not exactly what the legislator intends to do, but I would like to leave these questions so that we can, as a specialist, improve the law, because we want to quickly overcome the impasse which, unfortunately, was created with this judgment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u26	To reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u27	Mr President, Mrs Guerra and Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, I thank the questions put together and will answer some of them, until they converge from the point of view of content. Mrs. Angela War on donor anonymity, we agree more than in disagreement. In fact, I believe that the generality of the initiatives discussed here today points exactly in the same direction, that is, they point to the change of the confidentiality regime from here forward, as the Constitutional Court said, but safeguarding the confidentiality of those who donated under this assumption. I believe that, in the specialty, we will be able to arrive at a joint drafting to ensure that LDCs' techniques are again accessible to all women. regarding the pregnancy of substitution, we do not consider that bringing two bills of law on the two topics should confuse matters, because they were always discussed together and the pregnancy of substitution, as we propose, is an extension of the techniques of LDCs, since it is the application of these techniques to a third person, in very concrete situations, such as women who have no uterus or who have an irreversible and serious injury or disease that prevents pregnancy permanently. Therefore, in the pregnancy of substitution, access to LDCs techniques is also guaranteed in these very specific cases and therefore makes sense that they are discussed together, even with separate legal diplomas. This does not seem to confuse the discussion minimally, on the contrary, brings more content to the discussion. There are questions which have been raised here that are of the greatest importance and which raise several doubts, namely that the consent of the pregnant woman should be revoked. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first proposal of the Block of Left, which, in fact, gave rise to the first Law on Pregnancy of Replacement in Portugal, provided for the revocation of consent until the beginning of the procedures for the production of assisted medicinal products, and we considered this to be the best solution. The problem is that there is a Constitutional Court judgment that says that it cannot only be until the beginning of the WFP procedures, which must at least be until the birth of the child. Between we have a law that effectively allows access to the pregnancy of substitution—despite having some assumptions with which, in principle, we do not agree—and we have a dead letter, that is, a pregnancy of substitution to which no one can access, we prefer to have a law that gives answers to specific cases. But we do not ignore that there are problems that arise and, therefore, we are obviously available to address all these problems in the field of expertise and reach consensus, better legislative practices and better solutions. What we don't want is to have opened a window of hope for some women, for some couples, who now have to be closed with strontically, with the argument that access to the replacement pregnancy is even provided for in the law, but, after all, no one can access it. On the question of 20 days, and to conclude, Mr President, we want to say that there can be a revocation of the consent until the child is registered. Now, according to the Civil Registry Code, and in health institutions where registration can already be made, this can be done until the moment of discharge, which therefore occurs in two or three days. The 20 days are provided for cases where registration cannot be made. This is a variation from what has been mentioned, but that is what is in our proposal. We do not ignore difficulties, but greater difficulties are those that are currently happening to people who need to resort to pregnancy of substitution and cannot, because, despite there is a law that says that this legal regime is legal and constitutional, there are certain rules that are suspended and that prevent access to pregnancy of substitution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u28	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Guerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: "The news has reached me with the effectiveness of a burn-out shot. on Monday, when I was expecting the call of a nurse to mark the date of the second attempt of insemination, who called me was my doctor, saying that after all the treatment could not continue. I cried heartily, as if there weren't tomorrow. I was already walking with high levels of anxiety, because the process is, in itself, very psychologically melindarous, no matter how strong we are in emotional terms. I had spent 900 € on the first attempt, which did not result, and, for this second attempt, it was already in 400 €, between ultrasounds and injections of hormonal stimulation. But the worst, the worst, is that in five or six months my body will no longer respond in the same way and my greatest fear is that the problem is now put in a drawer, with no solution in sight. When, at the end of August, I started the process — and I did it in private, because the public waiting lists are so hopeless and endless that they are no alternative to anyone — nothing made me doubt the normality of the application of the Law. Who could expect that, two years after the Law came into effect, the life of so many people would be put on hold? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the life story of a woman, one of whom decided to speak openly, on the verge of completing 37 years, and one of the thousands of people who were affected by the treatment suspension orientation, given last April, by the CNPMA (National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products), at about 30 centres in the country where these treatments are carried out. This is a woman who is part of the silent group, a group of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese who have not come to the front of Parliament or the Constitutional Court. The Court, following a request for verification of the constitutionality of the Law governing the pregnancy of substitution, has now considered - in some way contradicting the thought contained in the 2009 judgment - that the rule of the anonymous donors of genetic material with a view to enabling the fertilization of women, paying attention to the right to the identity of the child. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are very aware, even very aware, that we cannot disregard any court decision and that our obligation, as legislators, is to find a regulatory solution that solves this impasse in people's lives. However, the subject we are discussing does not agree with the imposition of values in an authoritative way but, rather, with its proposal, with regard to the autonomy of thought of each human being and in accordance with the legal provisions governing the exercise of our citizenship. That is why the PSD Parliamentary Group decided to present the initiative that we are now discussing and whose only objective remains to contribute to solving the problems of infertility or sterility of thousands of couples, who cannot be satisfied with their legitimate desire to have biological children and to ensure a descendant. Families, children, people must be at the centre of political action. And this is what we intend to do with this diploma: to make it clear that we will never abdicate from respecting the dignity and identity of the human being in all its meanings and in all its stages of development. We therefore welcome the contributions of the parliamentary groups, of all those who wanted to participate in this debate with concrete measures and who openly take positions — they do not only recommend —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u31	... to try to find an appropriate solution to this problem. The size of this problem can easily be understood, if we bear in mind that in Portugal every year about 2500 children are born as a result of the use of available LDCs techniques, a number already significant and that, in general, has been experiencing a slight growing trend in recent years. The PSD Parliamentary Group therefore proposes to Parliament that it approve the system of access to information on the civil identity of donors in the context of the LDCs process. Our objectives, with the presentation of this diploma, are essentially two: firstly, to regulate the terms in which interested persons, born through LDCs, may access the information necessary to know their origins, secondly, the creation of a transitional system to guarantee the confidentiality of the donor's civil identity in the context already referred to by Constitutional Court judgment No 225 / 2018. Thus, it is recognized that persons born as a result of LDCs, using the gift of gametes or embryos, provided they are 18 years of age or older, have the right to obtain information on the donor's civil identity from the National Council for Assisted Medicinal Treatment. On the other hand, the right to obtain, from the LDCs centres where the treatments or procedures have been carried out, the genetic information that concerns them, excluding the identification of the donor, is also recognised. with regard to the transitional regime which the Constitutional Court judgment has made inevitable, given the rule of the non-anonymity that is now imposed, means the PSD which must be safeguarded the situations in which the gift of gametes has already occurred or the production of embryos and this genetic material has already been used or, having not yet been, comes to be within one year, in the case of gametes, or five years, in the case of embryos. This concerns the legislative solution which is strictly considered. However, we must recognize that a new paradigm has now introduced new assumptions in the life of these countless couples and professionals of the centers of LDCs, which is that of the non-anonymity of the donor, although the donor had never put the anonymity as a condition for his gift, becoming the rule rather than the exception. And, in terms of genetic material donations, things are not as simple as they sometimes seem: in 2015, more than 300 children — 300 children! — were born in Portugal as a result of treatments carried out with easy materials. But do the thousands of anonymous donors who were protected by the seal go now and so altruisticly continue to donate their cells? Apparently not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Because according to the Ministry of Health, currently there are 161 requests for ovocytes in the Public Bank of Gamétas and the waiting list has almost doubled since the beginning of this year, and there has also been a huge reduction in the flow of male donors and finding the Bank currently responding to requests entered in February 2017. This is the big issue that matters to this debate and, allow me to say it periodically, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is beyond him! In fact, the Constitutional Court’s judgment found it unconstitutional the obligation of absolute secrecy with respect to persons born as a result of these proceedings, using the gift of gamétes or embryos, on the use of such proceedings and also on the identity of the participants in them as donors. And he did so because this court understands that the anonymousness of donors violates the right to personal identity and to the development of the personality of persons born through these techniques, fundamental rights protected by Article 26. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and which can only be restricted within the limits of the strictly necessary in the light of Article 18. The same diploma. It is therefore in the light of this understanding that we must aquilate the rights in the presence, from the outset with regard to information on the civil identity of the donor. Here it is very clear that only the person born through the techniques of LDCs can be entitled to this information. By legitimately accessing this information, it is natural that the person in question can give him the use that the relations of the social domain allow him. In other words, the person born with free gamettes can, of course, contact the donor within the limits to which it permits it. On the other hand, another use of this information, which is to disclose the identity of the donor to third parties, is a much more melancholy issue which may also involve not anonymity anymore, but a certain right of reservation which the donor must also be able to claim for himself. Of course, I repeat, it cannot be ignored that in the future the donor will never be able to demand anonymity as a condition for his gift. It is in the light of this new paradigm that the possible relationship between the person born through the techniques of LDCs and those who made the gifts of genetic material that made that life possible should be contextualized. This is a fact that cannot and should not be ignored, since it cannot be reversed, it can seriously compromise the contribution that WFP can and should make to the much-needed increase in birth in our country. More than the very important legal rules — it is true — what the Portuguese should be concerned about is how the country can overcome the low synthetic fertility index that has been occurring in Portugal for decades : 1, 4 children per woman of fertile age, which is one of the lowest in Europe. In fact, it is worth noting that it is necessary, at least 2, 1 children per woman to guarantee the renewal of generations since 1981 — that is, 37 years ago! — that such an average is not reached, which confronts our country with a problem of subsistence. The responsibility of politicians, but also of society itself and the country as a whole, is therefore that of our generation, which represents a link between past generations and future generations, to contribute to reverse a trend that is seriously compromising the future of Portugal as we know it and receive it from our parents and grandparents. Let today's debate be a contribution to this national awareness is my sincere desire as a Member and, above all, as a woman! Having said that, and finally, I would like to recall that I was part of the group of Members who worked for years all the diplomas that respect the successive amendments to Law No 32 / 2006 in the past and this Parliament, always seeking consensus for the social, scientific, technical, medical and even demographic evolution that brings us all together. My conviction today is the same as ever: that of the weighting of the absolute right, that every human being has to decide about his life. The PSD Parliamentary Group lives and lives with these matters in absolute freedom of thought and we know that other opinions are quite different from ours. But this is one of our matrices and that is also what proudly distinguishes us from other parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u32	For us, talking about LDCs techniques is to defend that the interests of the child to be born are supreme and must prevail over any other hypothetical individual rights and, above all, on the political-party agendas. What summons me, what everyone should call is the suffering and anguish of those who wish for years to have a child and not achieve it for medical reasons. This should always be present in our spirit, just as it is in the first line of our heart the absolute safeguard of the best interests of these children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD have a strong conviction: that children who are born through LDCs techniques have, of course, guaranteed their first right to be very desired! I said it in January 2012 for the first time in this room, and today I repeat: Portugal needs babies, our country is defining in demographic terms and there are hundreds of couples wanting to have a child, waiting for a child for years and with great love to give them! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Infertility is not a fatality, but unfortunately for many women, it is a race against time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u33	There are no requests for clarification, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we fought for equality, we knew that the last civic achievement would be that of WFP for all women. All of them! We always knew. They always knew. He always knew who, because he was not protected by a man, lived outside the law his motherhood. When we fought for equality, we celebrated achievements such as equal marriage or adoption by couples of the same sex, protecting, of course, children who already existed and who already knew who their parents were. at that time, we knew that prejudice would hit the atomic bomb that combines gender and sexual orientation. A woman having the power to be a mother by decision is a top for those who do not release themselves, nor does she do so in a markedly sexist and patriarchal society. In 2016, the law fulfilled the socialist promise regarding the law of LDCs in 2006, ensuring access to the techniques of LDCs for all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation. There was indeed the last and most flagrant legal discrimination involved: the one that said certain women who, because they were not married or actually united with a man, could not be mothers. The particularly gender-based violence of this standard was evident to us. The initiative which, together with others, gave rise to Law No 17 / 2016 of 20 June, did not fall under Article 15. that of the law of WFP which has under the heading « Confidentiality», establishing the non-absolute anonymity of the donors of gametes. That is, since 2006 that the rule of non-absolute anonymity of donors did not afflict anyone, from the very moment the current members of the CDS, who, before mothers without husbands, appealed to the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, but it can't be ignored that attachment to biology doesn't assist you when WFP was destined for a different sex couple and the husband was also a biological fiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The principle of the anonymity of donors was not changed, but the consecration of the right of all women to be mothers led to the need for the successive abstract supervision of the constitutionality of the law of WFP, demanding the declaration of unconstitutionality of all short pregnancy of substitution to informal investigation, imagine! , the paternity of the women's daughters who resort to WFP — which would amount to the extinction of families with two mothers — and the end of the anonymity of donors. Although the Constitutional Court has denied the constitutional grounds invoked by the applicants and has made it clear that it does not make any sense the alleged investigation of paternity in a situation in which the family project does not involve any father, so the confusion that is often seen in the CDS between "donor" and "father" is, of course, sdrüxula, revoked the clear position that it had regarding the constitutionality of the donor's confidentiality. Judgment No. 225 / 2018 of the Constitutional Court, of 24 April, with which we disagree, but of course we respect, declared unconstitutionality with general mandatory force of Article 15 (1) and (4). in this judgment, it is considered that the rule of anonymity of gameth donors does not violate the principle of human dignity, as requested, but conflicts with the right to personal identity, the development of personality and genetic identity. There was a climate of insecurity and emptiness in the LDCs in Portugal, which has always worked with anonymous donor gamettes, the climate that has already been here, in fact, widely explanated. The WFP National Council warned of these immediate consequences in communiqué, making it clear that we would have to do something about the fate of embryos or about ongoing treatments. currently, there are interrupted PMA cycles, donors who have given up being, destroyed life plans, as we have been told by the Portuguese Fertility Association. The information provided by the WFP National Council points to the terrible number of embryos at risk of destruction; there are women who will no longer be mothers because they reached the age limit while this uncertainty situation is not clarified; there are women willing to return to clandestineness; there are hundreds of beneficiaries who started the cycles and procedures and who were forced to interrupt them because the genetic material they were using was from anonymous donor. The Constitutional Court itself warned against the need to find a harmonised regulatory solution between the various issues of Article 15. , I quote, « regulate the terms in which interested parties may access the information necessary to the knowledge of the identity of donors ». The principles of safeguarding expectations, legal certainty, the right to privacy of donors who donate under confidentiality, family stability and the ethical protection of the embryo justify that the bill, this, implements the caution suggested by the Constitutional Court in a differentiated way. First of all, the identity of the donor is understood to be the civil identity of the donor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u36	Secondly, the identity of the donor, obtained by a person born as a result of LDCs, cannot in any case be shared with third parties. A transitional regime shall be established which shall maintain the confidentiality of the civil identity of the donor or donor of gametes and embryos whose donation is prior to 24 April 2018 and shall be used up to 5 years after the regulation of the law, except in cases where it expressly permits it, as well as of donors whose gifts have already been used by 24 April 2018, the date of the judgment, except in cases where they expressly permit it. We can't do anything for those who have already lost their project. We can and should find a solution for those who still go in time to navigate without being in the sea of uncertainty meanwhile installed. We welcome the other initiatives, even those of those who did not come to the debate—as if nothing had happened—only by presenting an unusual draft resolution, the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u38	...the party that was against the cycles and pretends to be in the debate, asking for more cycles in a system that knows how to collapse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't forget anyone! in the request submitted to the Constitutional Court by the Members of the CDS, this pearl can be read as if it were a bad thing, this ultramountain phrase: "Today, a woman can have a child, because she wants to! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's what we believe, based on the Constitution. We'll always say: women. not plural. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u39	With no requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The use of technical and scientific developments in medicine, in particular through assisted reproductive techniques, allowed many couples and people who wished to have children, but who could not, to realize this aspiration. The Portuguese legal system followed this evolution by legislating it. The publication of Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July, which regulates the use of assisted reproductive techniques, constituted an enormous technical, scientific and civilizational advance with regard to sexual and reproductive health. The CFP is proud to have made a decisive contribution to this legislation. It was also an advance to have been constituted in Portugal a public bank of gametes, a bank that enables the collection and preservation of gamettes donated by men and women who, in a benevolent way, and only so we understand it, do so to help couples and women realize their project of being parents or mothers. Despite the enormous constraints that exist, particularly as a result of the shortage of public centres in WFP, and the enormous and endless waiting lists, numerous couples have been able to realize their desire to be parents. It has happened that since May 2018, following the declaration of unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court, in Judgment No. 225 / 2018, many couples have held their legitimate aspirations postponed and, as they have often stated, their « frozen lives», a condition which both witnesses who follow so well illustrate. I quote this testimony: «(...) we are a couple trying to have children 8 years ago, I have deep endometriosis that causes my infertility, that we have a rare type of blood and that therefore donors or gifts are also minor, that was in the beginning of medication to receive treatment with donation, when I receive the call to stop the medication and that they had no date to start again treatment, that only when the law was clarified. That in the middle of it all, I got to the 40s and I know I only have attempts until the 42s. And I just see the days going on and I don't see a date for this law to be settled. Is it a month from now? Only when I do the 41s? I can't explain how you feel. I don't even know how I keep coming to work and trying to ‘do my life’ as if it were all right when it isn't. It is almost like feeling death and loss of a person who was not even born». Or this other testimony: « My well thought-out, emotionally sustained decision and with all family and friends support was taken this year of 2018. Two years after the entry into force of Law No. 17 / 2016 of 20 June, I advanced in the realization of a dream, I dream that already depended only on me and not on third parties (... ). On March 16, this year, I made my first insemination. Expectations were high, as far as my rational side knew it would be difficult to get ‘ the first. ’ And, in fact, it didn't happen. I wiped the tears and didn't give up. on May 1st, I was going to start a new cycle and, between May 4th and May 10th, I would do the second insemination, already with a greater certainty (almost absolute in my thinking) that this time I could get pregnant. however, and suddenly, without any provision, in view of the opinion of the National Council for the Treatment of Assisted Medicinal Products, WFP with donors in Portugal was suspended and my life was also suspended." These are only two testimonies, but they show very clearly that there is a commitment in the conduct of treatments using gamétas or embryos donated under confidentiality and that the legitimate aspiration of families, who very much wish to have a child, has been postponed. The National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products has also, over the course of these months, warned about the need to find answers to overcome, among other things, « doubts and reservations(...) as regards the destination of cryopreserved embryos produced using anonymous donor gamettes; In order to give the cryopreserved embryos for which consent has been granted for anonymous donation to other beneficiaries; in order to give the cryopreserved gametes donated under anonymity'. The contribution of the CFP is to ensure a law that expresses certain rights expressed in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, including the right to freedom indispensable to scientific research, the right of everyone to benefit from the best possible conditions of physical and mental health, the right of the human being to dignity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this regard, wanting to contribute to ensure that legitimately created expectations are not undermined and that scientific and technical innovation can contribute to the happiness of families and to respond to the doubts raised by the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products, the CFP brings here, today, a legislative initiative, which establishes the regime of confidentiality in the treatment of assisted drug procreation. Our legislative initiative amends the legal framework in force, adapting it to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and creates an exceptional regime that allows the use of gamétas and embryos donated under anonymity, on a date prior to the decision of the Constitutional Court, infertility treatments. The proposed transitional regime protects the confidentiality of gamétas and embryos donated until May 7, 2018, as provided for by the law in force at the time of the gift, unless the donors express themselves in the opposite direction, thus enabling the infertility treatments initiated to be resumed and completed. in our legislative initiative, the right to personal identity is also safeguarded. in this sense, we propose that people born using assisted reproductive techniques may have access to the identity of the donor, if that is their will. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is fully available to contribute actively and actively to a solution that, respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, enables families and women to use gametes and embryos donated under anonymity. [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u41	Before speaking to the next speaker, I would like to remind you that there will be votes at the end of this debate. Therefore, I ask the leaders of the benches to take due action. For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PAN, the PCP, the Left Block, the PS and also the PSD today bring to the discussion five bills in all the same. The pretext of regulating access to the civil identification of donors of genetic material to persons born using assisted medicinal procreation techniques is to shape, contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court which clearly and crystallinely decreed the end of the anonymity of donors of gameth and embryos. History is simple and counts in less than 1 minute: in February 2017, the CDS, seconded at the time by some PSD members, required the successive abstract supervision of the constitutionality of the law of assisted drug procreation with a double end—and only that and not others who now try to charge us— : to prevent the use of substitution pregnancy, known in the geriatric by « renting belly», and to end with the regime of the anonymity of genetic material donors. In both, he has earned cause and that's what it costs you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u43	It's not, no! It's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u44	Today, December 6, 2018, the PAN, the PCP, the Left Block, the PS and the PSD show that they do not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision to end the anonymous donor system...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u45	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u46	... and build an entire transitional regime that basically has this effect: all children born using LDCs techniques after 2023, with some minor differentiations, admittedly, have the right to their genetic identity; all children born by LDCs processes before 2023, with one or another differentiation, do not have the right to their genetic identity. That's it, and that's it, that they defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u47	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u48	And it is this, and only this, that we directly disagree — we and the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u49	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u50	Ladies and gentlemen. Members justify - not saying that there are destroyed life plans, thousands of embryos that are at risk of being thrown into garbage, interrupted WFP cycles, women who will no longer be mothers because they are at the age limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u51	There is, and everything is because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u52	Is that a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u53	We do not ignore this drama and we are much less insensitive to it, but we understand that not only is this not the solution of the problem as we understand that the child's right to his personal history, to his origin, to his genetic identity are inalienable values that cannot give in to the equally legitimate desire to be a family.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u54	Pure hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u55	The problem is solved, as we have already proposed an endless time and a never-ending time V. Ex.as have plummeted, increasing the number of PMA cycles shared by SNS (National Health Service ). [[PS protests.]] The problem is solved, ladies and gentlemen. Members, constituting a decent public bank within the framework of the SNS. The problem is solved, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as decided in the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Norway, Iceland or Finland.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u56	We're not the seagulls!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u57	In many of them there was not even a large breakdown of donations and in those where there was a break in recovery was relatively fast and curiously all increased to levels far above the time when the anonymity regime was in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u58	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u59	Study, Mrs. Member! Study!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u60	The problem is solved by successful public policies and effectively aimed at promoting assisted drug procreation. That is how our public policies, which the ladies and gentlemen, want. Members fear not to implement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u62	There, as here, as the judges of the Constitutional Court wrote, I quote, « in the light of the current conceptions about the importance of knowledge of the very origins, as a fundamental element of the construction of identity, the option followed by the legislator(...) to establish as a rule the anonymity deserves constitutional censorship. Indeed,... » — the honourable Members continue. Judgments of the Constitutional Court —... it is difficult to understand today that the rule of anonymity, which is undoubtedly a serious effect on the rights to personal identity and on the development of personality, as set out in Article 26. the, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u63	Who laws are we! There's no subservience!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u64	More: they say that "to continue to opt for a solution that focuses on the gamettes alone, by deleting, as a rule, the identity of the donor and assuming that he will reject the recognition of his role in the creation of human life, or that the assumption of his existence may somehow diminish the essential role of parents — parents in the legal and factual context — of the person born of LDCs using third-party gamettes", is hardly understandable. But even more incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this, you have decided that there is a period from which genetic identity is important and another until which it has no value at all. We reject the view of a society in which there are children and people marked for a term.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u65	Hypocrisy hit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u66	Because that's what you guys do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u67	It is always possible to access the data!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u68	What you do is to shape, in law, a loud inequality, where there are children of first and second ages; children with the right to know their genetic identity and children without the right to know their genetic identity. What you are doing is flagrantly and cryingly violating the principle of equality. And that's why it's obviously unconstitutional. And it's so unconstitutional, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which was precisely why—see only—that, contrary to what you did in the pregnancy of substitution, the Constitutional Court did not limit its effects. In fact, aware of the difficulties already faced by those who had submitted to medical acts to initiate pregnancy of substitution, the Constitutional Court took this into account and, therefore, operated the effects of this unconstitutionality — that of the pregnancy of substitution — only for the future. But, of course, he did not do the same for the end of donor anonymity. He understood, well, that the end of anonymity should apply to all, without exception: to those who are born, to those who are born, or to those who are born in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u69	And it's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u70	from where, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the bills that the PAN, the PCP, the Left Block, the PS and the PSD present today in this House violate not only a decision of the Constitutional Court but also sicken another constitutional problem: the violation of the principle of equality, that the CDS will not fail to signal again and do everything to prevent it. We have, legitimately, different visions of the world. We all respect, as we have always done and as we will always do, but we will defend our own to the end, always on the same side, without hesitation, without fear and, above all, rejecting the idea that this is a debate where on one side is who is against WFP (assisted drug procreation) and on the other side is who is in favour of assisted drug procreation,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u71	... that on this side is who is against the legitimate desire to be a family and on that side who is in favour of the legitimate right to be a family, or that this is a debate in which one side defends the preservation of the embryos and the other side defends the destruction of the embryos. I well remember other debates that we had on this and I know who was on that side. We have thought, we have speech and we have work on any of the subjects, we have very different ways to get there. For us, the way that you and the ladies. Members do the worst, do not respond to the essential and, above all, violates fundamental principles of a rule of law which, on our part, we refuse to disrespect. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u72	Mrs Deputies, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u73	Mr President, I will respond to the four requests for clarification together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u74	You have the floor, then, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u75	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, with regard to the CDS, the first note we wanted to leave is that this debate deserves more seriousness, Mrs Deputies. It's about the issue that raised genetic identity and access to genetic identity, this access has always existed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u78	...and, therefore, is a false argument. You're trying to divert the debate! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is very much needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u79	Do you want to fool people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u80	But the evolution of assisted reproductive procedures is a very important milestone for the country, whether from a scientific point of view or from a social or family point of view. This Assembly of the Republic has already had the opportunity to extend access to the LDC technique to all women, as well as to regulate access to replacement pregnancy. And it was an important moment, which gave hope and a new breath to the will of thousands of women who wanted to access these techniques without hiding, without having to travel out of the country as if they were criminals, finally giving their project of life with dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u82	But this moment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been interrupted. It was interrupted by the CDS,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] ... that today is trying to disguise the responsibility it has in that same interruption, in the same way that in 2006 the CDS decided to send the laws approved to the Constitutional Court. We have already said so, this has considered that the enlargement of WFP to all women does not face the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u83	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u84	And he had the same understanding about the legal regime created for the pregnancy of substitution. Therefore, not all women were declared unconstitutional by the LDC. however—we have already said so— some of its rules were thus considered, in particular the rule guaranteeing the anonymity of gamette donors and, in the case of pregnancy of substitution, it was considered that the possibility of repentance of the pregnant woman should be guaranteed until the end of pregnancy. This is the debate the Left Block is about. It is to these questions that the Left Block gives, today, answers, to improve the law and unlock, once and for all, the law. Therefore, at this moment, all processes are interrupted! It's not worth coming here to deny that they're interrupted, because they're! And they destroyed life projects, forcing many people to consider leaving the country again in order to continue their life projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u85	Don't you know what you did? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u86	however, what the CDS presents today to answer, supposedly, a concrete problem that exists, is absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u87	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u88	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft resolution is a real shot at the problem that exists! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS proposes, with this draft resolution, that the treatment cycle for LDCs be extended from three to five. But do you know, by any chance, the CDS, that the problem is not in the number of cycles right now? Does the CDS not know that the problem today is that it is simply not possible to access treatments?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u90	Ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen, do you know the CDS that this is the problem? You don't know, gentlemen. Members—and that is where the problem is—but try to hide that you do not know this problem and try to deviate, in this debate, for empty proposals and for false arguments, as we have already heard. That's why the Left Block doesn't compact. In fact, the debate needs to be refocused on the concrete proposals that we have to answer to the concrete questions raised by the Constitutional Court. We are not here to account for the lives of thousands of women, thousands of families, who have seen their dreams interrupted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u92	The question I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, is very simple. There are currently about 8,000 embryos at risk of destruction; there are hundreds of couples who have started treatment cycles and who have been forced to stop them; there are women who are reaching the age limit to start the treatment cycle and who, without the release of this situation, will be prevented from accessing the LDCs. Do you have any proposals to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u93	None!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u94	Do you have any proposals to solve the concrete problem that we are talking about and that has been raised? You don't have anything serious to tell these women, these couples, these families?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u95	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u96	Are you really proud of what these people and women have done? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u97	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u98	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, recently ended her speech saying that this was not a debate between those who were in favour and those who were against WFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u99	That's because the CDS is out of the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u100	Madam Member, even as a health professional, if I may, I would like to ask you the following question: how is it that a party like the CDS, which in 2006 did not even conceive of the philosophy of assisted drug procreation, is now in the process of diverting attention—and, indeed, does not come to the right discussion—to propose, through a recommendation—well see through a recommendation! — the transition from three to five cycles, which is proposed, in fact, already plunged into the discussion of the State budget. I would also like to ask you another question, Mrs De Clercq. Currently, the National Health Service shares the three cycles, as is known, up to 40 years. I wonder if you do not think it would be more reasonable, in the current framework, especially with the waiting lists that already exist, first solve these situations, of the three cycles, and then eventually there will be an evolution, later, to another kind of attitude. I would like to ask you a third and final question. when requesting the verification of constitutionality in 2017, and claiming the confrontation between motherhood and the best interest of the child, I would like you to tell us, please, what was the real intention of the CDS to do so. Would this not be the intention not to enable these procedures to women alone or women of same sex couples? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u101	I also have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for one time, the PSD partially accompanies what the Left Block says: this debate has to be focused on what is important. It is important at the moment that the situations generated by the Constitutional Court's decision should be dealt with. Regardless of what we think about a decision, the decisions of the courts are sovereign and we have to respect, whether we agree with them or not. Having said this, we cannot fail to make a complaint here too — and it is profound — about the fact that the Block has not resisted the temptation to mix two things: on the one hand, the LDCs, which is very important, and on the other hand, the pregnancy of substitution. By mixing them all in this debate, even in the draft law presented here in WFP, it ends up sub-respetically introducing, as if not resisting, because it is in its basic matrix not resisting, always putting a barrier in the gear. Knowing that that would put another obstacle there, he didn't resist. We therefore deeply regret that the debate has not been held here, as the honourable Member has said, within what matters. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] What matters is WFP. What matters is the issue of WFP. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very comfortable. I voted in favour of these proposals last time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u103	The advantage is that we always vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u104	I therefore have this personal will, in a party of freedoms, such as the PSD, which has the freedom to vote in these matters, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u106	So I'm very comfortable! [[PS and BE protests.]] This is a part to answer to who seems to be most affected by PSD positions. The truth is that we need to focus on the issue of WFP, and many, many, many doubt also this question of anonymity, whether or not it is the best solution, in practical terms, for so many people who await these fertility treatments. Having said this, we deeply regret that the CDS has also come with such a closed position, so blind yet to the values which we believe are not those of today, that they are shielding themselves in a decision of the Constitutional Court to pretend that we do not have a reality that is here, every day, of all the women and of all the people who intend to resort to these cycles. It's just, really, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect—it is noted that we agree that there are five cycles, it is great, it is the ideal, the better! — that is to say that the reality... is that the cycles are there, are available, the situation is not blocked by the Constitutional Court after this decision. This is to pretend that we do not know that anonymous donors are in the process of destroying the gamemata and embryos, because of the transition deadlines and because they are anonymous and are not safeguarded. We must be serious in the debate and take all these situations into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u107	The question isn't for the CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u108	It is! Of course it's for the CDS! There is no doubt that it is for the CDS. The truth is, we regret that all this is not taken into account. It is not worth proposing five cycles if, in fact, we are not the first to ensure. Having said this, the question that I would like to leave the CDS is whether, when we talk about this proposal for the National Health Service — that is not binding, we are talking about a draft resolution — if we took into account the reality that there is at this time, with the gamettes and embryos that are in the process of destruction, with the cycles that are interrupted, and if it would not be better for the CDS — if you have not already thought about that solution — to look for what is the root of the problem, the problem with which people, couples and women are currently discussing about fertility treatments, instead of being with resolution projects that are not even binding and that nothing solves, they just pass a kind of cloth, smoking curtain about the reality that so many people are waiting for. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u109	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u110	Mr President, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, spoke about the importance of the CDS on the issue of equality and said that they do not accept differentiated treatment. I must tell you that I do not want to waste much time on the importance that the CDS has had for equality, because, of course, in this matter as in others, the CDS has always been next to inequality, with all its legitimacy, defending the inequality between one type of families and another type of family. For the CDS, there is only one model of families, which is the one you believe in, and the others must be voted on to illegality. In fact, we must refocus this debate, as has been said, and we must be serious. The honourable Member, recently from the rostrum, showed that she is so aware that her draft resolution serves so little that she almost did not talk about it! in fact, he spoke of the diplomas that are under discussion today and explained why he does not agree with them—and it is in their right—but he almost did not speak in his draft resolution, which, in fact, transposes a rule that has already been proposed in the State budget and has been plunged! Therefore, you know very well that the system is broken, that we are afflicted with one cycle and two cycles, so coming to propose five cycles is a provocation. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member said that people have the right to their genetic identity. That's a lack of seriousness. There has always been a right to genetic identity!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u112	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u113	Genetic identity is enshrined in the 2006 Act, recognized by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u114	See Article 15 ( 2 ). Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u115	What has now been mandated by the Constitutional Court was the right to personal identity, Madam Member! Mrs. Deputy is a lawyer! Don't do this! Don't do this, because it hurts. A person born by WFP techniques has always had access to his genetic identity, which is a self-explaining concept. Information must be distributed to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — or just Mrs Deputies, why is she the only one who doesn't know, who doesn't know, why perhaps she never saw a child born by WFP on what is the genetic identity picture? Oh, my God! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Don't you know the difference between genetic identity and personal identity? Oh, my God! Do you not know why in 2009 the Constitutional Court did not declare the norm unconstitutional? It was precisely because I thought access to genetic identity was enough! Don't you remember the 2009 judgment? Oh, my God! The Constitutional Court has changed its mind. We must accept and respect. [[Protests by Members of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriça Neto and Vania Dias da Silva.]] But the honourable Member can't deny... and that's what I wanted to ask her: is it true that the CDS, in its request for the Constitutional Court, wanted to end WFP for women of lesbian couples? Is that true or not? Then, did the Constitutional Court give you a reason? No, he didn't give you reason! And do you know why they wanted to end, in your spectacular sense of empathy with humanity? Because they said that if they were women's couples, there was a need for fatherhood. That's because, for you gentlemen, the donor is father! Therefore, in the case of two women, the child would have mother, mother and father and the Constitutional Court explained to you, in the judgment, that this is a logical absurd. Is it not true, then, that they wanted to end a civilizational conquest and failed to succeed? Is it not true that they wanted to end the pregnancy of substitution, claiming that they were violating the principle of human dignity, but that the Constitutional Court said 'no, no, no violation'? That happened! The honourable Member then comes here to say that the Constitutional Court has declared certain unconstitutional rules. You're right, and we're here to solve the problem, which is what happens when there's a judgment. The honourable Member said: "With your proposals, we have a problem here. We are going to have certain children who have access..."—the honourable Member said that she was mistaken in relation to genetic identity—...to personal identity and others that do not have. Those who were born after the judgment or have spent the regulatory time, according to the decisions, have access and the others do not have access. Do not keep on seeking. ” See, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, it was the Constitutional Court itself that created this situation! If Mrs. Deputy has such a big attachment to genetics, this madness of biology that she did so much school in the 20th century, why does not she make a bill proposing that the State provide free DNA tests to everyone so that everyone is entitled to their biological truth? And in case it is found that our father who is on the citizen's card, when we are children of father and mother, is not the real one, then there is immediately a paternity investigation action, because the honourable Member wants to know our genetic origins quickly! It's just that the biological curiosity of the CDS doesn't end! I'll leave you this question. Take the judgment to the final consequences, Your Honor! [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u116	In reply, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen Isabel Pires, Antonio Sales, Emília Cerqueira and Isabel Moreira, thank you for the questions you asked me. I begin by replying to Mrs Isabel Pires and to the question she left regarding seriousness. Madam Member, it is extraordinary that whenever you disagree with the position of another party, the first argument they invoke is that of seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, to think differently is not a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u120	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u121	To accuse others of lack of seriousness when they think differently, that, yes, Mrs. Member, is a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u123	To accuse others of lack of seriousness, when they think differently, that, yes, Mrs Deputies, is a lack of seriousness and a lack of a democratic spirit. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] And I'm telling you more: Mrs. Deputy says it was the CDS that interrupted all the treatments and all the cycles of treatment in WFP. Madam Member, the CDS did not interrupt anything at all, what happened was that, because the CDS required the supervision of constitutionality, the Constitutional Court decreed the end of the anonymity. That is two completely different things, which you deliberately confuse to throw sand into people's eyes. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] But what was important to do, since they support the majority, was to engage in public policies that help the Public Bank, which help the SNS have a way to follow up and respond to people with fertility problems. As for our draft resolution, Mrs Isabel Pires, are all fertility associations that say it is essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u124	Essential is access to WFP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u125	And you know why? Because it's very short the number of cycles, because it's very expensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u127	Everyone says it's essential. And this project is not from now on, it has existed since 2016, when there was not even a constitutional decision, and you have dropped it! That, therefore, is an issue that you are squambling about, but that is absolutely true. Mr António Sales, I must say to you, with all my respect for you, that you confuse Beira's stay with the roadside. Never, the CDS, nor in 2006, was against WFP, on the contrary! We are against anonymity, as the Constitutional Court has stated! They are two completely different things that you also deliberately confuse. Mr Member, I hope that you will know, as a health professional, the 2017 Access to Health Care Report of the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), when there was not even a judgment of the Constitutional Court, in which the number of cycles decreased — see only — 11 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u128	Don't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u129	Whose responsibility is that? Is it from the CDS, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u130	It's your government's responsibility! Your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u131	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u132	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, we disagree on this issue. For us, what is unequal is the treatment given to children and others. If there's anonymity, then your end is for everyone. That is what the Constitutional Court decreed, it was no different.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u134	The Constitutional Court did not, indeed, want to limit effects, as it did for the pregnancy of substitution. There is absolutely nothing destroyed, because there is a law that guarantees precisely the conservation of embryos, and Members of Parliament know well that. We need to refocus the debate and we need to, ladies and gentlemen. Members, public policies for LDCs, which is what is needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u135	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is at least curious or even unbelievable that the successive supervision of the constitutionality of the laws governing the techniques of assisted medical procreation has been requested after its enlargement to unmarried women and couples of women, already in 2016, when this law exists since 2006 and when in 2009 the Constitutional Court itself had already decided in the opposite direction of the decision now taken. What has led this group of Members to submit this request at this time? Sexism? Misogyny? Homophobia? The fear of lost father? But the spell turned against the sorcerers: this declaration of unconstitutionality in relation to the confidentiality and anonymity of donors and also in relation to the pregnant woman in the context of substitution pregnancy affects the lives of thousands of people, men and women, heterosexuals, lesbians or bisexuals, both those covered by the 2006 Act, or those covered by the 2016 amendments. Political considerations aside, there was undoubtedly a drastic change, a reverse with large temporal lapses. Now, there are lives on hold. And the truth is, since the publication of this judgment, 225 days have passed. It is up to us in this House of the Republic to clarify all the points that are in doubt after this decision. There are embryos at risk of destruction, there are interrupted processes. People are lost. Families waiting and human rights alienated. The National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products (CNPMA ) expressed great concern regarding the problem of anonymity, asking: what is the destination to be given to the cryopreserved gems and embryos produced using donors under anonymity? How will the right of persons born using donated gaméts or embryos under anonymity be compatible with the right of donors to maintain the seal as to their legal civil identity on the date of the donation? In view of this plan of high legal uncertainty, the NAP considers it essential to establish a regime in accordance with the interpretation of the Constitutional Court in conjunction with a transitional regime that maintains the premises with regard to the confidentiality of donors of gametes and embryos whose donation is prior to 24 April 2018, the date of the Court's decision, and is used up to five years after the regulation of the law, except in cases where they expressly permit it, as well as in the same terms of donors whose gifts have already been used by 24 April. The NAP proposal is also aimed at people born as a result of WFP processes, using the gift of gamettes or embryos, to be able to know about genetic information that concerns them, but as far as the identity of the donor is concerned only to be able to know their civil identification and not to be able to share it with third parties, except in the case of express consent of the donor. As for the Left Block proposal on the pregnancy of substitution, we know it is difficult to find in the law that the pregnant person may withdraw his consent until the moment of registration of the born child, when it is concerned an act that we know is altruistic and a technique of LDCs that exists for women who cannot become pregnant because they do not have a uterus or have very serious and incapacitating lesions. But the Constitutional Court left no other chance. The Left Block, which we greet, sought to harmonise the law and ensure its constitutionality. We will, of course, follow the principle of this proposal, as we followed the original in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're tied up, but we have to take action. The decision of the Constitutional Court leads us to a path that implies compromise solutions. We then run in the legislative sense which best represents the needs and desires of all those involved. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u137	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We, The Greens, who defend our commitment to science and that its advancement is undeniably at the service of citizens, sustainability and humanity, naturally appreciate the techniques of assisted medical procreation through which treatments are made available that allow for a desired pregnancy and, consequently, the happiness of many families. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who we believe that the law of WFP, 2006, was a very significant step forward. This law has undergone some changes, the last of which produced in 2016, in particular in order to extend its scope, covering more women, in addition to cases of infertility. As has already been pointed out in this debate, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2018 declared unconstitutional the question of the anonymity of gamette donors, considering that this anonymity calls into question the right to personal identity. What practical effects did the decision of the Constitutional Court have in particular? From that point on, and this has been reported by the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products — in practical terms, they have called into question treatments that have already been initiated. Since donors were anonymous, these treatments were suspended. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, many people who had expectations suddenly faced this situation of completely losing hope of being able to have a desired pregnancy under the techniques of WFP. On the other hand, in terms of practical effects, this decision of the Constitutional Court confronts the country with this question: what to do to embryos and cryopreserved gametes using anonymous donors? Well, in view of the situation resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court and the practical effects it has produced, we have to ask ourselves what the attitude the Assembly of the Republic should take. The first, of course, is that it must inevitably respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. But the second, which is also our responsibility, is not to be able to accept that the law on medicinal procreation techniques is being repealed because it is no longer possible to have practical effects. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the projects that are now on the table, in this case being discussed, the Greens have to say the following: the CDS project does not strictly solve anything and the other projects will have the right vote for the Greens. There are several recommended solutions, from the outset the non-retroactivity of the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. that the effects already produced by law are not affected — which is easy — is made easy under the current regime. There are other solutions recommended in some projects, for example, that people born of LDCs techniques can express, from a certain age, the willingness to know the identity of the donor. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a set of possible solutions and we believe that, in the field of expertise, they must be suffocated, discussed, debated, and of course we will find the best solutions that lead to the real effectiveness of the law, so there is political will of the various parliamentary groups to achieve this precisely. This is also the contribution the Greens want to make in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u139	We have no further inscriptions so far. The Left Block is the last party to intervene and therefore I hope that the other parliamentary groups wishing to use their time will inform the Bureau. [[Pause.]] Mr Paula Santos of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has come to this debate with the constructive prospect of finding a solution to the situations in which many families have been left, with treatment initiated, and which are now seen with their treatment suspended. in this sense, we brought our contribution, exactly to help solve this same situation. We believe that it is regrettable — and we have no other words to qualify it — the intervention by the CDS-PP, which has systematically created difficulties so that what has been scientific and technological evolution can be used and can be available, too — let me use the expression — of the happiness of families themselves. Coming to put difficulties, saying that the solution to the problem is the increase in the number of cycles of assisted drug procreation, is deeply hypocritical. It is hypocritical because we can have more cycles, we can have 10, 15 or 20 cycles, but for those families that need the donation of gametes or embryos, if no one makes that donation, no cycle will be possible! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] The CDS-PP, which often comes here to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic to debate issues that are of great importance, such as birth or demography, expressing its concern about the happiness of families, demonstrates well here those that are the nature and the political and ideological options of the CDS in this matter. What you came here to say, speaking in recognition of the dramatic situations, you don't recognize anything, sir. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u142	Nothing! In fact, they do not make a single contribution to solving the problem that is being created. We want to make it clear that, on the PCP side, this is a question that must have a solution, so that these families can realize the aspiration, the dream of their lives of having the child or the children they wish. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u143	Mrs Maria Antónia Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 1 September 2016 Law No 25 / 2016 came into force, which regulated access to pregnancy of substitution in dramatic cases of absence of uterus, injury or organ disease that absolutely and definitively prevents pregnancy. At the time, it was a lengthy debate of speciality in the Assembly of the Republic, an intense public debate in Portuguese society. It was a careful work, taking into account the recommendations of the National Ethics Council for Life Sciences. The fundamental legal triangle of guarantees around the beneficiaries was clear, around the pregnant woman and the life in training. We had been able to confirm a diploma that resulted in one of the most important functions of law: removing the legal barrier to the realization of personal projects of happiness. Portuguese women and couples no longer needed to resort to illegality. We are all more aware that no payment is involved in the pregnancy of substitution, that payment is a crime! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal was going well to make its way with the greatest cautions, but with the declaration of unconstitutionality let us go back and here we are again. In summary, today's proposals have mitigated the excessive secret about the identity of donors and the absolute secret about the identity of the pregnant woman. We'll do our best in the field of specialty. But I said, and I repeat: the alleged invalids raised in the Constitutional Court judgment were, essentially, adequately reflected in the various projects, but it is good that the historical record of the history of this debate should be recorded. It was the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, with some complicities, which raised the issue of invalidity due to unconstitutionality and called for the nullity of the rules already referred to in the Constitutional Court. As a result of this action, they have achieved — and have achieved, an unforgettable fact — the suspension of the LDCs processes and the interruption of the processes that were already in progress as a replacement pregnancy. We are convinced that we will overcome this backwardness with more and better laws. We reject the moral standardization of the family. We're pro-life, but this is science for life and that's what we're talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u145	Mr Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we have just done has nothing to do with the kindness of the drug procreation assisted, not even with whom they should be their beneficiaries. That debate, we have done so in the past. Today, too, the importance of replacement pregnancy is not at stake. That debate has already been held. at the time, each had the opportunity to pronounce himself in his deep ethical sense and freedom. Today, the debate is mainly aimed at giving legal coverage to real situations, de facto situations, which have been at the mercy of the Constitutional Court judgment which has declared the unconstitutionality of some norms of the law of WFP. This process threw into the legal void life projects of people, projects that were under way, under a law now considered unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court concluded with the rule that had been in force since 2006 and protected the confidentiality of the donors of gametes or embryos. This rule was also applicable to the pregnancy of substitution. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, this is the main basis for this debate. It is the basis for the legislative initiative we have tabled. The PSD Parliamentary Group proposes, in view of the circumstances, a good commitment: a commitment between respect for the decision of a sovereign body as a Constitutional Court and respect for the rights of persons, respect for the life projects of the families who acted under the existing law, relying on legal certainty and predictability of legal standards. The PSD also felt invited, urged to respond to the questions of the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products concerning the treatments already under way: what is the destination to give to cryopreservervado embryos produced using the gamettes of anonymous donors and embryos for which consent has been given to anonymous donation and other beneficiaries? For cryopreserved gamettes data under total anonymity, Mrs and Mrs. Members, how can we reconcile the rights of persons born using genetic material donated under anonymity with the right of donors to maintain the seal as regards their civil identity, the right which was legally enshrined at the date of the donation? How do we overcome the contingencies created by the import of genetic material from other countries, such as Spain, where the confidentiality of donors is ensured? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was these questions that motivated us, together with the finding that there are about 8,000 embryos whose risk of destruction and damage is imminent, if there is no answer to the questions I have outlined here, taking into account this leap in the void that the Constitutional Court judgment has precipitated. It is 8000 potential embryos that are frozen waiting for a solution. There are 8000 potential embryos that are frozen in a country like Portugal, where low birth rates are undoubtedly one – if not the largest – structural problem in the country. There are 8000 potential embryos that are frozen in an aging country that needs children. The data indicate that we will lose 22 % of the population by 2070. Today, we are 10 million, in 2070 we will be about 8 million. Low birth brings serious problems of sustainability of social policies. The PSD bill aims, more than convictions, to find solutions for people and their problems. We want to contribute to solving the problems of families, especially those that yearn for a child. I am here on the role of a Member of Parliament but also on the role of a mother.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u147	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u148	in the role of loving mothers who dream of having children, very desired children. It does not seem useful for us to solve a specific problem, and whose decision must be speedy, that today we are discussing the pregnancy of substitution to the blight of a bill presented by the Left Block by drag, whose solution you recommend can create many more problems than those that solve. The Block, in an attempt to overcome all these issues, proposes that, in the regime of pregnancy of substitution, the pregnant woman may decide to stay with the child until the moment of registration. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only after birth will the pregnant woman come to decide, definitely, whether the child is handed over to the biological parents. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, this would be another leap to the void, a leap to the unknown, opening a vast field of indefinition. Who ensures that with this situation will be able to ensure the freeness of the contract? Are we not at risk that child delivery becomes a business between biological and pregnant parents? We fear that the Block proposal poses serious risks to the pregnancy process itself. What are the families and women who will predispose to resort to the pregnancy of substitution at the risk that, after looking at the child, they will feel their heat, their delivery may be denied to them? I'm sure all the mothers who are listening to us understand what I think and what I'm saying. With this process, are we not also making it difficult for the pregnant woman to decide by shooting the decision at a late and much more complicated stage for all? What would be the couples in the future who would resort to this technique in terms of uncertainty? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block, with this initiative, achieves the opposite effect. The purpose may be good, but the fact that the pregnant woman has the possibility of deciding to give up the child until the moment of registration, in our opinion, kills all the goodness that may be in the initial purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a process that is not simple and that is not a party. We talk about the supreme good of humanity that is the life, the life of children and their rights, but also the desire of families to want to have their children. We are also talking about one of the biggest problems in this country, which is the low birth rate and the lack of children. A country without children is a country without a future. The State must be a good entity. Therefore, the PSD is here in a constructive position to help solve the problem for all those who, believing in the rule of law, have been frustrated in their expectations. Families wishing to have a child. As I have already said, I am here in the role of a Member of Parliament but also in the role of a mother, and above all in the role of someone who wants to contribute so that everyone who long desires a child can have it, in the role of those who defend the child's supreme interest, in the role of someone who cares about the 8,000 frozen embryos, who are life waiting for a decision. It is our obligation to contribute to the resolution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u149	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we have today exists because there is a party that wants to impose its prejudice on maternity and parenthood projects in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u151	It's called the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u152	It comes here with lamb skin but we know that below there is the wolf of prejudice of those who reject the techniques of WFP to respond to those who otherwise cannot access a maternity or parenthood project. The CDS created this confusion. We know that the Constitutional Court did not give them reason, because their prejudice did not have constitutional validity. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But we know that the decision of the Constitutional Court has suspended projects and lives that have long waited for science to respond to what nature has not given them. The CDS has a inhumane position because it rejects that science can respond to those who need, for a maternity or parenthood project, a donation of gametas or embryos. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u153	It has a preconceived position because it refuses that a woman can decide on a maternity project without having the acceptance, consent or protection of man, and this prejudice is that it marked this request to the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] But they also know the fertility and family planning associations that the CDS has always been against WFP, always! He voted against! And he appealed to the Constitutional Court every time! Don't come here now to make a clown on a topic that, for you, is political chicana. Political Chicana! It's nothing else. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, besides the ridiculous thing to say to people who need WFP techniques to be parents or mothers who, after all, by the hand of the CDS, will not be able to start a PMA treatment, but who, if it started, the CDS even decided that it should be with five cycles,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u155	...in addition to this ridiculous thing, please see that they come to demand, with public policies, the creation of a public bank that already exists...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u156	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u157	...and that you are stopped by this prejudice of the CDS! It is stopped by your decision, by your persecution to those who, with WFP, wanted to have a motherhood or kinship project. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u158	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u159	But we don't give the CDS a centrality that doesn't deserve more than a candy at the party. It's a bomb at the party. It's a prejudice created and it wants to take people's rights away. We speak to the banks that have presented serious legislative initiatives to respond to the decision of the Constitutional Court. We will vote in favour of all initiatives aimed at responding to the problem of the identity of the donors of gametes and embryos and will therefore vote in favour of all draft laws. I just wanted to respond to the Members of the PSD, to a criticism that has been made and that we consider it not to be true. They accused the Left Block of confusing LDCs with the pregnancy of substitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u160	Mix! Mix!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u161	First of all, we, when we held this debate today at the Leaders' Conference, have done so with the two diplomas, and the outcome of the Leaders' Conference thus demonstrates this. Secondly, the two diplomas have always been discussed together...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u162	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u163	... and, initially, the Left Block even presented the themes in the same bill. It then separated them after the debate, in the specialty, within the Commission, they were voted on on the same day and were part of the Constitutional Court's judgment. We do not now put together what has been separated in the past, we give only future to what must walk together. And we do that even because, politically, it's about altruistic projects that we're talking about. And the Members and the Members. PSD and PS members who have passed the first law that preceded the pregnancy of substitution, I wonder if it was not thought that the pregnant woman would have in altruism the greatest north of her choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u164	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u165	Was it or was it not considered that there may be women who, looking at the situation of other women who are prevented from being a mother, or because there is a disability, because their uterus does not correspond, or because they had to be without the uterus, put this altruism above all?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u167	And if they believe at that time, why do they not believe now, and we have to answer the Constitutional Court, that this altruism can still succeed?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u168	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u169	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not have a closed position on the legal formula, we have full openness to your contributions, but do not now deny a faith in the women in this country in whom they have trusted in the past. This altruism can win again. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u170	We have thus reached the end of today's debate. We shall proceed to the vote, as has been pointed out in good time. Let's check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 188 presences, to which 6 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Deputies Antonio Ventura and Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD, Hugo Carvalho, João Paulo Correia and Joaquim Barreto, of the PS, and Ana Mesquita, of the PCP, making 194 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 1007 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Access to the civil identity of donors of gametes by persons born as a result of treatments or procedures for assisted medicinal products and creation of a transitional standard for donations prior to 24 April 2018 ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ). [[Subject to vote, subject to vote, it was approved, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, vote, vote, vote, vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, the PAN and 43 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ana Oliveira, Andreia Neto, Angela Guera, Antonio Lima Costa, Antonio Topa, Berta Cabral, Bruno Cabral, Bruno Vitorino, Carlos Peixotoo, Clara Marque Vitorino, Clara Marques Mendes, Crisos Simão Ribeiro, Duarte Marques Mareiro Magalhã, Elimia Cerqueira, Fatima Ramos, Fireira, Fireira, Luís Campos Ferreira, Luís Marques Marques Guedes, Is Marquequeques do Guedes, Margueros, Margueros, Margueros and Marques do Margueros, Margueros, Margueros and Margueros, Pedroo Rosseiroo Rosseiro, Pedro Pedro, Pedro Pedro, Pedro Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice Al and José Alo Alo Alo Albuquerquequequeque, José, José, José Alo Alo Alo María Manuel O María Manuel Obio, Maria Manuel O stage Teera, Maria Manuel Teera O stage, Maria Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel Teera was Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria of Teera, Maria Manuel Teera was Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel was Maria Manuel was Maria Manuel was Maria Manuel Manuel Teera was Maria Manuel Manuel Manuel Manuel Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel Teera, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel was Maria Manuel, Maria Manuel Te was elected 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, Maria Manuel Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u171	Mrs. Members of the PSD confirm that the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group was abstention? [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-06.u172	Thus, the record of abstention of the other PSD Members is correct. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we just voted on is low to 9. the Commission. Let us now vote on a request submitted by the Left Block, asking the Health Commission to be discharged, without voting for a period of 45 days of the Bill No 1030 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the Legal Regime of Replacement Management ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Access to information on the civil identification of donors in assisted medical procreation processes. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions by two PSD Members (José Carlos Barros and Teresa Morais).]] This initiative is also down to 9. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Law on the Processing of Medicinal Products Assisted ) — Suitable for the system of confidentiality of donors to the provisions of Constitutional Court Judgment No 225 / 2018, of 24 April 2018. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 9 PSD (Angela Guerra, Antonio Lima Costa, Emília Cerqueira, Inês Domingos, Luís Campos Ferreira, Luís Marques Guedes, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the CDS-PP and 3 PSD (Carlos Silva, Mauritius Marques and Miguel Morgado) and the PSD's abstention.]] This initiative is also down to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the regime of confidentiality in assisted medicinal product breeding treatments ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 12 PSD (Angela Guerra, Antonio Lima Costa, Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro, Emília Cerqueira, Fatima Ramos, Inês Domingos, Luís Campos Ferreira, Luís Marques Guedes, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the CDS-PP and the PSD's abstention.]] This project also drops to 9. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1879 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments shared by the National Health Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of 5 PSD Members (António Costa Silva, Berta Cabral, Cristóvão Crespo, José Carlos Barros and Rui Cruz).]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1033 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — The fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July allows access to the identity of the donor of gametes or embryos by persons born as a result of assisted medical procreation processes [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 5 PSD (Angela Guerra, Antonio Lima Costa, Emília Cerqueira, Rubina Berardo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the CDS-PP and 12 PSD (Carlos Abreu Amorim, Carlos Silva, Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro, Emídio Guerreiro, Hugo Lopes Soares, Luís Campos Ferreira, Luís Marques Guedes, Marco António Costa, Mauricio Marques, Miguel Morgado, Paulo Neves and Sérgio Azevedo) and abstention from the PSD.]] This initiative is also down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote. Tomorrow, we will have a plenary meeting at 10 a.m. with a PCP marking on the Special Regularization Programme for Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ). on the second item of the agenda, takes note of the motions for resolutions Nos 75 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Amendments to the Convention of the International Organisation of Mobile Communications via Satellite, adopted by 20. the Assembly of the IMSO, held in Malta, on 2 October 2008, 78 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Third Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 10 November 2010, and 79 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, opened for signature in Vienna on 20 September 2012. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. We are thus at the end of our work. I thank everyone for the invaluable cooperation and wish for a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 20 minutes.]]
