ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and Mrs and Mrs. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We will start our work today, having as a first point a current debate required by the PSD, which takes place under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on equity and competitiveness in corporate taxation. To open the debate, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese pay too much taxes. They never paid as much as in 2017 : they were more than 3 billion euros than in 2015. We pay too much taxes in Portugal because of excesses and inequities, both in public expenditure and tax revenue. In the case of taxes, including corporate taxes, the generality also pays too much because some pay too little. The general pay too much, but the Socialist Government did not hesitate to break up and reverse the IRC reform. In addition, the left-wings have even increased the state spill over the generality of companies, making the IRC nominal in Portugal one of the highest in Europe. It is true that the Socialist Party has even broken a regime agreement, which not only improved the competitiveness of our taxation as a guarantee to the world and investors the lasting stability of our taxation. Competitiveness and stability of corporate taxation are always indicated as one of the key criteria for investment decisions. Well, most left-wings have destroyed both of them! Competitiveness and fiscal stability bring more investment, which causes more employment and growth. The truth is that almost all European countries grow more than Portugal and all have lower IRC rates than Portugal. Furthermore, as proved in 2015, it is possible to download for all the IRC rate and to increase the revenue for the state safes. For this reason the PSD has defended and insisted today on the implementation of the IRC reform agreed in 2013. But if the left ones failed to undermine the competitiveness and stability of taxation on the worst companies they were when they decided to treat some differently, violating fiscal equity. Allowing some to pay much less, they have forced everyone to pay more. The Left violated equity when they approved in 2016 the asset revaluation regime that, as well as we then warned, was a huge tax bill for a very small group of very large companies. UTAO confirmed: seven large companies benefited from this scheme. Only the EDP Group, according to its own accounts, earned EUR 174 million with this tax ruling. And it was also with this left-wing government that the same company ceased to pay the extraordinary contribution on energy services that it had always paid before. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In these days we learned that in 2017 the same company paid an effective tax rate on its profits of 0,7 %. EUR 10 million of tax on a profit of EUR 1500 million, that is, 27 times less than in 2015 and than it would have been in 2016, was not that fiscal bill of active revaluation. This deserves concern, clarification and action! Concern, because it questions the fairness of the tax system, which cannot benefit a few more resources and with legal holes for aggressive tax planning, harming the averages and small ones, who have to pay the nominal rates, which are the highest in Europe. This concern also requires complete and thorough clarification from the Government on the following questions: how is it possible for such a large company to pay such a low effective IRC rate? Having considerably the same profits you had in 2015, how do two years later pay 27 times less tax? Are these situations and each of the grounds, possibly invoked by the company, legal? Is the Tax Authority already checking this out? If the situation is not illegal, what does the law allow to lead to this result, in addition to the already famous asset revaluation? If this is achieved in 2017, we expect the administrative authorities to investigate and the government does not put their heads on the sand and remain passive. For the generality of companies in Portugal to pay less taxes, as they should, some cannot pay less. If there are with this or other companies legal problems, the PSD requires that it act without contemplation. If there are inadequacies in the law, we demand and request that a thorough specialized evaluation be carried out and published on this unequal disparity of nominal and effective taxation between companies. The complexity of this evaluation recommends that it be promoted by the Government and, if shortcomings and responsibilities are identified in the law, the PSD will contribute to its change in order to resolve the injustices. the government is also called for action at European level, but nothing we have seen in particular to end cases of unfair competition in corporate taxation within the European Union. We in the PSD defend national tax sovereignty, but we cannot accept unfair competition between countries. But it was not just here that we saw injustices on the part of the government. We also saw them when you raised taxes on the generality of companies through indirect taxes, such as fuel and vehicle tax, which fall above all on companies also because of their special impact on gas oil; or when a few weeks ago we saw the government presenting a proposal amending the tax regime for some companies in the maritime transport sector. What it does is to reduce taxes a lot to some and imply that taxes for generality are higher. This is another example of the old socialist policy of assigning special privileges to some by making the majority pay more. We saw this with the companies of the regime of the former socialist government, with the excessive energy incomes in PPPs (public-private partnerships) and in the School Park and we saw it again...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u4	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is also possible, in this area of excessive income, to do more. And the legitimacy we have because we were the only ones in the previous government to cut more than EUR 2 billion, justifies that we demand the government and the left-wing majority to comply with the words they have said so many times and that they finally do something. It's time for acts! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u5	Mr. João Paulo Correia signed up to request clarification from Mr.António Leitão Amaro Tem, then the floor, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr.António Leitão Amaro, his speech is crocodile tears. The PSD tries to whiteen the largest tax increase since 25 April, which was operated by the previous PSD / CDS government,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and come here to say that, in this legislature, tax revenue represents an increase in taxes, which is completely false! Tax revenue increases, because the economy grows and, growing, gives more tax revenue, because the tax burden has been maintained or diminished in recent years. The PSD has addressed a topic on which it has a very negative history. But let's get to the facts. In the State Budgets for 2017 and 2018, the PSD presented a proposal for a drop in the IRC rate. If this proposal had been approved, EDP would have paid less taxes in recent years. in this legislation, four measures were presented, which were approved by the votes of the parliamentary majority, for which the PSD voted against. These measures were as follows: the increase in the state rate of the last stopover for companies with profits over EUR 35 million; the fall in the IRC rate to EUR 12, 5 % inwards to the first € 15 000; the reduction in the deferral of tax losses to large companies from 12 months to 5 months; and the reduction in the number of enterprises benefiting from the IRC exemption for profits and gains arising from shares held by these companies in other companies based in foreign territories. With regard to these proposals, the PSD voted against. And if, in fact, these proposals had been rejected, as the PSD wanted, EDP would pay less taxes today. Nor can we forget that it was the PSD and CDS that proposed in the 2015 PEC the extinction of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector and that it was the PSD and the CDS that proposed at the beginning of this legislature the end of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, which would be a great favor to EDP, which would have saved hundreds of millions of euros if the proposal of the PSD, presented at the beginning of this legislation in relation to the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, had been approved. The question I would like to ask you, Mr President, is the following: has the PSD changed its mind about all this? Do you contradict all the options you have taken in this Parliament? The PSD allocated this debate, the leader of the PSD said it was important to make changes to the tax law, but in his speech there was not a single proposal, a new proposal, a single idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u8	And who demands what? It is at this moment the parliamentary majority and the PS, who is using the word, who asks the PSD : what are your proposals? Have you changed your mind? Have you changed your position? PSD is still out of compass. Your intervention and this schedule are a real shot of dry powder from the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u9	To reply, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u10	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I thank you for your questions, but I regret your confusion. Mr President, I am assuming that I do not deny the official figures that, two years back, the country and the national economy paid more than EUR 3 billion of taxes. That's tax revenue! Mr Deputy does not deny UTAO's calculations that the tax burden increased in 2017 compared to 2016! I hope you don't lie! But, Mr. João Paulo Correia, it is necessary to explain why: you have decided, through various increases in indirect taxes, that, according to your government accounts, only the effect on the change of rates and the tax rules have represented, by the end of 2017, around EUR 800 million, and in 2018, on other indirect taxes plus EUR 150 million! This is only because of the effect of changing rates! And much of this represents fuel tax, which falls especially on gas oil, which falls particularly on companies. So, yes, you have also raised taxes in this hidden form, which has been to exacerbate the tax on fuels. Mr. João Paulo Correia, another confusion of yours is when he asks: "But did you not propose the decline of the nominal rate of IRC and the resumption of the IRC reform? Oh, my God! Yes, we did and hoped that you would keep your word. But the problem is that the honourable Member is confused and has not noticed anything about the problem! It is that what we learned this weekend is that the question is not at the nominal rate, which remains very high, but at the effective rate. Why? Because of a set of plans, if any — we recognise and admit it — of legal inadequacies, which may be the case, but also of your decisions. EDP, according to its own accounts, managed to save, withdraw the IRC that would pay, if the nominal rate was met, EUR 174 million for a ticket that Mr. Members of the Left Block, Mr. Members of the CFP and the Members of the CFP. PS members gathered to give them. Yes, it is with things like these that the nominal rate, which is too high, falls to the effective rate. Yes, see the EDP accounts this year: puts EUR 174 million there at less paid in 2016, on that account. Sir, we are a serious party. The President of my party said, and I repeat here today, that there is a worrying problem. We have pointed out some problems arising from your decisions, which we want them to be altered. First, to reduce the nominal rate and resume the IRC reform — it is a proposal; secondly, to end this unacceptable asset-making programme — another proposal. And with regard to the particular scheme, which I admit may also be in question, which is that of the taxation of groups: first, to ask the Government to make full clarification through the Tax Authority; second, to make an evaluation and promote a specialist assessment, which is in depth about what justifies this disparity; and, if this study indicates that there are also problems in the law at that time and with these conclusions, as a responsible and serious party that we are, together with these proposals that I have already told you a few more amendments. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u11	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leitão Amaro : When I received the news of the convening of this current debate with the theme "equity and competitiveness in corporate taxation", I confess to you that, when I see the proposer, I remembered the title of a series: I know what you did last summer. We know well what the PSD has done in past legislative sessions with regard to competitiveness and equity in corporate taxation. I hope so, Mr President, and I really have to grant, that the current issue that the PSD gives to this topic of today is because it really has a concern about this issue. I hope it's not just an update to keep track of the newspapers. That is why, Mr President, we are going to the debate. Let's start with equity in corporate taxation. The government's fiscal policy has been very clear on this matter. We have two axes: firstly, the positive discrimination of small and medium-sized enterprises and, secondly, the protection of the taxable base of the paid IRC in Portugal. With regard to the positive differentiation for small and medium-sized enterprises, I would like to remind Members and Members of Parliament. Members who this majority has approved two reductions in the special payment on account. On the other hand, this majority approved the maintenance of the 12-year tax damage report for small and medium-sized enterprises and the reduction of the injury report for large companies for five years. I would also like to remind you that for companies, still in the field of equity, with the first incomes up to €15 000, an IRC rate of 12, 5 % was approved for companies inside. But I also want to tell you what the protection of the tax base is, that is, what you have to pay for IRC in Portugal. We are committed to strengthening mechanisms for combating fraud and tax evasion and combating aggressive tax planning. It is in this context that we have worsened the rates on payments made to tax havens that are not listed; we have made it difficult to tax deductions from these same payments; we have placed Portugal on all fronts to strengthen the exchange of tax information, which have allowed us to identify undeclared income or underdeclared income. Mr President, we, Portugal, in the European Union, are in line with the countries that have demanded a discussion on the taxation of the digital economy, and that is why the European Commission will soon present a report precisely to bring more fairness in the distribution of the tax effort of this reality. That's why, sirs. Members, protecting the tax base is what guarantees equity in taxes, because it is what ensures that the IRC that has to be paid in Portugal is actually paid. Mr President, speaking of competitiveness in corporate taxation, because that is also the subject of the debate, I would also like to remind you that the professional gas oil for the goods sector has been introduced by this Government. I would remind you of the strengthening we have made to tax incentives for corporate capitalisation, to have companies with more robust own capital. I also want to remind you of the tax benefits that we created, through the Seed program, to encourage startups. Finally, with regard to competitiveness, Mr President, I would also like to remind you of customs VAT, which allowed 3300 companies to have joined today and which is the extent to which all importing companies consider unanimously as the one that has best contributed to the improvement of their treasury and with this in order to improve their competitiveness. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know where the PSD was when the restriction on participationexemption was voted, the reduction in the period of loss reporting to large companies. the definition of the material criterion to aggravate taxation made in unlisted jurisdictions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we know that, but there is one thing I want to say to you: let us hope that this is a real concern and, to this extent, we will be listening to your proposals to preserve the Portuguese tax base. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u13	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PSD has scheduled for today a debate on equity in corporate taxation. But what does the PSD mean? The answer is often known: on the one hand, generous blessings for large businesses, for economic groups and for great fortunes; on the other hand, tax crushing of workers, pensioners, families and also of micro and small enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u16	We are all very well reminded that the former Government, PSD / CDS, while reducing the IRC rate and providing the economic groups with multiple instruments for aggressive tax planning, which allowed them to pay much less taxes than the dues, imposes on labour income the greatest increase in taxes that there is memory. We also remember that in 2014 the PCP bill aimed at the most appropriate taxation of large capital and at the same time reduced taxes on workers' incomes and household consumption was plummeted by the PSD and its coalition partner, the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u18	With this past, in a debate on fiscal equity, the PSD does not take place at the table. Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, the Government should clarify whether the news that came to the public on the very low level of taxes paid by EDP confirm or not. We know that the government cannot disclose tax data on specific taxpayers, whether they are businesses or individuals, but it can and should clarify whether there is use by large companies and economic groups of mechanisms that allow for significant tax reductions. It may and should disclose data on the effective rates of taxes paid by the business sector. For example, is Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs available to disclose what is the average effective rate of IRC in the energy sector? Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, in the last two years, some measures have been adopted with a view to more appropriate taxation of economic groups and large enterprises, including EDP, measures such as the reduction of the loss reporting period or the increase in the threshold of exclusion of dividends and gains in intragroup transactions. These measures were clearly insufficient. I therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: what additional measures does the Government intend to implement to ensure that economic groups pay the taxes due, without crafts, with effective rates closer to the nominal rate of IRC, of 21 %? And, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, what does the Government take into account about the proposal of the CFP to ensure that those companies that develop their activity in Portugal and which here generate their profits pay their taxes in Portugal and not in any other country? The Government can answer these questions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u19	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Recently, the Portuguese were confronted with a real tax scandal, with an immorality that cannot be accepted in a democratic rule of law. EDP, the most profitable company in our country, had an effective tax rate on its profits of just 0, 7 % in 2017. We are therefore talking about an effective level of taxation, which is incomparably lower than what micro, small and medium-sized enterprises pay and infinitely lower than the rates that the generality of Portuguese families pay at the head of IRS. Now, the Portuguese don't understand, no one can understand how a company like EDP that has profits above EUR 1, 5 billion, which distributes to its shareholders EUR 690 million in dividends in a single year pays a fee of a waste 0, 7%! It's a shame. And if it is true that the Greens consider it necessary to end, once and for all, these tax havens that represent real attacks on common sense and fiscal justice, it is also true that they have not agreed only now for the tax injustice that is installed in our country. It was therefore not the EDP that brought us the light. The Greens have long denounced this flagrant fiscal immorality that is reigning in our country. It was also why the Greens opposed the IRC reform that the PSD and CDS government presented at the end of 2013. It is recalled that PSD and CDS have lowered IRC for large companies, first of 25 % for 23 % and then 23 % for 21 %. It was a great gift given to large companies and large economic groups. It was more a bonus or, better, a set of bonuses. It is recalled that in addition to the decline in IRC, large companies and large economic groups have also benefited from other benefits such as the extension of the reporting period of tax losses from five to fifteen years. But we can also talk about the changes in the corporate group taxation regime, which has allowed the increase in the number of companies covered by the scheme and, with its possible losses, to reduce the group's taxable material. We can also talk about the exemptions from value-added and undervalues, deducting them from the taxable profit that this reform has made possible for large businesses and large economic groups. In view of this picture, we do not miss the subject of the PSD agenda for today. What we are surprised at is that the PSD did not realize that EDP is benefiting from the IRC reform that the PSD itself played. What we are surprised at is that, in view of this case of EDP, the PSD still continues to defend that the IRC rate is high and should therefore be lower. What we are surprised at is that the PSD, which is now so outraged at what big companies pay taxes, presented in this House in February last year a proposal to bring tax benefits to large companies, which the current government has put to an end. It is recalled that, in particular with this proposal, the PSD intended to extend the reporting period of tax losses of large companies to 12 years. However, in February last year, the PSD proposed an additional reduction of IRC for the large economic groups and the extension of tax exemptions for dividends and capital gains to large companies. Therefore, we can well say that we have reason left to miss this sudden concern of the PSD with the fiscal fairness of companies. Although for us, The Greens, when we talk about fiscal equity, the focus of concerns cannot leave out the gross differences of treatment, in tax terms, between large businesses and large economic groups on the one hand and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises on the other. That is also why the Greens continue to defend the need to go further with regard to combating tax privileges that continue to benefit large businesses and large economic groups. That is also why the Greens believe that the government should tell us whether this situation is confirmed and, to be confirmed, what the Government is thinking of doing in order to prevent these situations from happening. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in our view, by moral imperatives, by imperatives of ethical demand, by a culture of responsibility, by social justice and fiscal equity, it is necessary to put an end to the immorality that allows a company like EDP to pay a rate that does not even reach 1 %. For us, we will be here to accept all the proposals that aim to end the painful tax benefits that large businesses and large economic groups continue to receive, immorally. So there is the same availability on the part of the PSD and the rest of the benches. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u21	The Bureau did not register any more entries for speeches in the debate. With no further entries, the Bureau will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco's PSD Member to make the closing statement, since the debate is on the PSD initiative and these are the rules. We will not wait forever for the parties that have not yet intervened or for others to sign up for interventions. [[Pause.]] This time it's really serious. We then move on to the next point. [[Pause.]] The Bureau now records a registration by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u22	We were hoping the CDS would sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u23	The Bureau also records a CDS-PP entry. You can talk at the same time in choir. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u24	It must not be good for Ata, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u25	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's not much time to lose. As you know, today the agenda is very long, so this tactic is dispensed. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u26	Mr President, the CDS insists on not using the floor. Your silence is also revealing what you do not mean in this debate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have been listening to Mr António Leitão Amaro's speech and I have found three explanations for what I have heard: the first is that he has been mistaken in the speech — it is an unprobable explanation, but it is an explanation; the second is that he has been wrong in the party and his bench is not the PSD's; the third possible explanation is that the PSD wants to deceive us and wants to make a position that is not his, he does not defend and that he has not practiced in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u27	That's the one! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u28	Mr Deputy, regardless of the current PSD situation, defacetism cannot be treated with condescendence, and we cannot have condescendence with the exercise that you have come here. Disappearance is the PSD, which is co-author with the CDS of the IRC reform which has put Portugal on the map of the European Commission for encouragement to aggressive tax planning, now to be outraged at the taxes that EDP does not pay precisely because of tax planning practices. About this I think it's worth seeing the PSD registration. Is it, Mr President, when the PSD and CDS dropped the IRC rate from 23% to 21% do you think EDP paid more or paid less taxes? When the PSD and CDS have extended the deduction period of tax damages from 5 to 12 years, more years than in the Netherlands, the same regime that Montepio now uses to create deferred tax assets, do you think EDP has paid more or less taxes? Mr. Deputy, come here to talk about tax planning and effective tax rate and tax inequalities. But what is the exemption scheme? It is necessary to explain: only one company in Portugal has 5 % of a company abroad and all profits, gains and dividends are exempt from tax when distributed to a company in Portugal! Tell me, Mr: who do you think benefits from this scheme that favours tax planning? You think it's the shop in the corner or you think EDP has gone to pay less taxes with the regime than you do. Have you approved, have you created, in recent years? [[Congratulations from BE.]] This parliamentary majority blocked and reverted part of these measures and the PSD voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u30	It voted against the reduction of the deduction of tax damages and voted against when attempting to tighten the rules of the exemption scheme. And he voted against other things: he voted against the reduction of the special payment on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises and voted against the increase in the state stream of IRC. What the honourable Member was there to say about the spillover on most of the companies... it's not about most of the companies. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] The spill affects companies with more profits, large companies, among which — imagine, Mr Deputy! — if it includes EDP. Therefore, he voted against all measures that led EDP to pay more taxes and adopted measures that made EDP pay less taxes. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] It also voted against the Budget, in which a safeguard clause was established to protect from aggressive tax planning schemes that use offshore and territories with privileged taxation. Mr President, the only party that entered the end of the extraordinary contribution on energy in a programme was its party, which provided for the end of the EESC (extraordinary contribution on the energy sector) on large electricity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not forget how the PSD voted the extraordinary contribution on energy incomes, presented here in the last State budget. You know what, sir? If the PSD had voted in favour, today's contribution existed and EDP paid more than 60 million per year on energy income. That is why, Mr President, the breakdown of the PSD cannot be treated with condescending, but it should not be taken very seriously either. The PSD has contributed to the rules and laws that allow EDP to present this shameful and unworthy effective tax rate. Here we will be, as always, to fight and alter these laws. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u31	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate is important and, therefore, the PSD should be welcomed by the initiative, because it enables this government and this majority to be characterized in the area of corporate taxation. The taxation of companies has enabled us to realize — and we are already more than half the legislature — that this government, in this matter, is incoherent, unfair, unwise, and, as a whole, I will give the government an opportunity to prove that it is not even hidden, with a question I shall put at the end. It is incoherent, of course, in the revaluation of assets which it has allowed, a true tax credit card to those companies that Mrs Mariana Mortágua speaks of, which in the Budget it seems that they will pay more and then, in practice of the government, they will end up being benefited by all the bills. This allows the Left Block to make the number during the approval of the Budget and the Government, then, keep everything as it is or even better for these companies. And it allows the Left Block, then, to shut up as if it were nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u34	What happened is simple: the government, for an immediate revenue, constituted a future cost ; for a benefit of its government, put, for the new generations and for the subsequent governments, a cost. The cost is accounted for by UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit): EUR 242 million. What you did was to harm the state and taxpayers in EUR 242 million, benefiting from your budgetary implementation, benefiting businesses and harming the country's future. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When we see the details of this tax bill, we are even more shocked: five companies constituted two thirds of this tax bill. Only five companies benefited a large part of these EUR 242 million. Worse, almost 50 % of this tax stock was for a single company, which even transparently put in the account report that would have an estimated net benefit of EUR 174 million. It's in the account report, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the company that says so. The CDS not only voted against this revaluation of assets as proposed its revocation. What happened? The PSD voted to revoke this asset revaluation with the CDS, the PS voted against, the Block voted against and the PCP voted against. Therefore, if there is a tax ruling on EDP and other companies in Portugal, it is because the Left Block and the PCP supported the PS to make this tax ruling exist. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u35	But the tax policy of this government is also unfair. It is that when we discuss in the State budget measures to simplify the reporting obligations of small and medium-sized enterprises, this majority leads. These companies continue to have reporting obligations every month, and it is still not guaranteed that the Tax Authority will provide the forms in good time. The CDS has re-designed a project on this subject, which is under consideration in the field of expertise. Let's see if this is it. As far as big businesses are concerned, everything is in the best way possible. There are successive cases of large companies which, by administrative decision or by political decision, always welcome this government, obtain more favourable, not transparent and objectively detrimental regimes to the overwhelming majority of taxpayers. This policy of corporate taxation is also unwise, because, in the best possible situation for the Portuguese State, this opportunity is being wasted, from the outset, with the interruption of the IRC reform and the progressive reduction of its rate. It is now that what should be done was to take advantage of to extend the base and put businesses at a lower rate to pay more taxes. Yes, that is what happened when the reduction of IRC by the previous government was applied: the revenue increased, despite the rate being reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u36	That's because you didn't change the payment on your own!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u37	We must also compare what happens in Portugal with what happens in other countries. Let's take a look at our growth. It is good to grow as we are growing, but there are other countries that grow more. Ireland grew 7, 5 % when we grew 2, 7 % — Ireland has an IRC rate of 12, 5 %! [[PS and BE protests.]] Romania grew 7 % when we grew 2, 7 % — Romania has an IRC rate of 12, 5 %! Slovenia grew 5 % when we grew 2, 7 % — Slovenia has an IRC rate of 20 %! Estonia grew 4, 9 % when we grew 2, 7 % — Estonia has an IRC rate of 16 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u39	There are worse cases. Unfortunately, Greece grew only 1, 9 %, but Greece has an IRC rate of 29 % higher than ours. No country that has grown less than ours has a lower IRC rate than ours. You should realize the competitiveness and opportunity that we are losing, at the moment, by ideological complex, by ideological concession and by lack of vision for the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, is this government, or is it not, too hidden? In this regard, I ask only about the occupation rate of the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u40	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u41	I will finish, Mr. President. You included in the 2017 Budget an article saying that the employment rate of the basement was paid by the companies and not by the taxpayers. I have invoices for 2017 and 2018 of three different municipalities, of different operators, who continue to charge the occupancy rate of the basement more than one year after this rule is entered in the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u42	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u43	Are you making budgets for companies to comply with or just deceive taxpayers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u44	Budget is law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u45	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, a debate on this issue is of course relevant and the Socialist Party does not run away from this debate. What is loaded is this debate has been proposed by the champion in the fiscal promotion to large companies in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u47	That is what you have done over the past four and a half years. More, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leitão Amaro: when you had the opportunity to amend your hand in what you had done — and had the opportunity to do in the last two and a half years — you simply withdrew and rejected all the proposals of the Socialist Party and the Left to ensure that large companies in Portugal paid no less taxes. This has been the reality of recent times. Mrs. PSD Members, as they want to talk about favouring large companies, we will talk about favouring large companies, and we will talk about favouring large companies in the energy sector. On October 3, 2015, you signed an order, one day before the elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u48	Did you guys want the excess income? Oh, my God! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u49	...what should make all you gentlemen look ashamed of! One day before the elections they approved and signed an order which simply required consumers to pay the cost of the social tariff and the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, which was not in the rules or the law! Is that social justice? Oh, my God! Is that social equity? [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what you did at the end of your term of office. It is therefore clear that the Socialist Party is not afraid of this debate. The Socialist Party has contributed over the past two years to ensure that large companies have to pay more taxes in the name of social justice and social equity. You have failed, you do not want this debate, you are simply misleading the people of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u50	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: When the PSD, at the opening of this debate, stated that—and I quote—the tax increased with the state's overall effusion, this statement was truly revealing and enlightening, not on taxes but on the PSD and its positioning. Otherwise, let us see: the reduction of the special payment on account, which was won by a proposal from the CFP, has benefited more than 100 000 companies. The state spill, which is so outraged by the PSD, has increased taxes to 70 companies, which have more than EUR 35 million of profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u52	On what scale?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u53	This is what the PSD calls 'generality'! Love is such by the great economic groups that have no eyes for anyone else! When your generality is the 70 largest companies, we're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]] We prefer to propose solutions to benefit, yes, the generality of the economic fabric of our country, its vast majority, which are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, we ask the Government, in particular, what is the situation in the process of termination of the special payment account, which has been approved, and is in force, by the State Budget Act for 2017, on a proposal from the CFP, Article 197. o No 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u54	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u55	We do not talk about disincentive to special payment on account ( PEC ), we talk about extinction of the PEC until 2019. Therefore, it is necessary to know on which foot the processes of creating the technical-economic coefficients, which allow to replace and extinguish this regime widely considered as something that must disappear, except for the PSD and the CDS which, as a government, did not allow this to happen. What is the situation with regard to the implementation and compliance of Articles 291. o and 241. that of the State budget, as regards the termination of the legal review of accounts to small businesses, as proposed by the CFP? This is a measure that greatly benefits those who today are faced with expenditure, with cost of contexts and with bureaucracy that is perfectly indispensable and that the CFP proposed that they be extinct, that the State Budget Act so approved and that it is only lacking to carry out. What is the situation, Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the question of value added tax (VAT) for restoration, in particular in the aspects which have yet to be achieved and which has to do with beverages in particular? These are crucial elements for the lives of thousands and thousands of small businesses in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u56	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u57	Mr President, the CDS chose to hide by focusing the debate on an asset revaluation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u58	Hide? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u59	Regardless of its consequences, there is a problem in its reasoning : the asset revaluation process does not impact the 2017 taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u60	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u61	This means that the shameful effective rate that EDP pays, both at international and national level, does not have to do with the revaluation of assets, has to do with the IRC rules that were approved when in this case the Member was part of a government, swornly with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u63	at that time, the government made a reform of the IRC that favored it, which allowed tax planning and that large companies pay less taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u64	Exactly! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u65	The gentlemen. Members are concerned about the tax and the effective rate of EDP because it gives you good work now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u66	I'm not worried about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u67	... but EDP is not the only company with embarrassing effective rates, because they have the opportunity to make fiscal planning.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u68	I'm not worried about that. I'm worried about what all companies pay for!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u69	What the ladies are talking about. Members call « fiscal competitiveness » is not much different from what the Netherlands calls « fiscal competitiveness ». Don't hide behind words, it's tax planning that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u70	You still don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u71	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u72	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to change the rules of fiscal planning? Let's do it! Let's tighten the exemption scheme! We're going to approve that rate of profits and electrical revenues! Let's tighten the safeguard clauses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u73	Five more points on the fee pays all that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u74	You really have to finish, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u75	I will finish now, Mr President. All these measures imply undoing laws that were made by the PSD and the CDS,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u76	...but the Left Block is available to do them, of course, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u77	You still haven't noticed that that's no use!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u78	You have the floor Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is important to stress that the Government is working, on the one hand, to simplify the declarative obligations of undertakings, whatever they are, by eliminating redundant reporting obligations, and on the other hand, so that next year there is a fiscal timetable that is more adapted to the desirable simplification for the life of companies. in this sense, we are working with the Order of Certified Accountants ( OCC ), but also with this majority so that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u80	Mr. Secretary of State, he has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u81	... with regard to simplified IRC, we can have a simplified IRC which is effectively more business-friendly from 1 January 2019 onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u82	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u83	Allow me, Mr President, to conclude with the following: Members would like to question a specific situation, but I ask you that the government cannot, or should, at least tow newspaper news, comment on the specific tax situation of any taxpayer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u84	I ask you to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u85	And allow me, Mr President, to recall that the 2017 financial year is the only subject of the declaration in May and that there will only be fiscal results from that point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u86	To conclude the debate, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There are three facts that we can all withdraw at the end of this debate. First, if we evaluate what are the effective taxes paid by the Portuguese, we know that they are high. A person with 1500 € gross income pays a rate of about 9 %. Large companies pay effective rates of approximately 25 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u88	How much? Do you mind repeating?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u89	What about the banks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u90	... and one company paid an effective rate of 0, 7 %. This is the first fact. Secondly, measures were taken during the previous government by creating additional rates on specific sectors, such as the energy sector, the bank, the pharmaceutical sector, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u91	Some of these companies have never paid a tow!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u92	In front of this government, what happened? Not only have they created a scheme that has given tax credit to large companies, and in particular to this one, as with this government, the rate on the energy sector has ceased to be paid... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u93	... by this company in particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u95	Answer there: why is the state not going to the spill?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u96	Thirdly, in the face of this particular problem, what have we seen? They put their heads in the sand! They didn't talk! They have not shown a willingness to fight this fiscal iniquity. Why? Because your behavior, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one name: tax hypocrisy, which is what you have shown here. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u97	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the debate on equity and competitiveness in corporate taxation. We will initiate the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1267 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Geostrategic position of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ), 1316 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the geostrategic importance of the Azores ( PS ), 1390 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Regional Government of the Azores, take the necessary measures for a political link that enhances the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of that Autonomous Region ( CDS-PP ), 1415 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the strategic enhancement of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ) and 1423 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the appreciation of the geostrategic importance of the Madeira archipelago ( PS ). Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u98	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the PSD, once again, is a pioneer in the Assembly of the Republic on a topic that matters a great deal to the Azores: the geostrategic and geopolitical position. The Atlantic Geocentrality of the Azores creates opportunities in the field of various themes that can greatly contribute to the progress of the region and Portugal by creating jobs and wealth. Today we propose an institutional link to enhance geography policy, placing it on a long-term priority for Portugal. We propose an articulation that is prospective and that does not stop in time. We want negotiator knowledge to be produced, capable of assessing where we are going and where we are going or, better, able to identify predictability of opportunities. It is a manifest benefit for the Government to act institutionally, politically and legally in order to constantly know the advantages and challenges of the geostrategic and geopolitical position of the Azores, an essential knowledge to position the region and Portugal within the framework of European and world investment, as no country or region advances without knowledge. But we are also convinced that, apart from the evidence of the circumstances and the opportunities of the hour, we will have to be able to act locally in the construction of a strategic regional concept that provides a line of guidance. in this sense, we also consider it essential that the right of the autonomous regions to participate in the negotiations of international treaties and agreements that concern them, as well as their resulting benefits, be strengthened in a forthcoming constitutional review. Our geographical position must constitute autonomous affirmation in the European and international context, which is always a cause for pride in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u99	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to discuss the strengthening of the geostrategic and geopolitical position of the Azores and Madeira. I can't agree anymore. But allow me, because it is necessary, to ask: is the situation today completely different from what we have been living three years ago? Three years ago, what was the national strategy for scientific diplomacy in the autonomous regions? None! Three years ago, what was the national strategy for space in autonomous regions? None! Three years ago, what was the Government of the Republic of then doing about the national strategy for port competitiveness in the autonomous regions or the defence of security in the Atlantic? Nothing! Today we are discussing the strengthening of the geostrategic position of the Azores and Madeira and, strengthening, I can no longer agree, but I also reaffirm that the situation has changed, it has changed a lot with this Government of the Republic. It has changed, above all, because this government has answered a fundamental question: what can we do with these valuable assets representing the Azores and Madeira? The government responded in multiple dimensions: implementing policies with vision oriented towards the future, in conjunction with regional governments, seeking to ensure the protagonistship of the Azores and Madeira in national strategic projects, thus contributing to the affirmation of Portugal in the world. He responded in the area of science and technology, with the creation of the Atlantic International Research Centre, focused on space, atmosphere, oceans, climate, energy and data science in the Atlantic and, together with this Centre, the creation of the Atlantic Observatory. He also responded with the new strategy for space, betting on the creation of a space port open to all international actors and operators. But we are also talking about port competitiveness in the autonomous regions. For the first time, it is with this government that the ports of autonomous regions appear in a national port strategy. Yes, it was with this government, because with the PSD/CDS government national ports did not exist in the national strategy. It is also with this PS government that we value the geostrategic position, recognizing the contribution of our regions to the extinction of the Portuguese continental shelf and the bet on the competitiveness of ports with the supply of LNG ( liquified naturalgas ). But we also wagered in the field of defence and Atlantic security with the creation of the Atlantic Defense Centre and, in the field of renewable energy, with, for example, the project to expand the hydroelectric use of Calheta. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary today to prove to you the value of our geostrategic and geopolitical position. This government has already demonstrated it with the bet on all these projects. We are increasingly witnessing the integration of the potential of our regions into national strategic projects. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Parliament we have taken a giant step. The autonomous regions, which do not exist in foreign policy, or, in the case of the Azores, with a mere role in a defence agreement with the United States of America, have become central to the major strategic areas of Portugal. But if it is true that there is a great evolution in this appreciation, it is also true that we must continue to create opportunities that will suit and strengthen the capacities of each autonomous region, extending to other areas, such as tourism promotion, betting on the internationalisation of our companies and, above all, empower the Azores and Madeira in the external projection of Portugal. The Atlantic centrality has not been lost but, rather, has been extensively renewed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u101	Mr João Almeida has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we have here today on the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of the Azores and Madeira is, in itself, a very relevant discussion to discuss also what is the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of Portugal. This is because, indisputably, the continental reality of the country is limited, so without its Atlantic projection in the Azores and Madeira, it would be totally different from what it is. Today, probably, the most visible fact of this relevance is the project of the extension of the continental platform. The opening that allows the existence of the Azores and Madeira in national logic is this projection of a country that, territorially, on the continent, is medium, but that, with its Atlantic projection through the Azores and Madeira, is great in its size and is great in its importance. It should therefore be recognised to the Azores and Madeira not only that contribution but also the need to have a counterpart, from the geopolitical and geostrategic point of view of the national options, which is a counterpart at the time. Indisputably, this constitutional regime, with the autonomy, brought to the Azores and Madeira not only a greater capacity to define their development projects but also the realization of this development. They may criticize options, they may disagree on paths, but it is indisputable that, over the past 40 years, the Azores and Madeira have been from the regions of the country that have become the most transformed and that have benefited most from the development of the country, not only from this constitutional regime but also through European integration, that these regions have benefited and have also contributed greatly, because the Azores and Madeira project not only the national reality but also European reality. It is true that, often with regard to the Azores, we have discussed the defence and security dimension of the importance of the Autonomous Region of the Azores within NATO. But there is a reality, far beyond the one that has to do with the defense, which matters to resolve. The Azores have a rich and unexplored heritage at the level of their natural marine resources and, finally, it is becoming important, from a scientific point of view, to this wealth. And it is essential that the country realizes that it has in the Azores what it does not have in any other region of the country and that it therefore has to value and take this as a priority, also supporting all those that are relevant activities — agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, meteorology and air control — and realizing that remarkable projects such as those in the Faial, the Observatory of the Atlantic, or those that exist in Santa Maria, the aeronautical and aerospace cluster, are national projects and not only regional projects. Looking at Madeira, we should also realize, because we do not have complexities with this, the importance of Madeira's economic dynamics and the leadership that Madeira has, for example, in what is the national tourist reality. We must also realize the importance that Madeira has in the projection of Portugal in the world through its diaspora and the communities that are scattered around the world. We must also realize the importance that Madeira has in economic competitiveness through the International Centre for Business of Madeira (CINM), which is, yes, an important factor in economic competitiveness not only in the region but throughout the country and which must be assumed as such. in these projects, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have discussed is not the importance that we recognise in Madeira and the Azores, the consequence that we have managed to do so, the fact that, from a national point of view, the Government of the Republic does not look at Madeira and the Azores on the basis of those who govern each region, is that the Government of the Republic does not look at Madeira and the Azores on the basis of political timetables, it is the Government of the Republic to realize that strategic cooperation is the best way to ensure that these two regions continue to develop and develop further and that the country also benefits. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u103	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr John Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bring us here the PSD, PS and CDS resolution projects that emphasize the focus in strengthening the geostrategic and geopolitical position of the Azores and Madeira. For the Azores, in fact, this archipelago has long assumed a very important centrality in the Atlantic : beyond the existence of various economic activities (fishing, agriculture, tourism, etc. ) , others, certainly, such as oceanographic and meteorological research, innovation and scientific and technological research are important. To demonstrate the strategic and geopolitical importance of the Azores, we have, for example, the use of the Lajes Base by the American Air Force, from 1945 onwards, through various agreements. In turn, the French, also through an agreement signed with the Salazarist Government in 1964, created the French Flower Base in the Azores for missile research. However, the importance of these bases is linked to the influence of the Azores on the control of the Atlantic and, in recent years, in a very recent past, has served as a toy in the context of NATO’s performance in the context of the Cold War. The various governments have been subservient to the demands of the United States of America and NATO, which has been used as a weapon of aggression to spread war among peoples—see Libya, Iraq or Afghanistan. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, who have suffered from the geostrategic position of the Azores are their populations, who have been victims of this same position. As is known in 2012, the US Government has decided to reduce the number of military elements, and still today no concrete steps have been taken within the framework of the PRIIT ( Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan ). But, far more serious, it is the tragedy that is currently being witnessed, which is the environmental footprint left by American troops and for which everyone is responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u106	Also recently, in the social communication, a scientific research entitled: Pollution in the Azores : Reports confirm heavy metals and risk of cancer. This is the response given to the geostrategic position of the Azores. For this, you will not be able to count on the Left Block. The Left Block defends scientific research and technological innovation, but not with these costs, because it is the people who are suffering. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u107	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u108	Mr. President and Mr. Members: We believe that the discussion about the potential that may arise from the strategic positioning of autonomous regions, both the Azores and Madeira, is a relevant issue. We have often discussed, and precisely in this House, the problem of the costs of insularity and how we can help to meet these costs. Today we are discussing a very different issue, which is the potential that may arise in this case from the situation of insularity and how it is possible to benefit from something with this, from the interest of the autonomous regions, from the interest of their populations, but also from the interests of the country as a whole, nationally. That is why this is a relevant discussion. We greatly appreciate the constitutional framework of autonomy of the autonomous regions. We have the criticisms, which are known over the years for regional governance in both regions, both in the Azores and in Madeira. Obviously, there has been great convergence in many areas and there have been other differences that are natural. But we believe that the autonomy of the autonomous regions, as enshrined in the Constitution and in their political and administrative statutes, is an enormous value for the development of the regions and for the balanced development of our country. And after the constitutional review of 2004, which was very significant in this respect and which, with regard to the deepening of regional autonomy, had the support of the CFP, we believe that it is not justified here that there are still potentials to be developed within the framework of this constitutional review, so the question to be put now is not the need for further constitutional revisions of this matter. We believe that there are valid proposals contained in the draft resolutions, but there is a difference that we have and will have consequences for our vote. In our view, what needs to be emphasized here is the potential that can be withdrawn from the point of view of regional and national development and that do not depend on decisions other than that. And here, in fact, is the problem of NATO, that is to say, the problem of dependence that has been created in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and, in particular, on the third island with regard to decisions that transcend national decision-making capacity and that have to do with decisions taken by the United States of America or NATO which have not been positive for the development of the region and which have consequences that we have faced and that we have been discussing, consequences that arise, in fact, from decisions which are strange to us and which, in some cases, harm us. So we think that both things should be dissociated. And so we stand out from the proposals put forward here because they are going to depend on the development of the region of membership to international organisations and, in particular, on the fact that Portugal belongs to NATO. We believe that this bond of dependence has been harmful either for Portugal or specifically for the Autonomous Region of the Azores. in which, in the vote on these draft resolutions, to be held shortly here in the plenary, we will request that the points that deserve our disagreement be removed so that we can vote favourably on very important issues that are proposed by both the PS and the PS, regarding the enhancement of the potentials of the regions, excluding, from our point of view, what may lead not to development but to the creation of dependency ties that are detrimental to national and regional interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u109	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The geo-strategic position of Portuguese archipelagos is obviously important, but the first ones responsible for valuing this position are the regional government bodies themselves. Now, going to Madeira, what is the great strategic option of this regional government, chaired by Miguel Albuquerque, at which time the main figures of the State, i.e. the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister? It was the change of the airport's name! This is the moment that summarizes the strategic vision of the PSD / Madeira and its vision for the future of the region. Another point that is focused on this draft resolution is science and technology. However, this is not even a matter of specific interest to the status of autonomy, although it is the only sector of greater dynamism, with the greatest potential for economic growth at international level. Another strategic factor is transport, maritime and air transport. However, the strategy for these areas is subject to the particular interests of the economic group known as the « owner of Madeira ». There was a work in the new quay that began to limit the port's operationality. We see cruise tourism growing around us, in the Canary Islands, in the Azores and in the port of Lisbon, but, in Madeira, it is stagnant because of this sdruxula work. The railway connection was broken down by Madeira so as not to harm the interests of such an economic group. The solutions to minimize the consequences of the airport's non-operational days, due to meteorology, all of them, in the interests of this economic group, which has the monopoly of inter-rail maritime connection. The integrated management of the two airports could reduce the consequences of inoperability, but this solution does not advance because it undermines the same interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u111	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u112	Therefore, this draft resolution eventually translates the regional recognition of the PSD's inability, which once again refers the problem to the Republic. Since you have no strategic vision, ask the Government of the Republic to supply this need, this insufficiency. And the PSD seems to continue in self-flashing, after the debate, held last week, about the job, in which it had a lot of guilt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u113	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u114	Now, once again, on his own initiative, to expose his fragility and contradictions here in this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u115	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about geopolitics, geostrategy or geoeconomics we must always bear in mind that Portugal is not just a European country (if any, peripheral). Portugal is a Euro-Atlantic country, then a central country. This centrality is also due, and much, to the archipelago of Madeira, an archipelago next to the African continent, an archipelago facing the Americas, a European archipelago that is part of Macaronesia together with the Azores, the Canary Islands and Cape Verde. A region that has done much to take advantage of this Atlantic centrality is precisely Madeira. Madeira has the third largest register of ships in Europe. Madeira has a credible and fiscally competitive international business centre to centralize, precisely, business between the Atlantic continents. Madeira has highly trained marine research centres and also has excellent Atlantic studies centers. Madeira invests in aquaculture as no other region in Portugal. Madeira has one of the most dynamic cruise ports in Europe. It is for all this that any bet from Portugal on geopolitics must pass and take advantage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. The Government of the Republic must wager much more in the Atlantic policy of the country and the Atlantic Ocean may in fact also be the ocean of the 21st century. The Government of the Republic should therefore consult with the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira on the creation of a clear Atlantic strategy where the entire maritime and continental territory of the country emerges as an authentic hub in relations between Europe, Africa and the Americas. With the project to expand the Portuguese maritime territory — the continental shelf — there is much to do, and to do quickly, whether in matters of safety or economic exploitation of this vast maritime territory. I will finish, Mr President, by saying that Portugal is a sea country and has always been great when it has been serious in the sea and has had a national maritime strategy. It's time to get her back! For this, we need to have a strategy of consultation with the Atlantic archipelagos, in this case, with Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u117	We moved on to the third point of the agenda, with the appreciation of Bill No. 759 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — recovers for the public domain the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the preparation of the universal telecommunications service ( second amendment to the basic telecommunications law, Law No 91 / 97 of 1 August ) ( BE), generally together with draft resolutions 1411 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By defending the national interest and control of Portugal Telecom ( Os Verdes) and 1022 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — To halt the liquidation of PT, to defend workers and the national interest ( CFP ). To begin with this point, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate which the Left Block brings to Parliament today, when presenting this proposal to rescue for the public sphere the basic network of Portugal Telecom ( PT ), is a debate on a balance sheet and a choice. It was more than two decades ago that Cavaco Silva took the first step towards the privatization of telecommunications in Portugal, first creating Portugal Telecom, SA, and then starting the first phase of privatization of the company. The path that followed from there is known: government after government, in governments of variable geometry, PS, PSD and CDS were programming the privatization of PT. The company was progressively transferred from the public sphere to the private sphere, until in 2011 the government of the troika protetorate determined the elimination of the gold share that the State still held, placing PT, exclusively, in the hands of privates. And here we are, 24 years later, with an PT that virtually disappeared as a strategic company to give rise to an integral subsidiary of the Franco-Israeli Altice group. The consequences are in sight. With regard to emergency networks and civil protection, the tragic fires of last year showed that the various communication systems that supported PT/Altice failed for long periods. These failures, which were repeated in June and October, prove that they are not only localized failures but, rather, an extensive blackout, in crucial periods of time, of a whole network covering entire regions of the centre and the interior of the country. But if Altice failed on the emergency and rescue network and fixed telecommunications networks, it also failed on terrestrial digital television ( TDT ). And why? For the only reason that there is a conflict of interest, identified by ANACOM itself ( National Communications Authority ) : Altice is a holder of the basic network that guarantees the broadcast of TDT and at the same time a holder of the main subscription television operator which includes TDT. And as if it wasn't enough to buy VAT in a process that, if it were to be carried out, would mean an unacceptable concentration in Portuguese social communication that would put the pluralism of information and content at risk in the media. Let us be clear: what Altice does by stopping the development of TDT to sell MEO packages is unworthy and is a face-to-face to the state and the obligation of all of us to guarantee the conditions for the provision of public radio and television services. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the balance sheet of decades and half of failures, today we also need to talk about choices and there are four choices this Parliament has to make. First: either this Parliament leaves the infrastructure of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in the hands of a company which has given evidence of successive incompetences or, on the contrary, wants to take the responsible solution to rescue that network to the State and thus ensure the safety, emergency and relief of our populations? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly: will this Parliament close its eyes to the conflict of interests that causes Altice to cross the development of terrestrial digital television to sell MEO packages or, on the contrary, will it assume the responsibility of ensuring the public service of TDT, essential for populations who need the most, especially, of the increasingly abandoned interior? Thirdly: will this Parliament accept the argument used by the Altice administration which favours the exclusion of thousands of poorer and older families, according to which there are fewer Portuguese people using the fixed telephone or, on the contrary, will find answers to this policy that has transformed Portugal into one of the countries of the European Union where communications are more expensive? Fourth: will this Parliament finally allow a company such as Altice to question the need to extend a universal public telecommunications service or, on the contrary, will it take the courageous choice to rescue the State what must be a real basic network of Portugal Telecom?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u119	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u120	For our part, we do not hesitate for one minute in answering each of these questions. The Members of Parliament and the Members of the Left Block were elected to defend the interests of the people, even if this disturbs the interests of the Altice. That is our responsibility and, therefore, we are now bringing to this Parliament the fair and sensible choice to rescue the basic network of Portugal Telecom for the sphere of the State, from which it should never have left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u121	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By completely ignoring the public interest and faithfully following the doctrine of « at least state, better », the PSD / Cavaco Silva government initiated the privatisation process of one of the largest Portuguese companies, Portugal Telecom. With this privatisation, the State lost control of PT, in addition to tax revenues and dividends. It is recalled that since 2000 PT has distributed around EUR 15 billion by its shareholders. As predicted, this privatization, like so many others, has only benefited the large economic and financial groups, which have become owned by strategic and lucrative sectors, weakening the power of the State and its own autonomy vis-à-vis some decision-making centres that leave the country, as well as billions of euros of dividends that follow the same destination. More: with the sale of PT to Altice — a financial fund and, as such, speculative that seeks the greatest profit in the smallest amount of time — there is a process of dismantling and destruction of PT, having already come to the public the intention of Altice to sell, in a fractional manner, many assets of the company, such as communications towers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u124	However, this French multinational has had a very poor behaviour with regard to workers' rights, promoting psychological terrorism, professional devaluations, harassment practices, shift of workers to phantom units without assignment of functions, with the clear purpose of forcing them to terminate their contracts. On the other hand, the service provided has fallen and prices have increased substantially. In other words, the 23 years of privatization of PT have clearly demonstrated the need for public control of this strategic company for the country, from the outset, for failure to meet the obligations of service and public interest, not only at the level of fixed and mobile communications themselves but, above all, with regard to its infrastructure. Although PT is not today the operator responsible for the universal service of the fixed network, the fires that took place in 2017 highlighted the weaknesses of the network of telecommunications infrastructures held by Altice and showed not only the de-investment in low density areas such as disrespect for customers themselves who had been several months without any type of telecommunications, fixed or mobile, due to the delay in the replacement of the infrastructures. Thus, considering that PT is a strategic enterprise for the country, which is urgently preventing the destruction of a company with its size, that it is imperative to secure thousands of jobs and that it is necessary to put a brake on workers' rights and pre-reformed; whereas today the centre of decision of this strategic company is not in our country, that it is absolutely necessary to prevent the mega-Romanian claim of social communication by Altice, that it is necessary to seek ways to ensure that PT is a large company of national capital under public control — the only way, moreover, to ensure that the telecommunications sector is at the service of the development of the country and of the interest of Portuguese — in view of all this, the Greens consider that the Government must prevent the destruction of Portugal Telecom and that it has the duty to safeguard the rights of workers, as well as to guarantee the universal public service at the level of the fixed network and communication, which, in fact, is only objectively viable if the Member State of Portugal is to integrate the telecom. It is precisely what is intended with this legislative initiative that The Greens today present for discussion: the reversal of the privatization of PT, so that their ownership and management return to the sphere of the State. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u125	I would like to thank the honourable Member for his strict compliance with the intervention time. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word goes to the workers of PT, from the older to the younger, from those on the ground to those who are without assigned tasks, from those who are in precarious call centers to those who have worked their entire lives in the company, since the time of the CTT / TLP. It was they who made PT a fundamental pillar for the development of our country, they were and are on the front line of the struggle to defend the company, it is with them that we are, side by side, and from here we greet. [[PCP applause.]] It is with the strength of the workers that the CFP presented this legislative initiative, after listening to the thousands that last July, from Picoas to São Bento, told us that PT had to return to the state to stop its liquidation, defend workers and national interest. The path of PT is elucidative of the process of destruction of a large national company. Since 2000, the company has delivered nearly EUR 15 billion to its shareholders. It was these interests linked to the economic groups and to the financial capital that gained from privatization. On the other hand the State lost the strategic command of PT, the revenue of dividends and significant tax revenues. PT was and is understood by the economic groups, in particular now the Altice Group, in the perspective of dismantling and selling parts to extract and expatriate profits, dividends and fundamental resources. Today it was known the decision of the European Altice to alienate 3000 communications towers in Portugal because they consider that they have no strategic interest in the objectives of multinationals. This is the policy that is being imposed on the company. For months, the CFP was alone reporting the situation that still occurs with the communications in the fire-affected areas. We witnessed an incredible denial of the Altice, saying that the PCP lied and that the links were restored. Yesterday, ANACOM confirmed that at least 4600 families continue without the telecoms returned in these areas, almost all due to the responsibility of the Altice, whose administration continues to not recognize the serious problems it has caused. The CFP has already called on the Commission to demand immediate action. The TDT also highlighted very serious problems that confirmed the warnings that the PCP made for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u128	It is essential to remove consequences from successive studies, debates and diagnoses already carried out in this area. We defend the extension and strengthening of the TDT network, with the universality of access, the improvement of supply, the availability of high-definition emissions and the increase of open-label channels of the public television service. We defend a breach with the guidelines and interests that have dominated the performance of the Altice. The country cannot accept the disintegration of strategic enterprises fundamental to the economy, it must first fight for the defence of these companies and for their integrity, modernization and development at the service of the national interest, which goes hand in hand with its reversal into the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u130	PT and its workers are part of the solution rather than the problem. The problem is the submission of this strategic company to the interests of large economic groups, such as Altice. That is the point of our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u131	Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are debates that, because of their public relevance, will end up coming to the parliamentary debate. Today is one of those days, which obliges us to take a look back on the role and interests of the State in the economy and to make a reading not necessarily optimistic and benevolent of what has happened in the telecommunications sector in recent years. The telecommunications sector cannot be exhausted from market issues and options for the provision of goods and services. This is a universe in which there are issues of sovereignty, national security and territorial cohesion taxes. That is why the Socialist Party cannot stop looking at Portugal Telecom and finding many strategic decisions that served as an example of what must not be done in the future. Yes, because if the PSD government and the CDS had not had the vertigo to sell everything that was public sector business and strategic stakes, as was the case in 2011 when it alienated the gold share of PT, which became a sole and exclusively private company today, certainly we would not have this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u134	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Parliament, to restore to the public the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the provision of the universal telecommunications service can, in thesis, be an interesting idea because it makes us believe that public obligations would no longer be assumed by the private sector to be delivered to the State. This vision, almost romantic, shocks, however, with reality, because things are not so well. On the proposal from the Left Block there are some notes that are of interest to mention. First of all, a note on the value that we attributed to the rule of law, of course this proposal would imply expropriation for fair value and the affirmation of non-respect for investment and international investors, and thus the violation of the principles on which our European participation is based. The Left Block intends to withdraw from PT / Altice obligations today that you will have to deliver to this or other operators tomorrow. What the Block really wants is to zero the concession timer. However, we understand and accompany the apprehension of the Block, the CFP and the Greens in relation to workers and their jobs. Moreover, the Government, through Mr. Prime Minister, has already had the opportunity to publicly and in this Chamber to express a position on possible redundancies in PT / Altice, stating that it would never be given authorization for that purpose. In view of the above, it is the Socialist Party's understanding that none of the initiatives makes sense in today's debate. It would have made sense that in 2011 if it had prevented the alienation of the last 500 actions that would guarantee the strategic veto, it would have made sense if TDT had developed with another responsibility and with other partners; it would have made sense that the country had planned an accelerated technological evolution on the safety networks. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the Government has said, it is up to the regulator to closely monitor the activities of these companies so that nothing — but even strictly nothing — will impede the scrupulously respect for public duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u135	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u136	I'm done now, Mr. President. It makes sense to have a permanent reading of contracts and concessions, promoting internal and external audits whenever necessary; it makes sense to identify the obligations placed on the modernisation of networks; what makes no sense is that one looks at a country like a blank sheet, in which everything can be rewritten. We are for good public management, but always added to the duties of consistency and compliance with the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u137	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These initiatives propose the amendment of the Telecommunications Bases Act, determining the inclusion in the public domain of the State of the basic telecommunications network and of the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, the SIRESP, and also the recovery by the State of the provision of a universal public telecommunications service through a public operator. They intend to launch the public rescue of the basic telecommunications network, held today by PT / Altice, of the ownership and management of emergency and safety and civil protection networks and also of the broadcasting network of audiovisual signal, radio and television. It is not new to us the resistance that the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens have to the model that is based on the private initiative and on the free movement of goods and capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u139	And why do you think it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u140	With these diplomas, we seem to have returned to the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course), to the nationalizations in which everything has to belong to the State and in which, as a rule, everything that is of the State works well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u141	What is good is the "law of the jungle"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u142	Is it? But the state has failed all over the line, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to fires, it was not a question of operators, it was a question of the State, which failed to safeguard its populations, it was not a matter of failure of the operators, it was the State that did not ensure the protection of the lives of its populations. [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] What they want is to hide the failure of the State in defending the Portuguese populations. It was not the operators who failed, but it is therefore the State that fails across the line. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the retrograde left newspaper, which refuses to look at reality and which usually masks the facts, so it is appropriate for you to bring questions to hide what happened in the fires. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] But these diplomas also reveal an irresponsible left, which does not know how much it would cost the nationalization of PT, what would cost the State budget, what would cost the public record, what would be the impact on the Budget. He does not know, as always, because to the left, the State budget always has money for everything, but in the end, as a consequence, it is the Portuguese who pay the bill of this irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u144	Are you accounting for people's lives? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what do the Government and the Socialist Party say on this issue? We know that the Government of Management is supported by anti-troika, anti-NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and anti-euro parties. We know that the Socialist Party has already taken over the reversals. Will the Socialist Party become a part of nationalization? We all remember what the Socialist Party wanted to do with PT : I wanted to use it to buy TVI.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u146	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u147	We all remember what the Socialist Party did with PT, under the management of Eng.o Socrates, and the ruinous business. We all remember that management. Mrs. Members, the PSD does not embark on adventureirisms or revolutionary drifts. There are mechanisms to monitor compliance with the contract to grant the public telecommunications service and to assess the quality of the services provided by companies. Let us make the regulator strong, because the regulator has to act, giving it the human and technical means. That is the question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and that is what the government has to do: equip the regulator with technical and human competences. This analysis is done and, if non-compliances are found, then the penalties provided for in the law are carried out. No more demagogy and irresponsible acts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u148	What a truly miserable intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u149	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when I looked at this draft law of the Block of Left, which says that « recovers for the public domain the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the provision of the universal telecommunications service » and that, in its text, even says that this is the result of the « capital looting project and public resources», I thought: « Well, here is the Block, in its purest version, against the capital. Do not keep on seeking. ” But then, fortunately, we had the opportunity to attend today's first debate, which proved that, after all, the Bloc is the right friend for the uncertain hours of the big capital, because it was proven to be at the origin of the large tax bubbles, namely that of EDP. Therefore, this is no longer a serious debate and it has become an accounting debate. If that is not the case, then is the Block actually concerned about the provision of the universal service of the fixed network? Well, he doesn't say anything about it, practically. But then he should say, 'The fixed network has these problems and it is indeed our service provider' — and, if it is us who provides the service, he should know that it is WE and that it is the other operators all and that today a citizen is free to buy fixed network, television and voice packages, so the market works, even for the benefit of the consumer, in price and in quality. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] He said: 'Well, there is a problem with TDT.' The PCP went further, at least said what it wanted from TDT : either HD channels (high definition), or more channels, or changing the multichannel, i.e., made plans to improve TDT. But perhaps the error is in origin, because, by placing on the contract that the coverage is 85 %, it is enough to meet on the coast and that 85 % band is completed, which leaves all the interior to be discovered. But the gentlemen. Members do not say: "The contract is changed, the rules are changed and we will invest in the TDT". They don't say anything about it, as they don't say about fixed posts either — they forgot! The contract refers to a post for parish, which I believe is being fulfilled by the Altice. So, what are you gentlemen doing? In fact, also Mr. Hugo Pires did not say clearly what the PS was going to do, because the PS has to say whether he is on the left side of the radical or whether he is going to vote against. In other words, in addition to everything that was said, he did some kind of Urbi et Orbi Mass saying that we just have to be careful. Mr. Deputies, I know it makes it possible for the Bloc to ban the government, but the culprit for what happened in the fires and for the lack of protection of people and goods has a name: Socialist Party, Left Block and PCP. [[Protests from PS, BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u151	Not even in arithmetic, you guys are right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u152	Failures to comply with the Altice contract have a name, because, Mr. Members, it is up to the government to control the SIRESP, it is the government to control the quality and performance of the service on a regular basis, it is the government to control the TDT, it is the government to control the fixed network service. That is, if we have an incompetent government to control the contracts you sign, is it possible to believe that we have a government capable of managing these matters itself? No, and you know you don't. You also know, and well, because you are still on the right side of history, that the introduction of capital and innovation is very useful for smart cities, it is very useful for the lives of Portuguese and business, and it is even very useful for the life of the Block, which uses profusively the new technologies and innovations of 4G and 3G. But, let us be clear, the Socialist Party has once and for all to decide which side it is on: whether it is on the side of the modern economy or whether it is on the side of the retrograde economy, and is also sponsoring...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u153	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u154	... these opposition simulations, these ideological simulations, in which the Left Block, at 10 o'clock in the morning, is the right friend of the uncertain hours of the great capital and, around noon, hates the great capital. Make up your mind, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u155	To close this debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of PT was to have been transformed into a multi-bank box of the economic groups which took account, year after year, for the loot that, for years on end, has been made and the dismantling that was done by the successive management of the private administration and its shareholders. So, the ladies. Members no longer remember the extraordinary manager Zeinal Bava, who even decorated it? Oh, my God! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u157	Don't you remember the business of the Espírito Santo Group, Rioforte, and the one you've been putting your hand down over the years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u158	Is it Oi, in Brazil?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u159	So, do you not remember what today they call « hat in hand », international investors and the results obtained from the management of private shareholders and large economic groups in PT? Oh, my God! I would like to point out that it is unbelievable that the PSD, in relation to the populations affected by fires, which still continue without telephone links today, has passed from absolute silence to the direct and concrete excusability of PT, saying that the problem is the state, not the operators. It is a shame that the only word of the PSD has been to excuse PT and Altice, as has happened in this debate. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] While we are in this discussion, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, scandalous situations continue to occur, with workers without assigned functions, referred to in false transmissions of establishment, a situation of dismantling and destruction of a fundamental pillar of our economy. This must be stopped and this is also a responsibility of this House and of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u160	Mrs. Members, the voting period is postponed slightly after noon, so we enter the fourth item on the agenda, which is a joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 911/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort with the Spanish State to stop uranium exploration in Salamanca, at our border ( The Greens ), 1397 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all efforts and endeavours to ensure that the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is properly complied with to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects ( CDS-PP ), 1433/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government require the Spanish Government to conduct a cross-border environmental impact study on uranium mines in Retortillo-Saintidad ( PSD ), 1455/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, under the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects, adopt the necessary measures with the Spanish State with a view to suspending any final decision on the implementation of the project of the processed uranium factory and mining in Retortillo-Saintidad ( Salamanca ) ( PCP ), 1406 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures with the Spanish authorities to prevent the installation of the Retortillo-Saintity uranium mine ( BE ), 1409 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate efforts to stop the exploitation of uranium in Retortillo with the Kingdom of Spain and international bodies ( PAN) and 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure compliance with the Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain within the framework of the exploitation of uranium in Salamanca ( PS ). To open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the arrival of Spanish activists from the Stop Uranium environmental organization and tell them that we are together in this fight. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the project of installation of open-air uranium mines and radioactive waste storage in Retortillo, Salamanca, about 30 km from the Portuguese border, The Greens have been questioning and pressuring the Portuguese Government since 2013 in Parliament, in order to demand that the Government take a clear position in defence of the environment, our populations, our territory and our ecosystems. The impacts on Portugal of this nature are real: risk of radioactive contamination and heavy metals, through air and water contamination, particularly with profound impact on the Douro river basin. In view of this and bearing in mind that Portugal is well aware of the effects of the effects on the time of uranium exploration — see the case of Urgeiriza, which we have been accompanying here in Parliament — and its serious effect on public health. How can you, ladies and gentlemen? Members, do the successive governments of Portugal accept that there has been no cross-border environmental impact assessment on this project? How is it possible to accept that the 2008 Protocol of Action between the Portuguese State and the Spanish State has not been complied with? How can you accept that it has been issued environmental impact declaration without the participation of Portugal? And, moreover, did not the successive Portuguese governments receive, at least, due information on this matter? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are watching exactly the film of the Central Nuclear of Almaraz, exactly the same film! Since 2013 the Green Party has heard from the Portuguese governments that continue to await information from the Spanish Government. In 2018 we continue to hear the same. It can't be! That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom The Greens have taken the initiative in the Assembly of the Republic to present a draft resolution which states that, given that there has been no environmental impact assessment, the Government must take all the necessary steps with the Spanish Government to stop the uranium exploration in Retortillo, Salamanca, at our border, with significant environmental effects for our country. The other parliamentary groups agreed to follow this Greens initiative and also made contributions on this matter. What's important, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a decision by the Assembly of the Republic to stop this uranium exploitation with very strong impact on the populations, the territory and the ecosystems. [[Congratulations from The Greens and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u162	Before giving the floor to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, for an intervention, the Bureau shall ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are in various dialogues are in favour of being able to accommodate so that the session can be conducted with a little more tranquility. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last century, uranium exploration was done with great interest, either by Portugal or around the world, but having realized both environmental and, above all, public health implications, in good time Portugal ceased to explore this radioactive ore. This happened not without the fact that today, over two decades, there are numerous problems for the populations where this exploitation was carried out. Therefore, the possible exploitation of an open-air uranium mine near the Spanish border with Portugal will certainly have a potential impact in Portugal without doubt, i.e. will have a cross-border impact. This same confirms the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), i.e. by the direction of the winds and by the fact that the Yeltes River is a tributary of the Huebra River, which, in turn, is flowing from the Douro River, may also have impacts in Portugal. That's why, sirs. Members, there are a number of issues to be taken into account and that have led the CDS to present its draft resolution. On the one hand, Spain has not notified or involved Portugal in this process, i.e. it has not given any knowledge to our country. On the other hand, Spain also considered that it was not necessary to carry out cross-border consultations, justifying this decision by distance, but did not study, i.e., Spain did not comply with the protocol between the two governments on environmental assessments with cross-border impacts. That has been acknowledged by the Minister of the Environment recently, at a parliamentary hearing, saying that, and I quote, "has acted poorly and is not on our side" (...) — that is, it is on Spain's side, it is clear — and again, I quote, Mr Minister, that "all is taken from iron". In our understanding, all of this shows well the failure of Portuguese diplomacy to resolve cross-border issues with Spain, because it was not just this case. The recent situation in the construction of the nuclear waste store has already been mentioned here today, but also the inability to relaunch the debate of the review of the Albufeira Convention. Therefore, the CDS presents this draft resolution for the Government to make every effort with the Spanish Government to carry out a cross-border impact assessment, so that all relevant information related to this process is sent to the Portuguese authorities and the Portuguese Government is involved and informed at all stages of the licensing, if it is to be carried out, what we hope is not. We also recommend that the Government adopt a firm and determined position with the Spanish Government to ensure that the Protocol of Action is actually fulfilled. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u164	Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group has presented a draft resolution which we are debating today, recommending that the Government, together with the Spanish Government, require compliance with international standards and conventions, with a cross-border environmental impact study on these uranium mines in Retortillo. Of course, there is a data acquired in this debate: all parties want to block the construction of this mine without this study of the transboundary environmental impact being carried out. in this sense, I would like to leave two notes that we consider highlighting on this matter. First of all, after Almaraz, this is already the second example of environmental conflicts, a bad example, in which we conclude that the Spanish authorities do not comply with the international conventions which have been linked, such as the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the Espoo Convention or the Albueira Convention. This is therefore a recurrent behaviour that translates what is a standard and which leads us to say that we cannot rely on time, nor on the method, nor on the proposals that come to us from the Spanish side. We can no longer afford mere promises of meetings in forums or with the basic diplomatic channel. Our attitude must stop being that of mere words and we must move on to action. Our attitude must be translated into more demanding, more demanding, more supervisory and more firm actions, and we must, of course, help us with all the mechanisms available to us, without ever putting aside any complaints or complaints directed at international bodies, either under bilateral mechanisms or under the other European mechanisms available. We do not, of course, exclude the diplomatic route from this, and this has nothing to do with the lack of respect for the rules of a sovereign State, it is exactly the opposite, Mrs and Mrs. Members: when a sovereign State does not comply with international conventions, that, yes, violates our autonomy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u166	Secondly, a second note: APA explained very well in the information it sent that the Spanish Government reported that the Environmental Impact Declaration (IAA) has already existed since 2013 and that the authorisation of the exploitation grant was published in 2014, but this has nothing to do with the cross-border environmental impact study that we claim,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u168	... also provided for in the Protocol of Action, as mentioned above, signed between Portugal and Spain on the application of environmental assessments, plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects, as is the case. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only on the day this study is public can we get more rest. We are now told that the process is already at a stage where we cannot go back, that Portugal will only be able to participate in the procedures in question, and we ask: but is it now Spain that decides unilaterally whether or not it causes damage in Portugal? If the Portuguese State had been duly notified, within the time limits and under international law, we would, of course, have acted accordingly, and Portugal has nothing to do with the shortcomings that the Spanish authorities have committed, and that is why international bodies serve. Finally, the worst of the consequences: the irreversible damage of image that has already begun in my lands, which is already felt in the region. And, as if it were not enough, the City Hall of La Alameda de Gardón, a town located 3 or 4 km from the Vilar Formoso border, also published on the Retortillo mine an exceptional authorization for the use of agricultural soils for mining, for the expansion of this mine, which obviously leaves us even more concerned. He said a resident of Retortillo, who was born, lives and works in a nearby village: « If the farm is to be realized, the term that sustains it will be "go the cattle and the fertile land, our breadwine, the breadwine of many families". Thousands of trees are involved, farmers, livestock breeders, jobs, an authentic environmental attack. from the side of the border, in São Pedro de Rio Seco, in Vale da Mula, in Vilar Formoso, in the municipality of Almeida, or in Barca d’Alva, Almofala or Escarigo, because these rivers have all contacts with our river Douro and also with the river Águeda, it says there: « Who will come here with a uranium mine nearby? The winds come from Spain and the waters run down here. Here, in the territories of Riba Côa, with all this destroyed, what will remain us? We have already lost so much in these territories, do not let us also lose our health». Those who persist in those territories have much of their support in nature, agriculture, the forest, their endogenous values, the quality of life that translates into an absolute and essential strengthening factor of our local economy. Water and our rivers are an asset on which many human and animal lives depend and scandalously — I will already finish, Mr President — there has never been any health risk assessment in this process either. Those territories deserve much and much more and this will not abdicate the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u169	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before I begin my intervention, I will take this last sentence from Mrs. Angela Guerra and tell her - it is strange that this desire to affirm the national interest and the regional interest of the PSD has emerged so late... [[It's fake! It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u171	...and that for so long they have been back turned to the concerns of that region and its people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u172	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u173	Mrs. Members, the CFP mainly accompanies the Greens Greens Ecological Party, which manages to schedule these draft resolutions, and accompanies with its own project and its own recommendations. But, essentially, the fundamental question is that it has already been mentioned by the other parliamentary groups and refers to the need to safeguard both health and also the middle of the border regions of the district of Guarda, very close to Salamanca and Retortillo, where the Kingdom of Spain intends the deployment of a uranium mine and a processed uranium factory. Both are activities with very significant specific risks and which, from the point of view of caution, before implementation, are also very specific measures and, at a stage of possible deployment and operation, very large mitigation and containment measures, which necessarily have to involve the Portuguese State, not only in view of the geographical proximity—we are talking about a little more than 30 km between the mines, the factory and villages of the Portuguese territory—but because it is also necessary to ensure that this activity will have no impact or that the impacts can be mitigated. The Kingdom of Spain has once again failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaties, in the event that the Treaty of Action between States in respect of cross-border environmental impact assessments, and apparently the Government of the Portuguese Republic for a long time did not require any compliance with the Kingdom of Spain. Therefore, it is a matter of inverting this disapplicability of the Portuguese Republic to correct and ensure that no authorisation for the implantation of a uranium mine and a uranium factory processed in Retortillo, Salamanca, until the Protocol of Action between these two States is fully complied with. In view of the risks and the importance of them, there is the real risk of this exploitation being translated into the degradation of natural resources and it is absolutely unacceptable that those populations, already so punished by other issues and policies of successive governments, which have placed them in an increasingly fragile position, from an economic, productive, social and even political point of view, are now subject, by reason of the non-compliance of a protocol, to a degradation of their health. Therefore, what the CFP proposes is that the Assembly of the Republic decides to recommend to the Government that it ensure the scrupulous compliance of the protocol, that it ensure an environmental impact study and that, in the case of implementation of that work, all measures identified by the technicians are taken to prevent the Douro river basin from being used as a means of transporting radioactive particles and that the dominant wind regime does not mean that radão, a radioactive gas, can reach any population, being fully contained, and that all measures are taken to balance the economic interest of uranium exploration with, of course, the environmental interest and the health interest of the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u174	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - firstly, health to the alcaides and the population of Boada, Villavieja de Yeltes and Retortillo, who are with us, in the Assembly of the Republic, to attend this debate, whose subject is common to our two peoples and is of the greatest importance. Thank you very much for your coming and your presence. [[Congratulations on BE and PSD.]] Let me also address the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the Sovereign State of Spain, the Parliament and the Regional Government of Castela and León and also our neighbours of the Spanish border municipalities. Our peoples share the same geographical space, the same territories, the same « stone fence», as Saramago says in his admirable metaphor. The dictatorship wanted us from our backs, the dictatorship wanted there to be no relationship between us and wanted to stimulate mistrust between us. What I can say here, because I am a witness to this, like many of the Members and many of the Members. Members who have visited that region in Spain a few days ago are that there will be no interests of the international nuclear industry that call into question the desire for cooperation, of friendship, of border between our two peoples. We are in this struggle together, we are in this struggle because it is fair and because it has as its essential objective to defend our two peoples and not to place ourselves against each other. [[Congrats from BE Jorge Duarte Costa.]] What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? Members, it is that the Spanish State's behaviour profile on matters of this importance is becoming increasingly evident. As mentioned above, it happened with the nuclear waste store in Almaraz. The Spanish authorities did not want to provide the information they were required to the Portuguese authorities. Now, the situation tends to repeat itself. But it must be said that the Espoo Convention, established within the United Nations, on the assessment of environmental impacts in a cross-border context, obliges States to notify the other parties of all projects likely to have transboundary environmental impacts and establishes environmental impact assessment obligations at an early stage of planning, I repeat, at an early stage of planning. It's absolutely clear. The Albufeira Convention requires the exchange of information on activities likely to cause cross-border impacts. The Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain provides for procedures to be initiated leading to the cross-border environmental impact assessment study where there are initiatives likely to jeopardise the environment in one of the parties. It must be said that, if the Portuguese governments have not had the courage and frontality of doing since 2013, the set of draft resolutions presented today in the Assembly of the Republic allows the Portuguese Parliament to say with full border and clarity: the Spanish State is in breach of its obligations with the Portuguese State. This needs to be made clear and has consequences for the Portuguese Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u176	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u177	I will now finish, Mr President. from our point of view, it is necessary for the Portuguese authorities to conduct negotiations with the Spanish State to ensure that there is no installation of uranium mines in Retortillo-Saintity, because, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members, if there is an open-air mine facility, it will be the only one across Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u178	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u179	There is no method that prevents the radioactive activity from passing to the Douro River and passing through the area to our territory. Therefore, the objective must be to prevent uranium mines from occurring in Retortillo. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u180	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u181	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Spanish citizens here. Once again, we debate the unilateral, blind, and close to the arrogance of the Kingdom of Spain to expand the nuclear industry with the possible opening of an open-air uranium mine in Retortillo, Salamanca. Again, we have come to express to the Spanish Government respect for our national sovereignty and to request that international agreements be complied with, with cross-border environmental impact studies and that the Portuguese Government be consulted in due course in these projects. But on the part of Spain, once again, the Portuguese State's opinion was disregarded and the need to assess the environmental consequences of opening a uranium mine in both countries. More serious, the European Commission's agenda is to validate in Europe at any cost the so-called mineral and energy independence using nuclear energy. However, we must take a firm, much firmer position than we are in front of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. in this framework, we propose that the Portuguese Government use all diplomatic and legal records to ensure compliance with international agreements, in particular the Espoo Convention. Finally, and since we know the huge risk of nuclear in Europe, and more specifically in the Iberian Peninsula, we propose that at bilateral meetings with Spain the issue of nuclear should always be discussed. It is up to the Portuguese Government to impose the agenda for the end of the use of nuclear energy and not to expect the Kingdom of Spain to impose an environmental disaster on us. [[Congratulations from Mr. BE Pedro Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u182	I now give the floor to Mr Santinho Pacheco of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by warmly greeting our friends who have come from Spain and gratefully for their solidarity. Uranium extraction is a high-risk activity with a strong environmental impact and public health. The recent Portuguese parliamentary visit to the province of Salamanca, to the territories of Boada, Retortillo and Villavieja de Yeltes, very close to the border of Almeida and Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, showed the latent risk to the populations, to the economy and to the environment. in this remote and depopulated area of the Spanish territory, discreetly, since 2013, studies and preparatory work for the extraction of open-air uranium, with washing of millions of tons of land and the possible conduct of the waters used for the Douro river basin, through the Yeltes River. The Douro is a Portuguese asset that depends on the public supply of hundreds of thousands of people and with two world heritages from UNESCO : the Douro Vinhateiro and the Graves of Côa. Members of the Socialist Party do not accept that this process takes place without the involvement of Portugal. We believe that the Spanish Government will not escape its responsibilities and deny the joint assessment that an investment of this kind requires. In view of the above, the PS Parliamentary Group calls on the Government to carry out the following inquiries: it effectively ensures compliance with the Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain, requiring compliance with international standards; it shall take all appropriate measures to protect natural and environmental values within the national territory; it shall install, as soon as possible, a radiological control station in the Douro. The strip is not the door of the country's funds and much less a land of no one to the environmental smuggling. The ray is a mythical region, it is a clean and beautiful territory, black oak plateau, a grand monumentality, with fortresses and castles and its historic villages. The root of the Côa, of the rupestrian engravings, of the Port and Douro wine, of the international tourism that consolidates. The root of the depopulation and the adventurous spirit, the leap, was Europe before the rest of the country, because numbed Portugal feared to be proudly alone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The border of Vilar Formoso, saw the stopped growth and its ruined economy as a collateral damage to our Community membership. The root of the interior loses services, public and private, symbolized in the recent closure of the agency of the General Deposit Box of Almeida, which political sign that those lands are to close to the future. Only this one was missing on the line. From Spain, where the hidden ones, before, would win the bread, pretending the Civil Guard and the Prosecutor's Guard, now comes a silent threat that puts an end to the legitimate hope of a new time. If Retortillo is 40 km from Almeida, Alameda de Gardón is there in view of S. Pedro do Rio Seco, the native land of Eduardo Lourenço, this huge citizen of the world, European by culture, but reasoned by the heart. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Together we can make a line of opportunities, and a line of opportunities that means consequent neighborhood with Spain, respect for our values. The strip is a central element in a cross-border territory from Salamanca to Coimbra, based on the programmatic singularity of the pre-candidature of Guarda the European Capital of Culture 2027. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u184	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u185	I'm done now, Mr. President. As Eduardo Lourenço once wrote in politics, the symbolic dimension is always essential. A crisis in political terms is not unless there is a public perception. The President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, the autarchs and the peoples, the social communication and the country as a whole must demand and defend for all Europe to hear: we want the line of green, clean and living Spain! [[P.S.'s applause, Mr. Helena Roseta and Mr. João Soares applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u186	For a second intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I am pleased to note that Parliament is unanimous in its objective of achieving the cooperation protocols and that Portugal adopts a firm and determined position so that Spain does not once again ignore Portugal in these matters. Mrs. Members, the CDS believes that this debate should be held with the greatest seriousness that this matter imposes and not with social alarm or populism, which do not serve the national interest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u188	For a second intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, that no one will consider an alarm if the Greens claim that we speak from an open-air uranium mine is something very serious in terms of security of the territory, public health and the environment and we are talking about radioactivity and a hypothetical contamination by heavy metals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u190	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u191	Therefore, it is unacceptable that the PSD/CDS Government has done nothing strictly about this and it will be unacceptable if the PS Government does not do anything about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u192	Well remembered! [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u193	We are talking—and it has already been remembered—of a border region that has been completely forgotten, namely the municipalities of Almeida, Freixo de Espada à Cinta, Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, among others. These councils have been completely forgotten! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] You have contributed to the closure of public services and the depopulation of this territory, and you cannot forget that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u195	In fact, we have a dual responsibility to safeguard this territory and these populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u196	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u197	Finally, Mr President, the Greens demand that the Portuguese people have a word to say on this matter and that there is no longer a public consultation process where the population can speak. « Don’t shut your mouth! ' — that is how the people must react and that is why we must be proactive for the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese Government for the Spanish Government. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u198	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as planned — and already 25 minutes late — we will move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 199 presences, to which 6 are added — those of the Members. Deputies Heloísa Apollonia and José Luís Ferreira, dos Verdes, Pedro Soares, do BE, Paulo Trigo Pereira, do PS, and Assunção Cristas and Isabel Galriza Neto, do CDS-PP,, making 205 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 495 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Stephen Hawking, presented by the President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Greens and PAN, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the disappearance of Stephen Hawking, the major name of Physics and Cosmology. Stephen Hawking was born on March 14, 1942, in Oxford, where he continued his higher education, having completed his PhD in Cambridge in 1966. in these days, it was remembered that Hawking was born 300 years after Galileo's death and died on the day Einstein was born. It will not be exaggerated to invoke this coincidence and compare it to these summit figures of the history of Science, given the revolution that operated in the way we today look at the origin of the universe, unraveling mysteries and overcoming gaps. His starting questions were ambitious and were answered with distinction: "Why is the universe like it? "Why does it exist?" Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Hawking was also an example of perseverance, not only in the research he developed, but also in the courage with which he fought against the degenerative disease that affected him and in the generosity with which he shared with the scientific community and with the general public his theses and his discoveries, thus encouraging the critical scrutiny, true motor of knowledge. His work A Short History of Time : from Big Bang to Black Holes touched human imagination and was a rare case of success and popularity in the world of scientific publications. Stephen Hawking was in fact a great promoter of scientific culture, a citizen committed to the great causes of his time and a humanist with a curiosity who did not know borders. Meeting in plenary session, the members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest sympathy at Stephen Hawking's University and family for their disappearance and the greatest tribute to the example of hope that he leaves to mankind. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u200	Thank you very much, Secretary Idália Serrão. Mrs. Members, let us vote 495 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 496/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Of regret and condemnation for the death of Marielle Franco and Anderson Pedro Gomes, presented by BE, PAN, PS, PS, CDS-PP and Greens, and signed by 1 PCP Member, who will be read by Secretary Mois Ferreira. I should like to inform you that I too am in favour of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “ ‘ The mandate of a black woman, favelled, peripheral, needs to be guided by social movements, along with organized civil society. ’ These were some of the last words given by Marielle Franco, a councilwoman of the Party Socialism and Freedom (PSOL), in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, woman, black, lesbian, activist, intransigent human rights defender and self-titled ‘create of the favela da Maré’, who was brutally shot last Wednesday, March 14 in Brazil, at the exit of a public session of empowerment of black women. So they were Anderson Pedro Gomes, driver of the vehicle, who was also shot and ended up dying, and counsellor Fernanda Chaves, who survived the attack. According to the police’s first information, the killers were in a car that stopped next to the councillor’s vehicle and fled after the execution. Marielle was killed with four shots on her head. Several humanitarian organizations have already demanded speed in research. Marielle Franco was the rapporteur of the federal intervention follow-up committee in Rio de Janeiro and in recent days had denounced the murder of young black people by the State military police. Marielle Franco was the fifth most voted mayor of Rio de Janeiro in the 2016 elections, with more than 46 000 votes in his first electoral dispute. Sociologist, feminist, human rights activist and critic of the recent occupation of large urban areas for the military intervention of the federal government in Rio de Janeiro, Marielle Franco was engaged in the fight for human rights, especially in the defence of the rights of black women and the residents of slums and suburbs, and in the denunciation of police violence. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the murder of Marielle Franco and Anderson Pedro Gomes and conveys its condolences to its family members, the PSOL and the Brazilian people, and expresses the most vehement condemnation of violence and political and hate crimes that are increasing from day to day in Brazil. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 496 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1267 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Geostrategic position of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereirae abstaining from PS and BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1316 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the geostrategic importance of the Azores ( PS ). Mrs. Members, the NAP intends to vote first on points 1 and 2 and then on points 3 and 4. So let us start by voting on points 1 and 2 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote points 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1390 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Regional Government of the Azores, take the necessary measures for a political link that enhances the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of that Autonomous Region ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1415 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The strategic enhancement of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1423 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the appreciation of the geostrategic importance of the Madeira archipelago ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No. 759 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recovers for the public domain the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the provision of the universal telecommunications service ( second amendment to the Telecommunications Bases Act, Law No 91 / 97 of 1 August ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u203	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u204	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u205	Mr President, to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on the bill that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1411 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — To defend the national interest and control of Portugal Telecom ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1022/ XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — To halt the liquidation of PT, to defend workers and the national interest ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 911 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort with the Spanish State to stop uranium exploration in Salamanca at our border ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1397 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all efforts and endeavours to ensure that the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is properly complied with to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1433/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government require the Spanish Government to conduct a cross-border environmental impact study on uranium mines in Retortillo-Saintidad ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1405 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, under the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects, adopt the necessary measures with the Spanish State with a view to suspending any final decision on the implementation of the project of the processed uranium factory and mining in Retortillo-Saintidad ( Salamanca ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1406 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures with the Spanish authorities to prevent the installation of the Retortillo-Saintity uranium mine ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, the PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and PS and PCP abstentions.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1409 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate efforts to stop the exploitation of uranium in Retortillo with the Kingdom of Spain and international bodies ( PAN). The PS calls for the breakdown of point 3, which we shall begin by voting immediately. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and PCP.]] Let us now vote points 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 1409 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure compliance with the Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain within the framework of the exploitation of uranium in Salamanca ( PS ). We shall begin by voting on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and votes against BE, The Greens and the NAP were approved.]] We shall vote on points 1 and 3 of draft resolution No 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u207	Mr President, with regard to draft resolution No 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the PSD votes in favour of points 1 and 3 and against point 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repeat the vote, because it cannot be later, after the votes have ended, that statements are made on the previous votes. Let us then vote point 2 of draft resolution No 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP and votes against the PSD, the BE of the Greens and the PAN.]] Let us now vote on points 1 and 3 of draft resolution No 1412/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u209	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u210	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u211	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions on uranium mining in Salamanca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u212	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a series of legislative initiatives which, although they are on the script, will not be voted on because they have not yet been discussed. We shall vote on resolution No 65 / XIII ( 3 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain by which the closing line of the Min and Guadiana Rivers is established and the international divides of both rivers are delimited, signed in Vila Real, on 20 May 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u213	Mr President, I am sorry but I just wanted to announce that on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group we will present a statement of vote on the package of legislative initiatives we have just voted on on on the mining of uranium in Salamanca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u216	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u217	Mr President, it is only to say that the vote on the motion for a resolution No 65/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) cannot occur since this was the last item on today's agenda. No matter how long we have not been given, from the moment that the agenda is not running and that the Bureau has not indicated anything before, we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u218	You're right, sir. We shall postpone this vote for the next sitting when there are votes. Given the Bureau's exchange of presidencies, although the motion for a resolution had not been given time, it was not announced. We shall then proceed to the vote on point 8 of draft resolution No 1385/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) - Recommends that the Government adopt a plan for improving the National Health Service ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 592/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — For the public management of the North Rehabilitation Centre, Joaquim Ferreira Alves ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1304 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the public management of the North Rehabilitation Centre and the review of the current agreement with the Hospital da Prelada ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1263 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of the special protection zone of the Port Historic Centre, as determined in Law No 107 / 2001 ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1339 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the special protection zone ( ZEP ) of the Port Historic Centre ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1413/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate commencement of the procedure for delimiting the special protection zone of the Historic Centre of Porto and Gaia and the extension of the zone classified to the Historical Centre of Gaia ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the drafts of lein. 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ( PSD ), 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February, ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005 / 36 / EC(PAN) and 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the management of works, amending the standard relating to the qualification of project authors ( PAN ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u220	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u221	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u222	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u223	Mr President, the appeal is simple. We now have for the global final vote a text presented by 6. the Commission on various draft laws which originate draft law No 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Mr President, a petition is pending in the Assembly of the Republic, signed by more than 11 000 signatures, on this same initiative and the proceedings of that petition were closed before the vote on that diploma in the speciality. My question is why we will close a legislative process when we have a petition signed by 11 000 citizens who have not yet been approved by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. As you know, petitions do not block legislative procedures in committees and this final text came from the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works without any repair and therefore the Bureau has to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u226	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u227	Mr President, it is merely to say that, like what I did at the time of discussion and voting, in general, of these diplomas, I would like to express to the House my particular interest in being married to an architect and, therefore, I will abstain at the time of voting on this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u228	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr António Lima Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u229	Mr President, it is to declare that I have a particular interest in the matters which are the subject of the next vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u230	Be registered. Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u231	Mr President, it is to declare that although I do not have a particular interest in the matter, I am a member of the Engineering Order.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u232	Be registered. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u233	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u234	Be registered. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u235	Mr President, I am not an architect but I would like to make a contribution to clarifying this vote. What the Statute of Members says is not that Members are absent or no longer voting, because this implies changing the composition of the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u236	Members should make a declaration of any particular interest, but participate in the vote, which is what Article 27 says. the Statute. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u237	All right. The procedure shall be taken into account by each Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u238	Mr President, I would also like to take the floor to declare my particular interest, since I am an architect.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u239	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u240	Mr President, it is to inform the House that, although I am licensed in Civil Engineering, I have no particular interest in this vote, and I shall therefore vote in conscience. [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u241	Mr President, this request should not have been made. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to keep quiet, because in this way you do not hear what your colleagues want to convey. Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u242	Mr President, since I have some doubts about the possibility of voting, I would also prefer to declare my impediment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u243	Madam Member, we are not discussing doubts or asking questions, we are in full vote, although it does not seem. Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u244	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that I have a particular interest in the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u245	It is also registered, Mr. Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u246	Mr President, I would like to make a statement of interest. I have no family who is an engineer, technical engineer, technical engineer or engineering agent, I am an architect, licensed by the Faculty of Architecture of Lisbon and what is involved here is of public interest, therefore not in any particular interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u247	Mr President, it has already been explained by Mr João Oliveira that the logic of these statements, which is not exactly this one, but each one acts in conscience. Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u248	Mr President, I would also like to say that I have a particular interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u249	Be registered. Mr António Topa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u250	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I have a personal interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u251	Mrs. Members, after all these statements, we are in a position to vote, in a global final vote, on the final text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the drafts of lein. 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ( PSD ), 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February, ensuring the correct transposition of Directive 2005 / 36 / EC(PAN) and 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the management of works, amending the standard relating to the qualification of project authors ( PAN ). I would also like to say that I myself will vote against the final text. [[Subject to vote, it was approved, subject to vote, subject to vote, and subject to vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against BE, of 42 PS (Alexandre Quintanilha, Ana Passos, Ascension Simões, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Constanza Urbano de Sousa, Edit Estrella, Elza Verdes and PAN, votes against BE, votes against BE, of 42 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Ana Passos, Ascension Simões, Carla Sousa, Cata Marcelino, Cons Urbano of Sousa, E Edited Estrella, Elza Paiza País, votes against BEE, votes with votes in favour of the PDP, votes with votes in favour of the PDP, of the PDP, of the PCP, the Greens and of the PAN, votes against the PP, votes against the vote, votes against the vote vote against the vote against the vote, vote against the vote against the vote against the BE of 42 vote of 42., for the vote of 42., of 42 vote of 42 vote against the vote of 42, of 42 vote of PS (A, of 42 (A, of 42, of 42 vote of 42 vote of 42 vote of 42 vote against the BE (A, of 42 vote of PS (A, of 42 vote against BE (A, of 42 (A being put put put put put vote (A submitted (A, of 42 vote of 42 vote of 42 (Aele vote of PS (Ave vote (Aless vote (Aless vote against (Aless vote of all vote against (Aless vote of all vote against against against against against (Aless; representatives of PS (Aless vote against (Aless vote against against against against (A Alexander Quinta vote against against against against (Aless vote against (Aless (Aless; Aless vote against against against against against against against against against against against against against against against against Alex Alexander Quinta vote (A Alexander Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta (A Alexander Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta (A Alexander Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta of PS (A Alexander Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta Quinta]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u253	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u254	Mr President, I would just like to make a statement on the announcement of the outcome of the vote: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did not have an official voting position, in that it gave the Members the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen. So, we were asking to identify the number of Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party who voted against and the number of Mr. Members of the Socialist Party who voted abstention. This is indeed the most rigorous way of noting the meaning of PS's vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u255	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall have to see how many Members of the Socialist Party were registered. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u256	But do you want me to say the names of the Members who abstained? It's absurd, isn't it? Just say the names of the Members who voted against, because those who abstained are the others, it is not worth being accountable. It was clear that there was no official position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, insofar as there were those who voted against and abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u257	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u258	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u259	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we intend to make an oral vote immediately before the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u260	Of course, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u261	Mr President, I would also like to take the floor to request that the Bureau be delivered and that a written vote be distributed on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u262	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Moreira, did you ask for the word for what effect? I'm asking all of you. Members who have taken an individual position not to all make a statement of vote, but we do not leave here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u263	That's not it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u264	It's just a matter of common sense. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u265	Mr President, several Members and several PSD Members left the Chamber because they felt they had a particular interest. [[PSD protests.]] As Mr João Oliveira pointed out, this does not make the least sense and does not contravene the rules governing us. in this sense, I would ask for a roll-call vote. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u266	Mrs. Member, please. Nominal votes shall be requested before the voting procedure is initiated. This exception cannot be opened at this time. As Mrs. Isabel Moreira knows, in many votes there are people who, after seeing the quorum, come out. It's not that it's a correct practice, but it happens. So we will not open here an exception for PSD Members who have even announced their exit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u267	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u268	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u269	Mr President, I am sorry, but I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau. Article 98. , paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure states: "In addition to situations where a qualified majority is required, voting may be subject to counting, by electronic means in cases previously established by the Conference of Leaders..."—which is not the case— "or, when the House deliberates, the requirement of at least 10 Members. Do not keep on seeking. ” The gentlemen. PS Members who voted against request a vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u270	There must be a requirement of at least 10 Members. If there is a request signed by 10 Members, I shall put it to the vote, which is what the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u271	Mr. President, I said that Mr. PS Members who voted against will make a request. Let's introduce you to the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u272	Madam Member, it is considered that the request has entered the Bureau but must be voted on. And only if the request is approved is that there will be a roll-call vote. We shall therefore vote on the request made by Mrs Helena Roseta on behalf of the Members who voted against the final text. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to complicate what is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u273	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u274	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u275	Mr President, in this call to the Bureau on the agenda, I would like to say the following: in fact, I was one of the Members who voted against, but I believe that a requirement for nominal counting must necessarily be submitted before the vote and, in this case, the vote has already taken place. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u276	That is what I started by saying to Mrs Helena Roseta, but I think that in these situations it is better to confirm which majority are in favour of the Bureau's decisions. This question is sufficiently complex and therefore the Bureau's decision is that the result of the vote must be announced and nothing else is done. I ask who disagrees with the Bureau and who abstains. [[Pause.]] The position of the Bureau was adopted. Let's continue the work. Mr Telmo Correia recently asked for the floor. I'm sorry I haven't given it yet, but please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u277	It does not matter, Mr President. I would just like to say, briefly, that the members of the CDS also exercised freedom of vote and I wanted, not on behalf of the bench, but on my own behalf, as well as the Members. Members Assumption Cristas, João Almeida, Ana Rita Bessa, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Antonio Carlos Monteiro and Isabel Galliça Neto, i.e. the seven Members who voted against, announce that we will present, in writing, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u278	It is therefore the announcement of a declaration of vote. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u279	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. On my own behalf and on behalf of a group of Members of the Socialist Party who abstained in this vote, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u280	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u281	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. In my name and on behalf of a group of Members, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u282	Be registered. Mr Joaquim Foxo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u283	Mr President, it is to inform me that, on my own behalf, I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u284	Be registered. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u285	Mr President, for the same purpose. The PSD Parliamentary Group will also deliver a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u287	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u288	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, before we proceed to the oral vote statement requested by the CFP Parliamentary Group, I inform you that paragraphs 43 to 53 of the Diário are being approved for the plenary meetings of 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 21, 22, 23 and 28 February. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The Secretary will then take note of an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u289	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No. 2949 / 15.7TDLSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. João Soares ( PS ) to testify in writing as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u290	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The oral explanations of vote on the final text on the drafts of lein. 495, 576 and 577 / XIII ( 2. ( a). To that end, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u291	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The approved standard on project development does not refer to the general issue of the preparation of architectural projects by other professionals who are not architects, but to the situation of a more limited set of civil engineers to whom the Ombudsman has given reason, recommending to the Assembly the amendment of the law. When the Assembly discussed the petition of these civil engineers, with the initiatives of the PSD and the PAN, the CFP has always reaffirmed two fundamental principles in this discussion. First, we must point out a path and a goal of consecrating and fulfilling the right to architecture, which means ensuring that architecture is actually exercised only by architects. Second, the path to this goal should not ignore the concrete situation of those professionals that the State has always recognized and certified as empowered to develop project, but not extending that scope. When the bills came down to the committee for the debate in the field of specialty, several parties presented proposals for amendment with alternative solutions for the text. The CFP's proposal in this area had the following fundamental objectives: firstly, it did not allow the scope of interventions in which it was possible to draw up projects by these engineers; secondly, it did not refer, generally, to a directive, firstly, put in question the explicit reference to the universe of the people concerned, the graduates in one of those four courses, registered until 1987; thirdly, it did not change the rule, but rather the exception, in the transitory of a given generation; and finally, it placed as conditions, cumulatively, the licensing concerned, the year of its beginning and the inclusion in its respective Order. The proposal of the CFP was therefore to amend and correct, in the specialty, the formulation of the initiatives of the PSD and the NAP and was approved unanimously. Only two weeks after the last day 8 the vote was repeated, with the change of positions of the PS and BE,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u292	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u293	... who voted in favour of voting against. The position of vote and the intervention of the CFP is evidence of its coherent and constructive position, seeking, in good sense, to contribute to correct and avoid errors within the framework of the principles it has always stated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u294	Mrs. Members, having no other Members registered to make explanations of vote, we turn to point five of our agenda, which is based on the assessment of petition No 191 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Establishment of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver of the Person with Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative dementias or pathologies and creation of the National Caregiver Day (Alzheimer's Group of Informal Caregivers and similar dementias) together with the draft resolutions 1400 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider dementia and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority, that it develop a national plan for intervention for dementias, that it adopt the measures necessary for adequate support for these patients and their families and that it create and implement the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( CDS-PP ) and 1408/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to support informal caregivers (NAP) and, in general, with the projects of lein.o 801 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver and strengthens the support measures for dependent persons ( makes the third amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2006 of 6 June 2006 and the tenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE) and 804 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen support for informal caregivers and dependents ( PCPs ). You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to welcome the petitioners and say that, obviously, this is not a minor debate and that, because we are going to proceed after the votes, it does not lose all its relevance. What we are discussing is essential issues about dementia, but it should be remembered that, not only about this chronic disease, dementia, which is an estimated pathology that reaches, today, more than 200 000 Portuguese people, in our country, in every 1000 people, have dementia. In addition to the impact that dementia has on its carriers, especially on older people, there is a strong impact on families and health services, a clearly social and economic impact. We are talking about a social priority, a public health priority, as the CDS has been saying for years. We have repeatedly warned this reality, we have had multiple initiatives to draw attention to this situation, to the need for adequate responses to these people with chronic and progressive disease, winning that they cannot be looked at as people or patients of second age, they cannot, nor can they, nor their caregivers, see their needs ignored. at the end of two and a half years of governance, what did we have of the government's answers in this matter? A working group was created—one more, of the many famous— whose results are unknown and without significant developments. We have recommendations from this Parliament for the creation of the Caregiver Statute, and here I would like to remind you that not only for dementias, not only for the elderly, but for people of all ages and with multiple chronic diseases. We have these recommendations adopted since 2016, which await, sadly, the implementation by this government, which has made musk ears on this matter and therefore has not been advanced. The CDS has made concrete proposals for the protection of the most vulnerable elderly, for the protection of people with dementia, who have been sadly plunged into this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we are too late and we believe that the government has not looked at this reality with the proper political priority, with the responsibility it is required. Therefore, the CDS will continue to defend, as it has done so far, a rigorous and humanized follow-up for all people with chronic and progressive disease, for all people with dementia and for their caregivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u296	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u297	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, we are presenting a project with a set of proposals, including the creation of the national plan for dementias, the need to optimize the way of care for these people, particularly in the end of life. We will therefore continue to fight for these people's rights and demand that the Government respond to the specific demands. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u298	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP congratulates the more than 8,000 petitioners who brought this issue to debate. Informal caregivers play an essential role in promoting the health and well-being of the person caring for, dealing with a diversity of efforts, tensions and tasks that can lead to exhaustion and contribute to the reduction of their quality of life, with greater risk of poverty, isolation, health problems, physical and mental, and significant difficulties in remaining included in the labour market. Thus, having no legal protection, we propose the creation of a statute with specific tax and labour rights, dedicating ourselves to the existence of shortcomings and permits and ensuring the right to rest of the caregiver. Permanent support should also be given to the caregiver to provide care to the person in charge, as well as psychosocial support and training and information sessions. The orientation of health and social policies is to favour the stay of the dependent person in the home, through the creation of proximity services and training of caregivers families, so it is necessary to create real conditions and establish rights for informal caregivers to do this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u300	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the informal caregivers and caregivers who are present in the galleries attending this session. I was the rapporteur of your petition, over the past few months we have met and talked many times, and we have told you that we are going to assume our responsibility and present a bill to create the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. Here we are, the Left Block presented a bill that creates the status and reinforces support for dependent people. As has been said, there are about 800 000 people in Portugal who provide informal care. They are almost always family members, in their overwhelming majority they are women and they do a job that is not paid or even recognized. To aggravate the problem, there are very few formal care and a burden of families, for those who throw all their responsibilities. Many of the people who have someone in their care end up having difficulty reconciling these care with work and, therefore, are also more exposed to poverty and also to depression, stress and exhaustion. Those and those who are now taking care of others, but it is also necessary for the State, that the community take care of the caregivers. Almost two years ago, several recommendations were adopted for the Government to create an Informal Care Statute. The government has commissioned a study, but it has not yet implemented any measures. After two years, there are parties, such as the CDS or the PAN, which propose that it be recommended again exactly the same. It is now time for us to make the law and Parliament assume their responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]] First, we want social support for dependents and responses in terms of formal care to be strengthened. Secondly, we want caregivers to be able to reconcile care with professional life, providing for leave, lack of assistance, reduced working time and changes to labour law. Thirdly, we propose that the provision of informal care be recognized when calculating the old-age pension, accounting for the career contributing to the provision of care. With the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, we define the rights and duties of the caregivers and a plan of care, training and access to information, which must involve and respect the decision of the carer. We also want to realize the right to rest for caregivers: for each month of care provision, at least four days of rest, at least 11 days a year of consecutive vacation, guaranteed by the entry into the scene of formal caregivers who provide home care or by the possibility of the caregiver being hospitalized in a unit of the National Network of Continued Integrated Care. We do not promise you paradise on Earth, but we understand that it is necessary to begin to recognize care and now start the process of specialization of this law. through our contacts with the other parties, we realized that, if it had been the vote today, our bill would have been approved. Care is a demonstration of generosity and attention to the other, but it has heavy costs, especially for those who do so without support. And it has to be a choice. So we are open to doing this law, we are available to work here, in Parliament, with the contribution of all, but we do not want to waste any more time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u302	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Dias, who would like to congratulate you on your first intervention in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u303	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since this is my first intervention in the plenary, I would also like to begin by congratulating Mr President and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the petitioners here, who, with an effort that is to be raised, have managed to bring the debate a subject which is particularly concerned about the CFP and which greatly affects the lives of thousands of caregivers. I would also like to recall the important role played by informal caregivers in ensuring the quality of life of caring people. Caregivers are people who care for us, they are subject to a huge physical and psychological burden that, in many cases, leads to exhaustion and exhaustion. In order to respond to the problems of informal caregivers, the CFP has had an ongoing intervention on this subject, has accompanied the discussion on the need to give more attention to informal caregivers and to the surrounding family and social situations, as well as has institutionally intervened with concrete proposals. We understand that the State cannot rule out its responsibilities, particularly in the social functions of the State, especially in the specific case, of health and social security. We understand that it is important to build a broad public response which, by supporting people in dependency, simultaneously guarantees support for informal caregivers. As far as the draft resolutions presented here are concerned, there are proposals that place some reservations on us. Mr. President and Mr. Members: As we have already stated, informal caregivers are subject to a great physical and psychological burden, but they face the lack of mechanisms and support, particularly public, that minimize such impacts. In order to minimize the consequences of exercising the function of informal caregivers, and because it is necessary to strengthen support and provision to informal caregivers, the PCP presents a bill that, among other aspects, reinforces psychosocial support, home support and social protection, as well as training and training of informal caregivers. Thus, this bill establishes measures to support informal caregivers and dependent people; recommends a network of support to informal caregivers based on public services, particularly in the areas of health, work and social security; promotes the training, counseling and training of caregivers, articulating themselves with local authorities within their competences; and recognizes to informal caregivers the right to psychosocial support, aiming, in particular, to minimize physical and psychological wear and social impacts resulting from their functions. This is an initiative that well reveals the CFP's commitment to defending all those who are informal caregivers and those who receive their care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u304	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the thousands of petitioners who, in the exercise of their citizenship, have brought back to the discussion the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. And, analyzing the object of petition No 191 / XIII ( 2. ( a), we can conclude that the concern about the topic under discussion today is consensual. With increased longevity, new challenges and problems arise, including dementia, which require follow-up and put us dependent on someone else's care and to which the State has to be able to respond. Informal caregivers are not professionals, they are volunteers who, in a way available, benevola, silent and solidarity, give themselves to look after someone else. For them a deep appreciation of my part and of the part of the PSD Parliamentary Group. For them the act of care is an act of love, replacing the State when it does not assume the social role. in this sense, it is for the State to recognize the essential role developed by these people. The PSD Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to present in 2016 very concrete and objective legislative proposals to support informal caregivers and the approval of their status. Many of them are now contained in the proposals under discussion today. And I leave some examples: tax deductions based on IRS; the availability of information, training and training of caregivers; the promotion of articulation between continuing primary care networks, also ensuring support for temporary admission of dependent people to rest of the caregiver; the promotion of telework. It matters, ladies and gentlemen. Members, understand and recognize the new challenges and, seriously, debate and create answers in the work area that allow solutions to be found in the context of social consultation, always in respect of the rights and duties of workers and employers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, aware that the act of care is an exhausting act for the caregiver, we cannot forget the rights of the people concerned and their autonomy as a person. It is necessary to create solutions and recognize the invaluable social role of informal caregivers and, in this sense, we are available and will continue to work on building effective legislative solutions. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that this is a matter of great importance and great sensitivity. For the PSD, people are above all and of any political interest or of any political calendar. For us, PSD, it is important to build legislation capable of covering all these challenges and giving concrete answers. That's what we intend to do, and we're gonna keep doing it. You can count on us to be part of a solution to a big problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u306	For an intervention, Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming, of course, the petitioners, who here once again bring to this House a matter which, after all the interventions before me, I can conclude that it does not cause any party division. In addition, I would add that there is a very general consensus in Portuguese society on the importance of the role of informal caregivers. But I would also like to note that there is a party that, throughout its history, and particularly in the last two years, has defended the relevance of the role of informal caregivers, this party is the Socialist Party. We have done so when a recommendation has been adopted here to the Government for the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, but we also do so with specific actions of the Government. When the Government invests in a social support network to those who need it most, anchored in the continuing care units, in teams providing continued care to the home, in the old residential structures, in home support services, in day-care centres, at night-care centres, the Government is also investing in informal caregivers. When the Government extends the responses to pediatrics and dementia in continuing care teams, it is also investing in informal caregivers. There is, of course, a question that is at stake: is all the effort, all the commitment of society collectively enough? The answer is simple: no. Should we continue? Yes, we must proceed. And why should we continue? We should not only do so out of sympathy with informal caregivers, but we should, at least, continue to gain their sympathy. We must do so, above all, because it is fair to recognize the role that informal caregivers have in relation to those who need it most. That is also why we must all speak clearly today. The Socialist Party is today, as it has been in the past and as it has been in the last two years, available to appoint the Government to pursue the good policies it has put into practice. That is our mission, and that is what, of course, we will continue to do, without creating false expectations, but, above all, doing a job in the specialty that allows, from the outset, to quantify the actual cost of these measures. The Socialist Party — the parties that present these proposals have not done so — is now available to do so in the specialty and we are sure that this work is essential to pursue a path that is desired without angles, without returns, without going back and that, of course, continues to appreciate the role of informal caregivers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u308	Mrs. Members, having no further entries for interventions on this subject, we will move to the following point, which is based on the assessment of petition No 253/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the creation of an exception regime in access to reform for teachers ( Maria Manuela Jesus Ferreira Alves et al.) together with draft resolutions 1396 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ), 1402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study and subsequent opening of a negotiation for a special retirement scheme for primary and secondary education educators and teachers ( CDS-PP ) and 1407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of long-term contribution careers and consideration of retirement schemes relating to specific situations, including teaching ( CFP ). To present the Green draft resolution, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens would like to begin by greeting the subscribers of petition No 253 / XIII ( 2. a ), which once again call the attention of the Assembly of the Republic to the teaching conditions in our country and, in particular, to the conditions of teachers, recognizing that there is indeed an ageing of the teaching body and that these teachers are subject to very high levels of exhaustion. Moreover, there are studies that perfectly recognize this. We are therefore talking about a profession of effective wear, physical and psychological wear. This is the reality. And we have two hypotheses: either we close our eyes to this reality or we act in accordance, in the sense, even to guarantee the dignity of these teachers, but also to guarantee the best conditions of teaching to all students and, therefore, to the well-being of the entire school community. It is precisely in the sense of being proactive and giving a concrete answer that The Greens are now re-presenting their draft resolution, which proposes a transitional regime for the retirement of teachers and educators, with a view to creating justice in this retirement regime. I reinforce the idea of the re-presentation of the project because, in fact, we have already presented it and discussed it in this legislature, although in another legislative session, and this project has been plummeted. And what The Greens today are demanding is a greater reflection by all parliamentary groups on the need to give an answer, the effective response that this project has just given and, therefore, in order to reflect on your position on this matter, so that we can give an effective answer to what these petitioners put to the Assembly of the Republic. The Greens therefore submit as a proposal a recommendation to the Government to start negotiations with a view to establishing a pension scheme for teachers and educators, with the only requirement of the 36 years of service and their respective discounts and, on the other hand, while this does not happen, that it creates immediately, a transitional regime that enables the voluntary retirement of teachers and educators with 40 or more years of service and discounts. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is urgent to adopt an adequate and fair retirement scheme, that takes all these issues into account and that it is seen as a need to protect the dignity, as I said, of many teachers and to ensure a necessary generational renewal, as well as to generate better learning conditions for students. It is precisely in this respect that the Greens present this draft resolution. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u310	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by complimenting the more than 19,000 subscribers to petition No 253 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) requesting the creation of an exception scheme for access to reform for teachers. It is not the first time that the CFP brings to the discussion the need to value long-term contributions, as well as the need to consider retirement schemes relating to specific situations, as in the case of teaching. We have always argued that the creation of a pension scheme as comprehensive as possible, so that no injustice is created, is a demanding and complex task, but it is also fair and cannot continue to be postponed. Therefore, we have defended the possibility of anticipating the age of access to old age pensions, without penalties, for all workers with 40 years of contributions. But more: we also advocate that the application of specific retirement schemes, such as teachers and educators, should be considered, with a prior assessment of the impact of measures aimed at their implementation, as well as the opening of the respective negotiating procedures. It is in fact recognized the extreme weariness these professions have and for many times have discussed it here in the Assembly of the Republic, but it takes time to take concrete steps to resolve this situation. The CFP has long proposed an assessment of the impact that the elimination of special retirement schemes has had on the functioning of public services. But, however, this proposal has always been rejected by PSD, CDS and PS. Therefore, it is at least curious to see the entry of a draft resolution of the CDS recommending a study and subsequent opening of negotiations for the creation of a special retirement scheme, because when they were in the previous government they did not only solve the problem, as they have worsened, and much, the situation of teachers and educators, from north to south of the country, and they were not, in fact, interested in knowing the real impacts that the change of rules had on both the lives of workers and also in the public services themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u312	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u313	But PS, PSD and CDS now have the opportunity, again, to define themselves: if they vote alongside the fair aspirations of workers or prefer to take together a path that only deepens the impacts of decades of right policy. With regard to the CFP, we have no doubt that the course of an alternative policy that is required to take away, but much further, the appreciation of long-term contribution careers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u314	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating the 19 676 subscribers of this petition in the person of his first petitioner, Maria Manuela Alves. The content of the petition once again raises all that we have said and argued systematically on this subject, and which, in fact, is contained in the explanatory statement of the draft resolution that we have tabled. Thus, the retirement of children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education is a delicate and complex issue that deserves study and solutions. The National Council for Education states — and I quote — « in a framework of increased difficulties and great complexity, all teachers are subject to a complex set of tensions, demands and constraints resulting from various factors, of which the structural ambiguity of their Statute, the multiplicity of functions and tasks and the multiple and demanding expectations society has about its performance ». However, the average aging of teaching professionals is well known in Portugal. According to the National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools, the increase in retirement age and the residual number of hired teachers entering the career lead to an increasing average of teachers' age, thus having an advantage in the gradual renewal of the teaching body with the introduction of younger teachers into the system, since many of our schools have a stabilized, but worn-out and aged faculty. Age balance in the teaching class is therefore a significant criterion in the desired relationship between experience and novelty that should co-exist in an educational institution and should be considered the high level of aging and the need to renew the teaching body and ensure the transmission and renewal of professional knowledge and culture. There is no doubt in the CDS that this is an issue which is undoubtedly worthy of reflection, which requires consensus and where a decision is needed. It is appropriate to recall and point out that, following meetings between the Ministry of Education and the trade unions in June last year, a commitment has been made to retirement, and I quote: "As the political and budgetary conditions are not yet met to ensure, at the moment, any early retirement scheme, specific to the teaching career, the Ministry of Education undertakes to ensure close follow-up in this regard in order to ensure the parallelism of possible differentiated treatment for teachers". [[Protests from The Greens and the MP of the PCP Ana Mesquita.]] The Government, through the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, came to recall the homogenization of systems of the convergence regime with the general social security regime, saying that it intends to ensure equal treatment, guided by the same rules. But, except for due respect, teachers should not be put on the same plane as those who are lucky to be able to turn off the computer, close the distribution door and go restlessly home to exchange television channels. For teachers, every day it's Monday. Teaching in non-higher education is exercised in the confluence of multiple actions and interactions (students, parents, educational authorities and community institutions) and implies the performance of intense and permanent intellectual, social, cultural and administrative work. It is obvious and full justice that this government, almost addicted to working groups, constitutes one more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u316	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u317	I will finish, Mr. President. thus, a working group to study and promote the negotiation of a special retirement scheme for children educators and teachers of primary and secondary education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u318	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u319	... in which the urgent need to ensure the transmission and renewal of knowledge and professional culture between generations should be present. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u320	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's initiatives focus on the proposal for an exceptional pension scheme for children's teachers and educators. The review of the flexible pension access age regime as well as special early retirement schemes has been studied by the Government and has been the subject of dialogue with the social partners, which started in 2017 and will continue in 2018. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the issues raised by the proposals in the presence deserve consideration, but should be resolved by other ways than by resorting to a special regime, which would be against fundamental options for convergence of the systems, which are being consistently pursued for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: As part of the convergence process between the General Opinion Box and the general social security regime carried out in 2005, a review of the special said schemes was carried out which resulted in a deviation from the rules of the Staff Regulations. With this convergence, it follows a path of homogenisation of systems, in order to give greater transparency, eliminate discrepancies, ensuring a more equal treatment, guided by the same rules. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is in favour of this convergence, since this means that the pension system is better protected as a central element of the social state. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot in any way question the sustainability of social security, since this would not benefit any worker,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u322	...as teachers well know. We unequivocally assume that the social and professional appreciation of teachers, in their multiple dimensions, is paramount in an educational system that we all defend more effective, more efficient, with the highest quality. This same guideline is also included in the 21st Government Programme, in order to defend the sustainability of the pension system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We continue to believe that teachers, all teachers, and issues relating to their careers and retirement systems have very specific characteristics, which cannot be determined by avulgesive measures. The dignity and appreciation of the teaching class does not harmonize with these processes, often generating more injustice. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it necessary to set up new solutions, recognizing the existence of situations that deserve added weighting, but always in a view of sustainability, responsibility and safeguarding the collective future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u323	Mr Maria Germana Rocha has now spoken on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 19,000 signatories of this petition, the purpose of which is to create an exception regime in access to reform for teachers. The special retirement scheme was repealed in 2006 by a socialist government, led by Eng. José Socrates, which followed several transitional regimes that eventually created some situations of injustice over time. Teachers have a noble, complex and decisive mission to build a society that is just and promising. It is therefore up to the Government to create the necessary conditions for the full performance of these functions, with the main objective being a system of education with the necessary quality and ambition for the present and future generations. in this context, one of the most worrying factors is, no doubt, the birth rate, which, after two consecutive years in growth, declined again in 2017, when on average less seven children were born per day, compared to 2016, which is aggravated and hypothesized the situation of the teaching class.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u325	You guys didn't do anything about it either!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u326	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the fourth day of the teachers' strike is celebrated, which shows that teachers do not trust and feel deceived by this government, through the expectations that they have been created.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u327	With the fight, it's moving!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u328	That is why it is imperative that serious and rigorous commitments be made with the teaching class, in which this government and the parties that support it assume, once and for all, their responsibilities and leave behind the accounting policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u329	Take yours! PSD does not exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u330	... because they cannot one day promise worlds and funds and the next day approve a State budget, in which they do not assume whether or not they are available to accommodate these same expectations and their impacts. The truth, ladies. Members, the Minister of Finance, in response to the Assembly of the Republic, has removed the possibility of establishing a special retirement scheme for children's teachers and educators. In this regard, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, still addressing this Parliament this week, I repeat, this week, said, and I quote: "I consider it unviable and inappropriate to use the creation of a special retirement scheme, which would open a precedent with the effects of unforeseeable withdrawal". End of citation. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u331	Therefore, because of the enormous respect we deserve from teachers and educators of childhood, it is more than when this government alliance assumes its responsibilities before the Portuguese, leaving false propaganda and mere stagnation policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u332	The floor is also for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, the PSD has chosen to move next to the debate and, again, has frustrated the expectations not of the Left Block, not of the PCP, not of the parties that subscribe to these initiatives, because we already know that we do not count on the PSD votes to approve the projects we present here, but of the thousands of subscribers of this petition, who wanted to know what the PSD has to say about the right to retirement, about the wear of the profession, about the need for the generational renewal of the public school and learned that the PSD has nothing to say about these problems, I repeat, nothing to say about these problems. So that's what we're talking about. The Left Block has already presented in this Parliament a project on the same matter that is brought here today by these subscribers, which I take advantage of to greet. And these subscribers present this petition to us for certain and generous reasons with the public school. It is that when they tell us that their right to retirement is much more than the right of a worker, who are teachers and teachers, when they tell us that the right to retirement is an essential matter, because, without generational renewal, we are questioning the quality of public school, they are being generous with our teaching system, they are alerting us to a serious problem. If we want to invest in quality education, we must understand that less than 1% of teachers and educators are under 30 years old, while over 45% are 50 years old or older. Preventing teachers from accessing the reform means that it is creating a forced aging of the teaching class that affects not only the lives of these people but also the capacity for generational renewal of the public school. We have to understand that, within the limits, it is possible that a teacher of 1. the cycle, with 66 years of age and 46 years of service, has to teach a class with more than 26 students 6 or 7 years of age. No one understands how a 66-year-old and 46-year-old teacher can teach 6-7-year-olds and arrive at the end of the day with the ability to continue doing so the following day. These were the reasons we presented, once again, when we proposed the right to reform with 40 years of contributions, without penalty per age, stressing that it would have positive effects in many areas, but in particular in these areas of wear, as is the case for teachers and teachers. This project was plunged, unfortunately, and this is why we did not represent it, because we do not believe that the PSD, as proved, has changed ideas and, unfortunately, the PS has not yet come to the conclusion that this problem needs to be solved. We will, of course, vote in favour of the serious projects that want to solve the problem of the aging of the teaching class, what we are not going to do is participate in the exercise of hypocrisy which the CDS here brings us, by wanting, now, to worry about those who forced to work until later, with those whose rights it attacked when it was government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u334	To conclude this debate, you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP does not want to fail to greet teachers in the struggle to defend their rights and to conclude a regional strike journey today, culminating in the North. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u336	There is a fundamental question: the PSD today says that others have to assume their responsibilities, because, it is more than seen, the PSD does not exist to assume any responsibility, in order to enable the most just solutions for workers, in order to vote on the proposals presented by the CFP to solve the problems. And it's easy to know why. Because PSD is part of the problem and is not the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u337	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u338	More: It is important to remember why, and there is a very concrete explanation, that puts PSD and CDS on the same site. I refer to the 2013 decree that began to cut pensions with the sustainability factor, including those of the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u339	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u340	Now, there you are, they are part of the problem, they will never be part of the solution! To that end, the CFP will be, with its determined action, to defend the rights of workers and to defend the rights of educators and teachers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u341	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint assessment of petition No 253 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions 1396 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the Greens, 1402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the CDS-PP, and 1407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the PCP. It is also on our agenda today, without time for debate, that motion for a resolution No 65/ XIII ( 3 ) should be adopted. ( a ) — Approves the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain by which the closing line of the Min and Guadian rivers flows is established and the international portions of both rivers are delimited, signed in Vila Real, on 20 May 2017. I now ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, to inform us of some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u342	Mr President, I should like to announce that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1425 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Generalization of access to the medicinal product to treat spinal muscle atrophy to patients with type I and type II in all hospitals of the National Health Service (The Greens) and 1426 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide patients with spinal atrophy with the most appropriate treatments, including pharmacological ( PCP ), both fall to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-16.u343	Before I finish, I will announce the agenda of the next plenary meeting, which takes place on Wednesday, March 21st, beginning of spring. At the first point we will have political statements. The second point follows the assessment of Bill No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( ALRAM ). Finally, in the third point, the discussion of Bill No 25 / XIII ( 1 ) is scheduled. ( a ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, and amending the Code of Municipal Property Tax, as approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ( ALRAM ). So we're done with our session. I thank everyone and wish you a great weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 54 minutes.]]
