ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the authority to open the galleries to the public. At today's session we will continue with the discussion, in the speciality, of the Bill No 156 / XIII / 4. a — Approves the State budget for 2019, starting with, firstly, discussion of legal rules, each parliamentary group, the government and the 5-minute NAP for all, those rules which we will then vote on. The Bureau did an exercise to see if the discussion was minimally perceptible to the outside and we came to the conclusion that there are four groups of major topics: Madeira theme, social security theme, teacher theme and local power theme. There is still a fifth theme, that of informal caregivers. I was asking the ladies. Members of each of the parties who sign up by theme for the discussion to make sense and be perceptible to the outside of this Chamber, recalling that the five minutes are for the whole of the interventions of each party and not for each topic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u2	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u3	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work. After this period of discussion of the rules avocados, we will have the voting period, and there are two articles on which we have found that the vote script may raise doubts. These are the votes that were taken yesterday in the Commission and which today only partially come to the plenary. These are Articles 60. o is 61. o. I believe that, in order to be clear about the final outcome of the votes, it was preferable to reproduce the script which was voted on yesterday in the Commission to find out what was approved or rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u4	I request you to send this script to the Bureau. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u5	Mr President, it was the Social Democratic Party that specifically called for the approval of its proposals and, therefore, our reading is that DAPLEN (Plenary Support Division) has done what is normal to do. The other parties did not ask for the approval of their proposals and now they want them to be voted back here in plenary. If we follow this principle, when we ask for a proposal in IRS, then all amendments relating to IRS and the IRS article itself have to come here. This is not the habit DAPLEN has.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u6	We will have to vote in such a way as to make it clear what is voted on. That's our concern. In the meantime, the Bureau has some warnings to make to the plenary. To that end, you have the floor of Mr. Secretary Emilia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 1028 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), which adds the jurisdiction of the Court of Intellectual Property, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act, which falls to 9. the Commission. There is also a report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the suspension of Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP ), Evora electoral circle, being replaced by Válter Ricardo Borralho dos Loios, with effect from 1 December 2018 until 1 January 2019, including. The opinion is in the sense that the Member concerned is to admit that the legal requirements have been met. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion just mentioned. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us, then, enter into the appreciation of the legal standards, starting with the questions of teachers. Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we discuss again the appreciation of the professionals of the Public Administration, specifically the teaching career. to those who say that negotiations must be negotiated, it should be remembered that there have been negotiations, months of negotiations. The fact is that the government has taken steps, has approached the position of the unions, going beyond our electoral commitments and the government programme. But the unions did not move one millimeter, they wanted the final result equal to their initial position. When we appealed to the unions to give a signal, not to let negotiations die, no voice accompanied us in this House. There's a new chance that she'll be taken advantage of. Now one thing is certain: it makes no sense to demand a negotiation and, at the same time, would like to set in the State budget the essential of the outcome of the negotiation. Mrs. Yesterday, after the vote on this matter in the Committee on Budget, a Member said that an alternative majority had been formed. Let it be clear that, on our side, we are not looking for any alternative majority, of what we are looking for is the way to continue to value education professionals in the framework of a sustained policy of investment in public school, to guarantee our children and young people equality in access and success, in a school where everyone learns more and better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u10	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a whole, the proposal of the CFP is the one that best ensures a solution for career progression—and, no, it is not only for teachers—for the full counting of service time in the careers and special bodies of the Public Administration. And the workers would be better served if yesterday it had been approved in its entirety and not only in its paragraph 1. So we've lawyered her for plenary today. It can be seen that paragraph 2 says something as simple as this: « Compliance with the provisions in the previous paragraph is considered to have occurred with the definition of a legal solution to ensure full consideration of the time of service ». So, so much blah, blah, PSD and CDS blah and, after all, don't you follow this? And now, too, paragraph 3? Today they also have an opportunity to give back what was the vote on the CFP proposal. Are you going to do it? It is also interesting to know this because, otherwise, it will become clear as water that PSD and CDS have a speech before the workers but do the opposite in the time of decision and that, after all, its true objective is not to find an expeditious and definitive solution to this problem, it is to make it burn in a soft fire for the benefit of the workers themselves and against the interests of the workers. We also note that the PS rejected a proposal that contained a solution for all public administration workers — all —! , opening a path of balanced realization, in respect of what has already been discussed in collective bargaining and reaffirming what was approved a year ago with the vote of the Socialist Party. The PCP does not give up the struggle, either in the Budget in parliamentary appreciation, either on the street, next to the workers, by defending the full counting of the time of service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u12	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, yesterday, presented himself here as the savior of the teachers, of the civil servants of the Public Administration. The PSD yesterday showed up here saying it was better than the left-wing parliamentary parties. He did and defended teachers better than the government and even managed to defend teachers better than the unions that represent teachers. The PSD presented itself, yesterday, as the vanguard of the defense of the workers of the Public Administration and the rights of teachers. And we, in the light of this statement from the PSD, have called for the PSD to vote on the Left Block proposal, not only that which obliges the Government to negotiate, because that is the obligation of the Government and, if the Government has not complied with it, it will have to comply - but the safeguard, the guarantee that the Government has a reason to negotiate and that, if it does not do so, it is guaranteed to public administration workers 20 % a year to recover their careers, the full recovery of the working time, a decade of the working time that, unlike the other public officials, has not been recovered. But none of this has happened, the mountain has set up a mouse and, therefore, what we want here to appeal to the PSD is to recognize that it made a mistake yesterday and that today I am voting in favour of this proposal from the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u14	Mr Pedro Pimão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are here today discussing this matter of the greatest importance to our education system because of a proposal from the PSD, but above all the best interest in education in Portugal. And a lot has been said and written about this matter. The fact is that we have a responsibility to correct some budgetary injustices that are expressed in this proposal for a State Budget and to see that the Government has been seriously violated by the commitments it has made and entered into in the State Budget for 2018 which were subsequently reinforced by a resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. This proposal from the PSD is therefore necessary. In contrast to what the Government has done, which was to disregard the letter and spirit of the same standard as it included in the State Budget for 2018, it turns out that it is more than relevant to the interest of the teaching class in Portugal to return to the negotiating table and to respect the time of service provided by teachers. Therefore, what we propose with this solution is that this injustice be corrected and that the teaching class and the time of service that they effectively provided is valued because valuing teachers is valuing public school and the importance they assume in the educational performance of our students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, between the arrogance of the government or the appreciation of teachers, we will always be on the side of the appreciation of teachers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u16	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u17	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the beginning of this process which the Government has managed in a confusing and misleading way, I would even propose to disseminate the dossier for the repositioning of special careers. The proposal presented yesterday by the CDS gives the Government a second opportunity to negotiate fairly and effectively with teachers, but also with other special careers, always respecting financial sustainability, which is a critical variable for the evaluation of the CDS. We regret that the parties on the left reject the impact of this negotiation on transparency in accounts, accounts that the CDS has asked for more than a year ago and that today these parties will have a new opportunity to consider favourably. The important thing now is to guarantee these careers but also to all Portuguese people a fair and enforceable negotiation, which is not only a promise and which enables them to be sustained beyond a legislature. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u19	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding these proposals on counting the full time of service of teachers—but not only, but also of all other special careers of the public service—, it is necessary to say or recall that the PS voted favourably a draft resolution presented by the Greens here in the Assembly of the Republic, which was then approved, which determined the full count of service time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u21	It was a draft resolution, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u22	It is certainly a recommendation for the Government to act, and the Socialist Party has clearly considered that it should be counted all the time of service provided, and well. Only that the Socialist Party, at a certain point, made an option: it is no longer on the side of the teachers and all the other professionals of the other special careers to become side by side with the government's theimosia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they did so inconsequentially even with what they said in your parliamentary days, that they were not, in the Assembly of the Republic, spokesmen of the Government but, yes, they considered the interests of the citizens. In fact, this is not particularly true in this particular respect. On the other hand, it is also necessary to highlight the fact that the PSD has been completely unmasked about the direction of vote it had in relation to the proposals submitted and what it had stated yesterday in the Assembly of the Republic here. It is that those who heard yesterday, in the morning, the PSD's speech couldn't imagine that, in the afternoon, I would vote against the proposals that determined the full counting of the time of service, in total inconsistency. So what should citizens conclude from what happened here? That is what the PSD claims, if it does not alter its sense of vote today, is not serious, and the PSD does not really act seriously. The PSD was fully unmasked and, therefore, if you want to act in coherence, you now have the opportunity, in the lawyers that were made, according to what you said yesterday morning, to demonstrate that it is in favour of the full counting of the time of service. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue our work but please continue with consistency and loyalty. That's how the Greens can act. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u23	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we advocate Amendment No 74 - C, referring to Article 36a of the Budget, which aims to hire Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service, with priority for responding to emergency episodes in the context of the 25 medical-surgical emergency services in the country. Accessibility means access to something. However, in the case of deficiencies, in particular, it also means access with normality. For example, social security services are considered accessible, as it is possible for the deaf citizen to apply for services in Portuguese gestal language. However, you will have to wait about two or three weeks until this service is marked, while another person without disabilities simply goes to the counter and is cared for. Is there accessibility? Formally, yes. Is it normal? No, no, no. Therefore, accessibility is limited. The situation is especially relevant when we think about health services. Health centres and hospitals do not have interpreters, although generally they are obliged to do so. So how does a deaf citizen communicate with your doctor and explain how you feel? Either you take a relative who can interpret what you're saying, or you pay your purse to an interpreter, or you'll have a lot of trouble communicating with the doctor, the administrative assistants, nurses, etc. This becomes more serious in medical emergencies where the deaf person does not have the possibility of organizing a hospital trip accompanied by an interpreter. We recall that access to health is a fundamental right for all citizens. Law No. 46 / 2006 prohibits and imposes discrimination on grounds of disability, but there is discrimination as long as there are citizens living outside the newspaper. Worse, this discrimination is part of the State itself, because it does not guarantee equality for all, as its duty is. In the preamble to Decree-Law No 163/2006, we can read that « The promotion of accessibility is a fundamental element in the quality of life of people, being an essential means for the exercise of rights conferred on any member of a democratic society, contributing decisively to a greater strengthening of social ties, to a greater civic participation of all those who integrate it and, consequently, to a growing deepening of solidarity in the social rule of law ». However, the truth is that these diplomas are 2004 and 2006 and these barriers still exist today. After more than 10 years, a deaf person continues to have no accessibility in hospitals, health centers, cabin services, municipal assemblies, libraries, higher education and so on. In short, have steps been taken to improve the living conditions of disabled citizens? Yeah. Are they enough to ensure an independent life? No, no, no. Only inclusion can lead us to a more just society, with equal opportunities for all, only thus preventing the discrimination of the various social groups. The barriers are not only architectural, they are also social, cultural and political. All must have access to the different opportunities that exist, be it culture, spaces, buildings, communications, services, economics and political participation, on an equal footing and, as long as that does not happen, we cannot say that we live in an equal and just society for all citizens. If all this is not yet possible, at least we all have the right to health and decent treatment in our national system. We urgently need Portuguese gestal-language interpreters in the National Health Service, prioritizing the response to emergency episodes in the context of the 25 medical-surgical emergency services in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u25	We're moving on to the second theme, Madeira. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u26	Mr President, it is truly regrettable how the left-wing parties dealt with important issues for Madeira, such as mobility allowance, ferry, lower interest rates and, above all, the new hospital. Some even made no proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u27	PSD didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u28	In Madeira, PS, Left Block and PCP do something, but on the back of the Madeirans, in Lisbon, at the first opportunity, they leave Madeira and hide themselves from the partisan dictates and centralist devices. [[Protests by the member of BE Moisés Ferreira and the Member of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] It is shameful how the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, with the convivence of Maderian Members, joined in this House in a coalition of forces, not in defense of Madeira's interests, not in defense of what is best for Madeira, but against Madeira, plumbar, plumbar! Thanks to management, almost everything remains in the same with regard to these important matters. The Government will continue to refuse to take up the promised financing of 50 % in VAT and to make, indecently, accounts with the alien heritage; it will continue to earn money with Madeira and to prevent the saving of Madeira's families and companies; it will continue to reject the new model of mobility allowance already approved in this House and to assume the costs of the ferry all year round. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madeira and Madeira deserve better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u29	Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last year of the Parliament, it is worth stressing an unusual fact that has crossed it. During the discussions of the State Budget, Madeira's PSD has always put forward proposals on the side of its own bank and today, in this Budget, it is worth stressing the following: 90 % of the proposals submitted by Madeira's PSD had no reception on its own bank. The PSD itself did not approve, did not caress, did not defend Madeira's PSD proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So you need to be credible:
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u31	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u32	We need to be credible, and I don't know how to take Madeira's PSD seriously when it can't even convince its own bench, its own party, that it doesn't accept or defend its proposals. Therefore, what the Madeirans need is not this false will to help Madeira. What the Madeirans need is what the PS has done throughout this legislature : it has defended Madeira, has shown solidarity, has achieved objectives and has shown that it has gradually restored what the PSD has not been able to do in the last four years. That is what we will continue to do, and that is what we promise the Maderians. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u33	I give the floor to Mr Ernesto Ferraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal of the Left Block, presented yesterday, about Madeira's hospital was the one that best guarded Madeira's interests of effectively building a new hospital, a necessary project and already considered of common interest. In particular, I proposed 50 % of this amount. The PS does not seem to want to give in to this need and, as regards the PSD, it seems that it wants to continue to discuss, so that everything remains in it: to make politics at the expense of not carrying out this project. On the other hand, it doesn't move forward and on the other it doesn't want to move forward. Here and there! Therefore, this is a debate to maintain without the work being born. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u35	Again, you have the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Pereira has lost two opportunities. The first was to submit a proposal. The second was to be quiet today, because it really looks like you weren't here yesterday! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] His narrative does not collect because, contrary to what he said, the proposals were received by the PSD and, unfortunately, they did not have any support from the PS bench, which once again proved to be against Madeira and against Madeirans. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u37	You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u38	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, I apologize, but if you have a little patience to listen to me today, I will try to explain again what I have already explained. The cost of financing the Republic has fallen. And it fell because the government had a responsible budgetary policy, because the economy grew,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u39	... because employment was created and because Portugal honored the commitments it had and paid in advance the most expensive part of the loan to the IMF. This reduced the financing costs and these financing costs, which are lower today, can and should be shared with the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u40	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u41	But who signed the current loan contract with the Regional Government of Madeira was the previous government at a fixed rate! So what we are doing here is presenting a proposal to share these benefits with the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u42	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u43	The money is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u44	For Madeira to pay a lower rate, so it will reduce its debt, so it can use the reduction of interest to reduce its debt in a more comfortable way. But that's not enough for the honourable Member! What the honourable Member is asking is that Madeira be financed at a rate below that which the Republic is financing, and that is not fair. Ask to use the gains you have with the reduction of interest to make more spending, and that's not responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u45	The money is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u46	And then, in the end, lie when he says nothing is proposed. That's not true! There is a proposal that is fair,... [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u47	... there is a proposal that benefits the people of Madeira and reduces interest expenditure by 55 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u48	The money is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u49	This is a substantial reduction, it is a reduction of 15 % of the interest paid to PAEF ( Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme ),... [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] ...and you may not accept, but you will have to explain to the Madeirans why you do not accept and you will have to explain to all Portuguese because you want them to make a transfer and finance Madeira at a lower cost than the one the Republic is financing. You'll have to explain why you prefer a hand full of nothing and anything else,... [[PSD protests.]] ... and why it is better to leave here with a proposal that is « something in the form of such». With regard to the central hospital in Madeira, I have already made it very clear that what the government is committed to is to finance 50% of the expenditure. It is not to finance 50% of the expenditure with the new Madeira hospital plus 50% of what is the value of the returned buildings! That would not be fair and would not be balanced. This is not something that can be explained to the Portuguese, it is something that the Madeirans certainly understand! [[PSD protests.]] Solidarity is a right and a duty. If we all know how to carry out, the government will not fail to honour its commitments and duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u50	Let's move on to social security. For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth presenting packages on active ageing, as is now done on the right, after leaving pensioners and pensioners in a situation of poverty. The way a party treats older people is a mark of civilization and we stress that, with this government, the risk of poverty has decreased, especially in the elderly. That is why PS continues and will continue to return income and increase pensions as it has done. It's increased once, it's increased two, it's increased three and now it's going to increase for the fourth time! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The minimum social pension grew almost 10 % and even the pensions of 1000 € grew 3, 5 %. But it is not only the amounts that are concerned, it is also the appreciation of the working time that people have given to their country. the measures already taken in relation to the many long contributing careers: 60 years of age and 46 years of contribution. With the State Budget of 2019, it ends with double penalties for those 60 years of age and at least 40 years of contributions. This is a significant step forward, but it is important to reinforce that we do not call into question the rights of pensioners who do not meet the conditions of this new regime. That would be a complete nonsense. They will, of course, continue to be entitled to the current flexibility regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u52	It's not that obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u53	Once and for all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the 60 / 40 binomium we are now presenting represents a measure of social progress and, as such, must be seen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u54	Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the CFP has already stated that one of the most important marks in this Budget and one of the most important elements of this State budget is the third extraordinary consecutive increase in pensions, inseparable from that which has been the intervention and insistence of the CFP in this matter, which has never been satisfied with the defrosting of pensions and has always understood that it was important to go further and restore the purchasing power lost by pensioners and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]] This measure is indeed very important in this State budget, but it is also important to guarantee more rights to the reformed and in particular to workers and subscribers to the General Pension Fund. It has great meaning and importance for thousands of workers the approval of the PCP proposal, which extends the regime of elimination of the sustainability factor provided for in this Budget to the subscribers of the General Board of Appeals. We defend a true convergence of social protection systems, which deepens the rights of all workers, both the public sector and the private sector, and that it does not leave out the subscribers of the General Pension Fund in the new advance that is achieved in this Budget. The CFP maintains its basic position on the valorization of long-contributory careers and the need to guarantee social justice to those who have worked a full life, and 40 years of contributing careers are a life of work, discounts for social security and wealth production for the country. This is a process that is distant from its conclusion and the PCP will continue to fight to take further the steps that are taken in this Budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u56	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u57	Mr President, yesterday the end of the sustainability factor was approved, the cut of 14, 5 % for the early pensions of those who began to discount up to 20 years, that is, those who are at the age of 60 years of discounts, and it was clear that the current regime is maintained. Having more favourable rules for this group of pensioners does not mean limiting access to early retirement. The proposal of the Block in the specialty yesterday approved had two objectives: to extend these rules also to pensioners of the General Credentials Board and to bring these rules into line with specific schemes. What are we talking about? Rapid wear and tear schemes, such as miners or stone workers, which should not have the application of the sustainability factor, or long-term unemployed who are in the same circumstances as those pensioners and which should not be seen to apply that cut. It was to address these shortcomings that the Block put forward this proposal and it was this proposal that we were able to approve yesterday. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u58	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had the opportunity, once again, in this plenary, to draw attention to the need for public policies to support births.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u61	We also draw attention to the need for this budget to consider measures in this respect, which is not true. That is why the PSD has come forward with a set of proposals specifically to support birth. And what happened? These measures were rejected by the left by the majority supporting the Government. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear that you are constantly saying that you are concerned about the low birth rate, that you are concerned about the consequences that this has of course generated for the sustainability of social security, for our economy and for the generational renewal, when you have on the table positive measures to reverse this situation. And what are you guys doing? You reject them. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you did not just vote against a proposal from the PSD to support birth; you voted against the Portuguese, you voted against families who want to have children and families who want to have more children, and it is those families that you will have to explain. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u62	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS-PP presented a number of proposals on strengthening family allowance for numerous families, which are one of the factions of society with a higher rate of risk of poverty, even with company transfers. The truth is that they have been plunged on the left, but we want to highlight what the CDS has done here: to help the government to implement its Programme, particularly with regard to the informal caregiver, to take care to correct the hypocrisy of the extreme left, which announces to the country something but then does not negotiate with the Government, in order to ensure conditions for informal caregivers. We welcome the adoption of the most basic and urgent measure requested by caregivers, which has to do with the consecration of rest, which is absolutely essential. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u64	Mr Jorge Falcato Simões, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no justice yesterday. After knowing the rejection of the proposal to anticipate the retirement age for disabled workers, my friend Antonio wrote: "Thank you to the Members for condemning me to work until I die." Antonio has a neuromuscular disease. Dir-CL-me: "Not all people with disabilities are Antony." It is true, but it is a fact that most people with disabilities have an early age, not only due to their incapacity but also to the increased effort they have to make to overcome the most diverse barriers daily, from architectural barriers to the attitudinal barriers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u66	Didn't BE trade that with the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u67	Today, the ladies and gentlemen. Members have the opportunity to correct yesterday's mistake. If it doesn't happen, people with disabilities don't give up. Today, they deliver a petition that will force us to discuss this matter again. We hope that justice will be done on that day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u68	BE has forgotten many people. Talk, talk, but forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u69	We moved on to the topic of informal caregivers. Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have advocated to plenary the vote on the proposal from the CFP on informal caregivers. The adoption of these measures is of the greatest importance for the recognition of the role of informal caregivers but, more than recognition, it is fair to admit that it was only possible to arrive here with the fight of informal caregivers. They deserve more, much more! However, we believe that this proposal will allow, for the time being, to implement a public network of support for informal caregivers and people who are cared for. in this sense, the creation of a pilot project will allow to carry out a development program of the network of support to informal caregivers based on public services, which can be generalized throughout the country, ensuring territorial coverage in the various responses and valences we propose. However, the PCP will continue to defend more and better conditions for the difficult role of the informal caregiver through a draft law that is being discussed in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u71	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u72	Mr President, the Left Block incorporated into the budget bill a commitment to strengthening social support and the rest of informal caregivers and caregivers. Yesterday, we voted in favour of a proposal from the PCP of a pilot project for caregivers and a principle, which is already enshrined in the law, of the rest of the caregiver. We plunged part of the CDS proposal, which was worse than it is in the law and which spoke of a 15-day rest when the law already consecrated 90 days. It was an absurd proposal, which was plunged. We know, however, that it is not with a pilot project in a region or with one more statement of a principle that we will solve the problems of caregivers. We need to approve the status of the informal caregiver, who is currently in the specialty. That is why the Left Block presented a bill, to approve the status of the informal caregiver, and that is the way we need to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u73	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, starting with the questions pointed out by the PSD and the CDS parliamentary groups regarding birth and the need to promote family conciliation measures, the proposal presented by the PSD and which advocated for this beginning of plenary refers to daycare, the extension of the social equipment network, and this is a reality in which Portugal stands at European level. We have a daycare coverage rate of about 50 %. In 2004 we had a daycare coverage rate of 23, 5 % and therefore the PARES programme ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) was created at the time. It is natural that in some parts of the country, particularly in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, we need to strengthen this investment, and that is where we are working. It is unfortunate that the current Community framework, when designed, did not consider investment in social equipment a priority, because otherwise we might have managed to correct these gaps in Lisbon and Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any case, we are working on this and the proposal in particular is a proposal whose practical application already exists. Any enterprise may constitute an IPSS ( a particular institution of social solidarity ) and any IPSS may in fact create a daycare and have cooperation agreement with Social Security. More than programmatic proposals, it would have been very important to have created the conditions for this promotion of birth, these promotions and defense of the numerous families that we did not also feel in the numerous families who were beneficiaries of the RSI (social income of insertion), which were the families most affected with the change of the equivalence scale and who no longer had that support for the social income of insertion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Maybe because they're numerous families, but the poorest don't know. Fortunately, we also reverted this in 2016 and managed to get the most numerous families, with fewer resources, to receive support. For the informal caregiver,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u76	... this is a very important issue, which we are working together, taking into account the proposals that are in Parliament. The following must be kept in mind: the informal caregiver exists...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u78	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, the informal caregiver exists because there is a caring person and a primary informal caregiver. That, yes, that is entirely dedicated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u79	You really have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u80	... needs special and particular support, and we cannot generalize almost all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u81	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is saying it is working on the informal caregiver, but it is unfortunate that no one has yet realized what it is doing. The work must be so little, so little, that the results actually cannot be seen. In this regard, I cannot but emphasise that which is the lamentable position of the Left Block, which has always said that it demanded, that the status of informal caregivers should come into force already in the next Budget of 2019, but now negotiates an Budget with the Government, approves a Budget with the Government, leaving the people who need the most at the door of their negotiations and very quickly forgets those who want to be the voice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u83	We're moving on to another topic, the one of the local power. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since 2016 that the late debts of the Central Administration of the public and business sectors have again presented an upward curve, and those who suffer are the companies that, in practice, start to finance the State, with extra financial costs, which take them away from liquidity and competitiveness. Those who suffer are the users of public services, increasingly degraded, also by a non-compliance state. Paying time and time is a basic measure for the dynamisation of the economy and for the so propagated reform of the State. To force the Government to submit a plan which, among other things, leads to a global reduction of at least 30 % of late-year debts, honestly, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not too much to ask a state to be regulated, to be disciplined and to behave as a good person. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u85	For one last intervention in this period of legal debate, Mrs Cecília Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had many times here when the so-called "voting test" was made, which is the time to know whether the votes follow the PS statements, whether the votes follow the PCP's proclamations, and whether the votes follow the many outrages of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u88	I would like to speak of a vote which I think serves as an example of what these four years have been of governance of management and a parliamentary majority of management, which has to do with government promises. During the years of this government, he has repeatedly promised both the Judicial Police, the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), and also the Justice Officers the review of their organic laws. Every year, the government promises to do this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u89	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u90	So, if the government promises, the CDS has decided to set a deadline until March of next year for this review.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u91	Didn't the CDS let that happen in the previous government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u92	Interestingly, all parties, less the PS, agreed with this proposal, which was approved yesterday, which was also reported under the title « Laws of the PJ and the SEF leave PS isolated ». Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a few hours ago, you do not know how - perhaps because of a Mr State Secretary sitting here, watching the votes - the CFP and the Block have changed their minds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u93	That says a lot about your criteria!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u94	The PCP and the Block have changed their minds and left PJ and SEF isolated,... [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] ... because, at the end of the vote, the CDS proposal ended up being — imagine! — plunged, by changing the ideas of the PCP and the Block. Perhaps now, with the repetition of the vote, the honourable Members. Members gain some respect, not only by these forces, but above all by the Portuguese, who need to feel safe. The mark of this government and the majority that supports it has been this: when it touches the sovereign functions of the State, when it touches people and their sense of security, when it touches the fight against crime, you never — but never! — you can say « present». Never! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Always change your mind, always leave for tomorrow, and it's never for today. This is the day to test the vote! in the same way, we have advocated the captivating rule, because since the PCP and the Block are always so outraged by the captivating, there are enough excuses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u95	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u96	All proposals relating to vocational training, health, internal security, defence and justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u98	... and for which the CDS proposed the prohibition of seizures have been plummeted. So now it's the vote test! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u99	On the same subject, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP Parliamentary Group has put forward a number of proposals in this budget aimed at strengthening and improving the capacity to respond to security forces and services. [[Ah, yes!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u101	We have submitted proposals for the hiring of professionals for all forces and security services — PSP ( Public Security Police ), GNR ( Republican National Guard ), Maritime Police, SEF, Judicial Police — and for the control and strengthening of compliance with the law on the programming of force equipment and security services. They are serious proposals and we present them as a serious contribution for this budget to respond to these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u102	They're serious, they're serious! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u103	Of course, in these areas we have maintained the same criterion as we have had in all the others: we have voted in favour of proposals that are consistent with ours and we do not embark on the processes of demagogy of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u104	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u105	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u106	In fact, Mr President, I must say that for a moment there must have been some confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u107	But you have to say quickly, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u108	It seems that the PSD and the CDS had proposed to revise the organic laws of the Judicial Police and other forces and other security services in the four years they were in the government and it is strange that they now have to review organic laws, when they have taken on this commitment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u109	Having concluded the discussion of the rules of law, we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies Idália Salvador Serrão, Joaquim Barreto e Porfirio Silva, from PS, and Álvaro Batista, Emídio Guerreiro, Feliciano Barreiras Duarte and Rubina Berardo, from PSD, performing 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with Article 4. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 544 - C of the PSD which amends paragraph 13 of this article of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote on Article 4 ( 13 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 312 - C of the CDS-PP, for the addition of Article 4. o-C — Prohibition of captivating in the areas of health, defense, internal security and justice. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 100 - C, submitted by the Left Block, on the addition of Article 8. o -A — Suspension of National Defence Day. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP were rejected, votes against BE and The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us vote on proposal 841 - C from the Left Block, adding an article 27. o -A — Full counting of service time for repositioning and progression purposes. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on proposal 743 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, to add an article 28. o -A — Review of statutory and organic laws. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u110	Did the Left Block and the PCP change their sense of vote? Oh, my God! Someone took a bunch of ears!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u111	Mrs. Members, let us turn to proposal 466 - C of the CFP, for the addition of Article 30. o -A — Progress in career, for which the unbundled vote of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 was requested. Let us therefore begin by voting Article 30 ( 1 ). o -A. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on paragraph 2 of the same article. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on paragraph 3. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 74 - C of the NAP, adding Article 36. o -A - Contraction of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 604 - C by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, to add an article 53. o -A — Application of Organic Law No 2 / 2013 of 2 September to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u112	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u113	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u114	Mr President, I would ask you to repeat this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u115	Mrs. Members, let us then repeat the vote on the proposal 604 - C, tabled by the Members of the PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, to add an article 53. o -A — Application of Organic Law No 2 / 2013 of 2 September to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u116	The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 518 - C, tabled by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, to add article 53. o-B — Repristinatory rule. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u117	There has been no punishment in this vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u118	We are now voting on proposal 691 - C of the PS for the addition of Article 54. o-B — Aid under the legalization of the American neighborhood of Santa Rita. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to Article 60. o — Madeira Central Hospital. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 554 - C submitted by the PSD to replace this article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[The PS voted against!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u119	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 39 - C, tabled by the CFP, amending Article 60. o. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 276 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, amending Article 60. o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u120	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u121	Mr President, we are in the middle of the vote, but please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u122	Mr. President, I'm sorry, you're absolutely right. Moreover, the means of voting is only exceptional, but that is precisely why. It is that there has been a delay here and at this point we do not have the script to which we have returned, so I ask for the suspension of the votes for one minute to have the script in our possession and we can consciously exercise our vote. I'm sorry to interrupt the votes, but that's what I was asking for. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u123	We shall vote on proposal 574 - C of the BE amending Article 60. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken, with votes in favour of the PS and BE, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 60 shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. Mrs. Helena Roseta asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u124	Mr President, we have some difficulty accompanying these votes. We are with the script that is in the services, at RA @ Net, and not always what the Bureau is saying confers with what is in the script. That is our difficulty. If, when you quote the article, Mr President, you can say your point, we will all be following the votes more effectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u125	Madam Member, it happens that we often do not have the heading of the articles here, especially in the amendments that are made during the sitting, and therefore, although I understand the problem of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u126	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u127	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u128	Mr President, on this Rule 60. What we have just voted for, Parliament has just adopted two proposals, 39-C and 574-C, one from the PCP and the other from the Block, which are, I would say, contradictory—and this is the nicest word I can use. Sometimes there are amendments that may be found in final drafting, but, in this case, the PCP proposal that we have approved, for example, does not guarantee 50% of public funding for the Madeira Central Hospital and the 574 - C proposal from the Left Block, has expressly foreseen that there is a 50% participation by the State, for the Madeira Central Hospital — with values and everything! Mr President, in view of this incongruence of the plenary, I ask what is the best reading you do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u129	My interpretation is that there is no incongruence. in this case, what needs to be in the final draft is 50 % because that is what is concrete and that goes beyond the previous situation. We shall continue with the votes. Article 61 is hereby followed. o — Interest charges under the loan of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We shall vote on Article 61 ( 1 ). o. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and against the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 280 - C1, tabled by the CFP, amending Article 61 ( 2 ). o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 316 - C of the CDS-PP amending Article 61 ( 2 ). o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 418 - C1 submitted by BE, amending Article 61 ( 2 ). o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 555 - C1 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 61 ( 2 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 61 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 280 - C2, submitted by the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u130	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u131	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u132	Mr President, I did not care that this was the proposal of the approved CFP and that the others were damaged, but as there are three elimination proposals, they must be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u133	Let us therefore vote together on proposals 280 - C2, of the PCP, 418 - C2, of the BE, and 555 - C2, of the PSD, all eliminating Article 61 ( 3 ). o. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 61 ( 3 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. o. We shall vote on Article 61 ( 4 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to Article 64. o — Amounts of participation by local authorities in State taxes. We shall vote on Article 64 ( a ) ( 1 ). o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote together on points ( b ), ( c ) and on Article 64 ( 1 ). o. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 64 ( 2 ) shall follow. o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 64 ( 3 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We voted for Article 64 ( 4 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 64 ( 5 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 64 ( 6 ) shall follow. o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 64 ( 7 ). o. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS and abstentions of BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 64 ( 8 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall then vote on Article 64 ( 9 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote on proposal 523 - C, tabled by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, adding Article 64 ( 10 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, PCP and Les Verdes, votes in favour of CDS-PP and PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa and the abstention of the PAN.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 345 - C of the BE, adding a Rule 65. o -A— Eighth amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens, with votes in favour of BE and with abstention from the NAP.]] Let us vote on proposal 84 - C of the BE, which eliminates Article 70. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 70. o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall then vote on Article 72 ( 1 ). o — Reduction of late payments. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and with abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We now vote on Article 72 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The joint vote on Article 72 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) shall follow. o. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 292 - C of the CFP amending Article 73 ( 1 ). o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 73 ( 1 ) shall be adversely affected. o. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 708 - C of the PS for the addition of a new paragraph 2 to Article 73. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall jointly vote on Article 73 ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ), ( 6 ), ( 7 ) and ( 8 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We are now voting on proposal 97 - C of the BE, adding Article 73. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall then vote on Article 74 ( 1 ). o — Efficiency in municipal or intermunicipal systems. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 74 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 288 - C of the CFP, adding Article 74 ( 3 ). o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Rule 75. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 776 - C of the PS, adding Article 75 ( 8 ) to Article 75 ( 8 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall then vote on proposal 535 - C from the CDS-PP, adding an article 75. o -A — Extinction of public-private partnerships in municipalities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We are now voting on proposal 864 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 75. o -A — Extinction of public-private partnerships in the municipal sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 79 ( 1 ). o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall jointly vote on points ( a), ( b ) and ( c ) of paragraph 2, the body of paragraph 2 and Article 79 ( 3 ). o. [[The vote was put to the vote and the votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall then vote on Article 83. o — Settlement of Polis companies. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 289 - C of the CFP amending Article 86. o — Acquisition of leased goods. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on Article 86. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on Article 87 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on Article 87 ( 3 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote on Article 87 ( 4 ) shall follow. o. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on Article 88 ( 1 ). o — Debts resulting from the recovery of areas and equipment affected by fires or other exceptional circumstances. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 88 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the CDS-PP were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 88 ( 3 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal 794 - C of the PS, adding an article 88. o -A — Amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the CFP, the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on proposal 20 - C, submitted by BE, in the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 90. o — The scheme for the flexibility of the age of access to the pension. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on proposal 90 - C, tabled by the CFP, adding Article 90 ( 3 ). o — The scheme for the flexibility of the age of access to the pension. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 837 - C, submitted by the PS, adding Article 90 ( 3 ). o — The scheme for the flexibility of the age of access to the pension. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 20 - C, submitted by BE, where paragraph 4 is added to Article 90. o — The scheme for the flexibility of the age of access to the pension. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 20 - C, submitted by BE, where paragraph 5 is added to Article 90. o — The scheme for the flexibility of the age of access to the pension. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on proposal 484 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 90. o -A - Age of reform for disabled workers. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 244 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part where a new paragraph 2 is added to Article 94. o — Informal caregivers. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 244 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part where a new paragraph 3 is added to Article 94. o — Informal caregivers. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 674 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, adding an article 94 -A — Rest of the informal caregiver. At the request of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall break the vote and we shall begin by voting paragraph 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote together on paragraphs 2 and 3 of proposal 674 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the BE and the PAN and votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens were adopted.]] We shall vote on proposal 863 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add a new Article 106. o-B — Kindergartens and kindergartens in business units. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 623 - C, submitted by the PSD, on the addition of Article 110. -A— Late payments. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and PAN.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the voting period. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u134	Mr President, I would like to make an amendment to our vote on a proposal, if you will excuse me.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u135	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u136	Mr President, in proposal 316 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, on Article 61. the, on the financing of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the meaning of the vote of the PSD is in favour, which changes the final outcome of the vote, but in order to defend the interests of Madeira, the PSD believes that this should be its point of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u137	Mr, there is no need for consideration. Therefore, the result of the vote is changed and the proposal, now referred to, has been adopted. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda. We will move on to point 3 — continuation of the discussion on the speciality of the State budget for 2019. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting registration. [[Pause.]] [[However, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u138	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for taking your seats to start your work again, applying the same request to you. Members of the Government, so as soon as possible, we can work. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we will resume the debate in the speciality of the State budget for 2019, starting with Article 137. o — Support for fire-affected companies, which has aggregated proposals 227 - C, submitted by the CFP, and 618 - C, submitted by the NAP. Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, to whom I give the floor, re-enquiring Mr. Members who create conditions for us to be able to hear the speech of the honourable Member. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last August there was a violent fire in Monchique's greenhouse and municipality, which spread to the neighbouring councils of Silves, Portimão and Odemira. It burned an extensive area, there were dozens of wounded, more than 50 homes were totally or partially destroyed, economic activities were affected and orchards, olive trees and other trees were burned. So great are the losses that have affected people and businesses and the suffering is even greater when, on the one hand, part of the affected population has limited resources — they are elderly, retired and with low pensions — and on the other hand, bureaucracy and difficulties have been much in access to support and subsidies. The Left Block presents two proposals: on the one hand, the exceptionality of Monchique fires should be recognised, establishing criteria identical to those of the fires that took place in June and October 2017, and on the other hand victims should be exempt from taxation as regards the support they received. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u140	With no further inscriptions, we turn to the discussion of Article 138. the — Implementation of funds in the forest area, to which the proposals 367 - C, submitted by the PCP, 378 - C, submitted by BE, 420 - C, submitted by BE, 504 - C, submitted by BE and 581 - C, presented by the CDS-PP. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u141	Mr. President and Mr. Members: In order to ensure the dual objective of contributing to food sovereignty and to defend the rural world, structural responses are needed to defend family agriculture. in this sense, the PCP, aware of the difficulties faced by Portuguese small and medium-sized farmers, comes, within the framework of the State budget, to present a set of proposals that respond to their needs. Thus, the CFP proposed for this State budget a programme to enhance family and rural agriculture, the increase in subsidies for the use of colourful and marked gas oil of 0, 06 € / l up to 2000 l and the support for costs with electricity. It is that the status without its financial component is no less than good words. We also proposed the strengthening of the integrated programme of forest protection against fires and promotion of regional development; a manual of procedures for post-fire situations; the implementation of the national pest monitoring network in Portuguese forest; support for the victims of the Leslie storm of 13 October; technical training of agricultural associations and confederations; the exemption of the IMI for the baldiums; and also the strengthening of the permanent staff and resources framework for the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and Animal. Family agriculture is of strategic importance for national production, food quality and sovereignty, for the harmonious occupation of the territory, for the protection of the environment, forest and the rural world and for economic and social cohesion in vast regions of the country. Now you will see who is firmly committed to defending family agriculture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u142	Let us turn to the debate on Article 146. o — Interior Valuation Programme. Mr. Manuel Frexes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is increasingly a deeply unequal country. It's with immense criminality and great sense of revolt that I say so. Today, we are a two-speed country, with an increasingly unpopulated interior, aged and abandoned in counterpoint to two increasingly populous, concentric and rich metropolitan areas. Inequalities are accentuated every day. They are inequalities in access to wealth, good and services, inequalities in opportunities. We believe that the country needs an integrated, long-range action plan with drastic and deep measures that can reverse the trend of accelerated impoverishment of 75 % of our territory. We believe in the creation of a statute for low-density territories, which covers, in the long term, fiscal measures friendly to the interior with the needs of public and private investment, the creation of employment and the establishment of people, placing on the deconcentration of services and the decentralization of tasks. This path, which we consider to be a national design, requires a broad and committed consensus from all. I believe that we dispense more announcements and diagnoses, façade policies or reliable conversation and accountability measures, beginning with the mission unit and ending up in the Phantom Secretary of State — although my personal appreciation of the Secretary of State — that nothing solves and only fosters disbelief and discouragement over what has to be done. This is a great national issue that has to be taken seriously. We know that no State budget can solve this situation, given the enormous dimension of the problem, but positive and encouraging signs can be given in the right sense, without compromising the balance of public accounts. This is what the PSD has done with a great sense of responsibility. We are presenting basic measures, such as the measures in which we call for investment of large projects preferably for the poorest regions of the country, together with a framework of exclusive Community funds for the same regions and the installation of these public services sites to be created. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to fix people in the interior and, among the various measures, we point to an Erasmus programme for the interior and the significant strengthening of scholarships for higher education institutions based in the most disadvantaged regions. These and many other proposals, based on the State budget, define our commitment, our purpose and our commitment. Because the interior is also Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u144	Mr Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Pointing out these three years of government, which have brought hope and confidence, also point out the good results in the recovery of the economy, with the firm conviction that we must continue the way to a better country and a more cohesive Portugal. I would also like to point out that even today the reopening of the social security contact centre, which the PSD/CDS-PP government has closed. This is a significant measure that I call upon to mark the difference between those who speak and those who do. The Government of the Socialist Party is in favour of the people, for the territory and for territorial cohesion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that this strategy for economic growth and job creation must continue. As far as territorial cohesion is concerned, we have, in fact, several measures at various levels in this State budget, in particular in the uptake of investment which creates jobs and sets people; in the reduction of the costs of the business context, for example at the cost of tolls; in the strengthening of the creation of business spaces and shops of the citizen; in the attraction of people who emigrated to our territory through the Regressar Programme; in the qualification of our territory and in the reform of the forest, mostly located inside; in the investment in rail; in the strengthening of investment in health and education. We have a whole programme, and not a one-sided measure, which enhances the interior and strengthens our economic and social fabric. On the contrary, and although I note that I have presented some measures in this State budget, we see that the PSD — I regret to report — may not have had time to see the other programmes. For example, as regards the specific operational programme for the interior, I have to say that the measures referred to here are in our Internal Assessment Programme, in particular with regard to the agenda for cross-border cooperation and a special approach, of positive discrimination, in strengthening the funds to be applied in these regions. Also at the level of the Internal Territories Support Programme, to another extent, 2.68, which provides EUR 1700 million to support business investment within the incentive system, alluding to the need for an operational programme for the interior, passes a sponge on everything that exists, saying that « It will not be good, because it has not been done for us». Well, we can only regret this! I also regret that, with regard to public services for the interior, it is said that the Secretary of State for the Valorisation of the interior is not important. But I am glad that Mr President of the PSD, who was here yesterday in Castelo Branco, acknowledged that the creation of the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior is an important measure, despite the regrettable various events of the Member States. PSD members elected by the White Castle district, I am sorry. I would also like to add that, in this State budget, there is another measure that they like to ignore. It is that there are specific incentives for the mobility of public servants for the interior regions that PSD and CDS ignore because everything that is not of them does not matter at all. But we are strengthening these measures that can make the difference on the ground. I conclude by saying that the CDS chose to bring back to this Budget the discussion on tax status for the interior. in this discussion we reported that many of the measures are not technically substantiated, have no aggregate value. As far as this goes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they would do well to look better at our measures, as many of them are already envisaged. We are all responsible for continuing to pursue the path of social and territorial cohesion, for the benefit of the Portuguese and for the benefit of the Portuguese of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u147	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 150. o. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: With this proposal, the Socialist Party intends to extend the good practices of local security contracts, in particular the local security contract of Serpa, to other municipalities that present atypical flows of emigration associated with seasonal work. This is intended to strengthen the prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular for the purpose of labour exploitation, in the final framework of the MAI Municipal and Mai Citizen Programme. Data show that, in European terms, this practice is increasing and that victims have difficulty in leaving a situation because of fear of retaliating traffic networks and afraid of being deported. Men are the main victims, but there are also women and children who are exploited in areas such as agriculture, construction and fisheries. Therefore, the articulation with the municipalities and with the Human Traffic Observatory, within the framework of the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination— Portugal + Equal, is essential. This proximity strategy can greatly contribute to the timely prevention of traffic situations, with a view to its early detection and irradiation. I cannot fail to mention the recent campaign launched by the Government on 18 October, «You could be yourself», with a view to preventing and combating these new forms of slavery in modern times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u149	We now turn to the debate in Article 158. the — Plan of intervention in the Fortaleza de Peniche, with the aggregation of proposals 223 - C, submitted by the PCP, and 445 - C, presented by the Block of Left. Mr Jorge Campos, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention in this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Left Block presents three amendments to Article 158. o. Firstly, the reactivation of the ProMuseus Programme, which was suspended by the right-wing government and which left in serious difficulty the museums not dependent on the central administration. On the other hand, support for cinemas, art and essays, which begin, in fact, to impose themselves a little over the country and which make a decisive contribution to the creation of a film audience, which naturally has to do with visual literature. Finally, we ask for additional funding for the National Archive of Images in Movement ( ANIM ), in order to safeguard an invaluable heritage, that of the moving images, notably the RTP Archive. What we propose is reasonable, are measures to strengthen the public service of culture, in the conviction that there are measures that must be taken already in order to safeguard the common heritage of the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u151	For an intervention on this point, Mrs Carla Sousa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Protecting, valuing and qualifying cultural heritage have been key words in the programmatic actions of this government. These are tasks that require constant attention and a budget that allow not only to reverse the degradation to which the cultural heritage has been voted in the period of PSD / CDS-PP governance, but also to enable the training of projects and partnerships that develop museum policies, such as the Peniche Resistance Museum. It is in this perspective that we have worked over these three years and to which we will continue in 2019, strengthening by 20 %, compared to 2018, the budget of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage and Regional Directions of Culture, a growth consistent with the management and programming needs of national museums and monuments. We are aware that it is necessary to persist in the work of valorization and qualification of the Portuguese Network of Museums, making the decentralization of resources more effective and the promotion of good museological practices. We therefore welcome the emergence of proposals that seek to reactivate the ProMuseus Programme. It is an important financial support that contributes to the modernization and qualification of the Portuguese museums not dependent on the central administration, which allows the improvement of the conditions for preserving the collections and cooperation between museums. We welcome the proposals and see them as relevant. Finally, I would like to say that we must not fail to say that, in our view, the constraints that meet the ANIM are not essentially due to the allocation but rather to the need to review the management model which guarantees the autonomy of the structure, a proposal which is currently being studied by the Minister of Culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u153	We move on to the discussion of Article 159. the — Freeness of school textbooks, to which proposals 15 - C, submitted by the Greens, 38 - C, submitted by the PCP, and 41 - C, submitted by the Left Block. The first intervention is for Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PSD aims, in order to promote general education, to introduce the condition of resources, thus ensuring that 90 % of students have access to school textbooks. This measure does not only describe students according to the choice of educational projects as promoting real equity and equal opportunities. Despite the lack of employees in public schools, the lack of technicians to support students with specific needs, despite obsolete computer equipment, the application of the measure of the freeness of school textbooks is an instrument to make Portugal more fair and supportive. However, the proposal made by the Government is not fair, as it places on equal terms family members who benefit from school social action and family members from higher income levels. The extent to which the Government proposes does not promote equal opportunities, because it does not invest in complementary means in schools and also maintains partial and symbolic support to those who benefit from school social action, that is, it does not mitigate the socioeconomic conditions of families and therefore maintains and aggravates social inequalities, which unfortunately conditions the educational success of students. It is the correction of this injustice that the PSD wants. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u155	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP, then has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the marks of the CFP in these last State budgets is the existence of free school textbooks, a measure that now knows its enlargement to 12. the year, beginning to cover all compulsory education. It is an important step forward to ensure the universality of public school and its effective freeness. by covering more than one million students who attend the public network, this is a measure that translates into a savings of about 1600 € per student, over the 12 years of schooling. The CFP also presents other measures that contribute to the relief of the costs of students and their families, such as participation in school material, within the framework of social action at school, in 14 €, 12 € and 10 € for steps A, B and C respectively. Another proposal goes through the allocation of funds for the pedagogical operation, for each room of 1. the cycle, intended for the acquisition of equipment and materials, with a view to providing resources for the realization of educational and socio-educational activities. In the chapter of improving the teaching and learning process we want to take further the reduction of the number of students per class in a double sense. First of all, start reducing the number of students in secondary school classes, namely in 10. the year, but opening up the possibility that this will be done also in the 11th. o and 12. years. Secondly, we want to deepen the reduction in the number of students already started in the remaining years of schooling. Finally, the CFP presents a proposal to carry out an intervention plan in schools protected by the Ministry of Education, with the construction and requalification of schools, giving priority to the cases considered most urgent. In addition, we propose that at the end of all works carried out by Parque Escolar, EPE, the right of ownership be transferred to the Ministry of Education and the termination of that company. These are proposals that the CFP considers essential to improve access to education and the right of frequency of all students in public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u157	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government says it fulfills the Constitution, offering school textbooks to rich and poor without distinction. No distinction, sirs. Members and Mr. Secretary of State? It's a rhetorical question. No, there is a distinction: only state school students are, for the PS, for the Block and for the PCP, under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u159	Exactly! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u160	The change of ideological fundamentalism, these parties impose on parents, who financially strive to have their children in a private school, because they think that this is better for their children, the negative discrimination of having to pay school textbooks, unlike all the others. In essence, this government punishes parents for not putting their children in public school and, preferably, in the school of the postal code of their area of residence. In 2016 and 2017, the CDS expressed its reservations regarding this measure. But if the government understands that the program of free school textbooks is for everyone, because it is even for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u161	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u162	For everyone in public school, for everyone in private school, for everyone in regular education and for everyone in vocational education. And since we're talking about this today, I'd like to remind the ladies. Government members who have an invoice to pay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u163	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u164	... from this year's program to independent bookkeepers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u165	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u166	... that they are suffocated and that they are actually responsible for financing a public policy this year that you boast so much. So before they announce the measures, before they extend to an amount that will reach EUR 100 million, it is good to make sure that they have the money and that they have the processes to pay them, not to be the private ones, after all, to pay public policy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u167	The next intervention, still at this point, is by Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the freeness of school textbooks during compulsory schooling is one of the most important measures to defend public school and the proof is that it motivates, here, both the defense of private school by the CDS, as well as an intervention by the PSD, outraged, again, by the fact that the State treats equally poor students and rich students.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u169	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u170	These are two notes of two signs that we are on the right path, defense of the public school. We therefore present some more projects that we consider essential, and two of them correspond to resolutions adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. One of them is a project for the universalization of public school, whether by construction, where it does not exist—in particular in secondary education—or by the rehabilitation of so many schools that still need works. So many parliamentary groups have presented in this House so many resolutions, that what we now propose is a timing of these interventions, which we all think are so important to public school. The second step is the strengthening of the number of non-teachers, the revision of the portfolio of ratios, which has already been approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, and which will now have to have budgetary translation. Another measure is aimed at correcting an injustice, through the repetition of an extraordinary competition to link teachers from public artistic schools. There was one last year that did not allow all the teachers to be bound. We just want Parliament to have zero tolerance for precariousness in public artistic schools. We are again presenting another measure, which solves a problem: the public management of canteens. There is also a last project to reverse one of the last remains of the troica in public school: the decrease in the number of students per class, also in secondary school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u171	Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government and the Socialist Party present in this debate several proposals relevant to quality education, and for everyone, that the country needs. Other parties of the majority also put forward proposals that compete in the same direction and that we welcome. I stress, of course, the substantial extension of the free school manual programme, respecting the constitutional guidelines applicable to compulsory education, not following those who confuse the social rule of law with some merely welfare policies. I also stress the reduction in the number of students per class, which should continue, in line with what we have been doing, gradually and respecting the pedagogical continuity of the classes. I also stress the continuation of the investment in the generalization of preschool education, from the age of 3, such an important factor to promote equality in educational success throughout the school course. The PS also presents an important proposal for vocational education, whose appreciation has deserved, and well, a great commitment from the Government. It is not easy, but we are correcting the disillusionment of the former Government towards vocational education, the former Government, which has not taken care of programming the sustainability of this type of education. The proposal presented by the PS aims to ensure that all vocational education, from then on in public schools, but also in private schools, has the instruments of financing appropriate to its mission, because this is necessary to continue working in the enhancement of vocational education as a quality response to people and to the needs of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u173	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very quickly about the proposals that are on the table, regarding the freeness of school textbooks, and to highlight here the fact that PSD and CDS want, through their positions, that the generality of Portuguese families continues to pay, per year, 200 €, 300 €, 400 € for their children's school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u175	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u176	The Greens defend the freeness of school textbooks. Not at all, if you and the ladies. Members should tell your European political families that Portuguese families pay €200, €300 or €400 per year for their children's school textbooks, they will keep their mouths open! In general countries, these school textbooks are not paid! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a solution that is quite tested and, apart from being tested, it is absolutely fair. It is absolutely fair that in public school school textbooks are free of charge. On the other hand, I would like to point out a proposal from the Greens regarding the increase in rooms for preschool. Universalizing access to pre-school education is a goal that we have and, as we have this objective, we make a concrete proposal for this generalization and universalization to continue to take place, in particular in order to effectively welcome children from 3 years of age. I would also like to point out another proposal which the Greens put forward, with regard to the progressive solution we have taken, at the various levels of education, to reduce the number of students per class. It is a matter by which The Greens have fought, in order to create better learning conditions in our classrooms, by performing better learning, better and more effective activities directed to students. in this sense, in the different degrees of teaching, we have fought to reverse what PSD and CDS imposed, which was the increase of the number of students per class, in order to fire teachers in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u178	We propose the continuity of the programming of the reduction of the number of students per class. On the other hand, and even to conclude, I would also like to stress that, with regard to the school in particular, we have also introduced measures to promote the use of bicycles. in this State budget, The Greens have several proposals to promote alternative transport, where we also include active mobility. Regarding the school, in particular, what we propose is that, in school insurance, coverage of the use of bicycles in the pendulum movements of students, from home to school and from school to home should also be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u179	To conclude the discussion of this article, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I point out the freeness of school textbooks, touching on some of the points that have been raised, leaving three brief notes. First note: what the Government is doing, through this State budget, is ensuring the fulfilment of compulsory education, exactly in accordance with the terms laid down in the Constitution. It is up to the State to create a public network to assume its commitment, to guarantee universality, compulsoryness and freeness. It is up to the State to guarantee this public network, doing as it does with all the school equipment and respecting the freedom of those who choose not to have their children in public school. The school manual is no different from the back, from the table, from the chair, from other materials that are used in school. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And, therefore, the rich do not take the chair to school and the poor have it in school; the rich do not have a reduced class and the poor an increased class. It's the same for everyone, because it's part of the school equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: there is no discrimination based on being a public school or being a private school, so that, in private schools, covered by public funding and with association contracts, students are also covered by the free of charge of school textbooks. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u181	First they were against free school textbooks, now they want free manuals in private!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u182	So what is being done here is only to comply with the free of charge of public education provided for in the Constitution, and to relieve this enormous burden of families « in September each month». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u183	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the debate in Rule 160. o — Value of propines in public higher education institutions, and of proposals 3 - C, of the PCP, 150 - C, of the Left Block, 534 - C, of the CDS-PP, 761 - C, of the Socialist Party, 49 - C, of the Left Block, 634 - C, of the PAN, 31 - C, of the PCP, 533 - C, of the CDS-PP, and 899 - C, of the PSD. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, this State budget takes a historic step: it reduces the value of the tip by about 20 %. We have therefore broken down with the inevitability that PS, PSD and CDS have sold to students for more than 20 years, and we have managed to ensure that we fight against the value of the propines, which is the highest in the European Union and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u185	The false dichotomy, created a month ago by PSD and CDS, about reducing propins or strengthening social action is the way these two parties found to escape the debate. They cannot accept the idea of a universal, universalist and solidarity state. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, yes, it is possible to combat the value of propines and strengthen social action, two of the inevitables that PSD and CDS sold to students for years. In fact, the PSD, which now presents itself as the great advocate of social stock exchanges, last year, when it was already opposed, voted against a proposal from the Left Block, in the discussion of the State budget, which guarantees to increase the number of social stock exchanges. Pure hypocrisy, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! The CDS now says « well, it invests in university residences», but when it was government, it withdrew from the Community funds the possibility of using money from university residences. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, pure political hypocrisy! They only remembered social action mechanisms the day the Left Block fell down its edges. The Block presents itself to this debate with the commitment of always: to have a maximum ceiling of propinas for masters and doctorates; to increase the number of social action pockets; to table fees and emoluments; and to ensure investment in residences in higher education institutions with positive budget balances. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u186	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a good budget in the area of higher education, science and technology. In addition to considering the proposal that has come to this Parliament through the government, this is a budget that invests in science and technology and gives priority to knowledge as a way to qualify our country and to make it more competitive. We started the debate yesterday in the specialty and now we have some proposals that can improve this budget. We would like, of course, to highlight a proposal made by the Government so that the deduction, at the IRS headquarters, for families who have children to study inside, could be increased to the 1000 € per year, proposed, which the Socialist Party will move that it may also be extended to island students, Azores and Madeira. We put forward this proposal, because we understand that it is one of the most fundamental justices that territorial cohesion, territorial continuity is also promoted by this way. We also have a proposal within the framework of the + Superior Programme, which supports with a scholarship worth € 1500 the most needy students in our country and promotes the fight against school failure, replacing the Retomar Programme, which did not meet its objectives. But it goes further: it also promotes territorial cohesion, encouraging students to attend higher education in low population density territories. Now, the Socialist Party, by the hands of the Members also linked to Socialist Youth, presents in this House a proposal for this scholarship to be increased by €200, which will provide additional assistance to families. It seems that now the right has remembered that there is a problem in the accommodation of university students.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u189	And if this problem exists today is also because the country was able to overcome the crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u191	...but we know that this would not happen if we had continued to follow the strategy that you wanted to follow for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u192	Through the reversal of the strategy that this government has played after 2015, there can be economic growth today, which also brings problems, and causes problems, in particular, in the housing of higher education students. But if this problem exists, we have to answer it. That is why we value, and we see with very good eyes, the proposal that was made by the Communist Party of Portugal, so that the supplement of accommodation for scholarship students who do not have a vacancy in social action residences is increased by about 40 €, thus helping those who have less incomes to have access to housing, eliminating one of the main problems that exists today in our country, which is the lack of accommodation for these students. This path certainly does not solve all problems, but it helps. As it helped last year, on the initiative of the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the fact that it is possible today to deduct, within IRS, 200 € of the value that families spend with students moving outside their usual residence. But as it is fundamental, and is present in this year's budget, it is the decrease in the value of the tip by about 200 €. This change, which is historic, makes the difference in the life of thousands of Portuguese families and, fundamentally, makes the difference in families that have less incomes, in which they have the most difficulty in keeping their younger elements to study in higher education. It does not help the PSD now come to shake ghosts that this reduction in the value of the tip will cause more students to stay out of the school social action system. The government has already said so and we also say that no student will be out of the school social action system because of the reduction in the value of the tip. To make this clear, we also put forward a proposal that will ensure that this amendment has no impact on the calculation of the eligibility threshold for the award of scholarships. But the real reason why the PSD now shakes this ghost is the fact that it is against this reduction in the value of the tip. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u193	And they illustrate it well by presenting a proposal to delete this article. They are against, and this is well mirrored in the policies adopted by the previous government, because they are against the democratization of higher education, because they are against a vision that allows all Portuguese to study in higher education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u194	That's not our vision! We believe in higher education as a democratic space, such as the other levels of education. We are still far from reaching this desire, but this is a way we want to continue. We know that in order to do so, we must do so in this Parliament on the left. That's what we've done over these three years. That is the way that has guaranteed these advances, that is the way that has guaranteed a more democratic higher education, and that is the way we want to continue to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u195	You have the floor now, Mrs. Angela Moreira, from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP presents proposals to ensure better frequency conditions for higher education students, relieving the burdens on families, and on the way to the freeness that the CFP has always defended. In addition to the reduction of propines, the PCP proposes the maintenance of the referent of the value of the tip collected in the spring of 2018 / 2019 for the purpose of calculating the allocation and definition of the amount of scholarships allocated to higher education students, ensuring that, with this reduction, no student ceases to be entitled to the scholarship or sees its value diminished. We put forward a proposal not to increase student charges, ensuring that there are no increases in rates and emoluments charged in higher education institutions. Fruit of the PCP initiative, Law No. 36 / 2018 provides for the retraining and construction of university student residences, to be started in 2019. With no provision of money in the budget of the State for the implementation of the legislation, the CFP proposes to double the amount announced by the Government to increase the planned investment through the public management of real estate funds for the requalification and construction of residences, ensuring a wider response already in 2019. The PCP, aware of the urgency and the need for more immediate responses to the problem of lack of accommodation in higher education, presents a proposal that provides for the increase of the monthly value of the housing supplement to all students displaced pocket students who have not obtained place in residence, although they have applied. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u197	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government and the parties that support it have chosen to forget the most serious problem affecting students in higher education: student housing and the lack of homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u199	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u200	I recall that residences serve only 12 % of the more than 100 000 students displaced in Portugal. And in four years, on this subject, we had only announcements, propaganda, a line that never ceased to be a line of the State budget and a plan that, moreover, has never gone through a plan itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u201	All right! [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u202	Instead, they chose to reduce about 20 € per month to all students who paid the maximum tip, including those who could perfectly continue to pay that value, and chose not to support those who needed the most help for student accommodation. The reduction of the tip will make thousands of students lose the right to their scholarship.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u203	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u204	It's a lie! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u205	Those who really needed support have nothing to present: 0 € for the construction of residences and maintenance, in the proposed government law, of the value of the housing complement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u206	Well remembered! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u207	This measure to reduce the tip, as noted by the unsuspecting Marçal Grilo, is a very unfair measure, because it comes to penalise those who have the least, i.e. the most disadvantaged, and favor those who have the most. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u208	Even lying no one believes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u209	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, a fair country, a just society, a developed country must create conditions for the sport of all citizens. But it is of particular justice that the State looks particularly at citizens who have a disability condition and, in particular, within these, those who are athletes of high competition. The initial proposal for the State Budget for 2019 respects and advances in these areas which I will list, notably by the National Programme of Sport for All (PNDpT), which values inclusion, equality and interiority, so that all, and at the most diverse locations, can have access to sports practice. But this State budget also advances in improving support for high-performance sport with the redefinition of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Programme. The State budget reinforces this financing programme by 86 %, working on the equalization between Olympic and Paralympic modalities, thus paying great respect for sports practice among those who already have more difficulties in their lives. It is EUR 6, EUR 9 million in 2019, a value that will converge between the Olympics and the Olympics up to 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now enter the debate on Article 165. o — Programme contracts in the field of health, and a wide range of proposals, namely: 60 - C, PCP, 272 - C, Greens, 594 - C, BE, 656 - C, PAN, 22 - C, BE, 533 - C, PCP, 670 - C and 678 - C, CDS-PP, 840 - C, PSD, 843 - C, PS, 845 - C, PSD, 434 - C, BE and 878 - C of the PCP. The first intervention lies with Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, from the CDS-PP, to whom I immediately give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of three years of socialist governance and the united Left, Portuguese have made it clear, among other things, that health is not an effective priority for this government. We have aggravated waiting times for consultations and surgeries, with the clear commitment of access to health care; we have insufficient support for chronic patients, for the most vulnerable patients, in the end of life, and for their caregivers; we have had a passage to 35 hours of disastrous work, with highly unsatisfied professionals and with strikes that multiply at a rate that we never attended; we have increasing debts and seizures, with the sustainability of the National Health Service (NSS) threatened. With this fourth Budget, opaque and full of promises without guarantees of being fulfilled, we continue to have underfunding of health, we continue to have a painful reality, and we do not believe that it will be corrected. What the CDS does in this Budget, giving continuity, indeed, to what has been our concern over the past three years, is again to go beyond criticism and present concrete proposals to improve key areas of Portuguese health, in order to concretely improve the responses that health has to give to populations so vulnerable. What we are doing is we are putting forward proposals to extend access to continued care, palliative care, clearly deficit areas and that this government has not adopted as a priority, what we are doing is to put forward proposals again in the field of financing. We believe you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be a good occasion for the left benches to go beyond the demagogy of gracious promises and effectively make health a full priority. That's what the Portuguese ask. The CDS does not resign from this commitment and hopes to be monitored by the other banks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u213	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. As and Mrs. Government members, EUR 500 million is the value that SNS spends annually with public-private partnerships ( PPP ) on health, which bring no benefit to users. None! And it's 500 million euros! Why give all this money to the Mello Group or Health Light, when there are still no, for example, community mental health teams? Oh, my God! Why drain the SNS resources for private people, when do we need them to equip health centers with cars for home care? Oh, my God! Why feed who makes health a business, when do we need these resources to extend the National Vaccination Program or fund 100% risk reduction and harm minimization projects? Oh, my God! What the Left Block proposes in this budget article is very simple: to end public-private partnerships in health and to invest where necessary, in particular in the creation of community mental health teams, in motor vehicles for primary health care, in the strengthening of the vaccination programme, in the financing of risk reduction projects. This is only to give some examples of the various proposals that we have put forward. We also remember the fundamental role of SNS professionals and therefore propose the fair remuneration of normal work and extraordinary work, both for public employment contracts and for individual employment contracts, even so without discrimination by legal link to institutions. And we propose all this because, between the business and the SNS, our choice is very, very clear: we choose the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u215	Mr João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Socialist Party today brings here a proposal concerning the Paediatric Center of the Hospital of São João, a pressing and urgent work for the district of Porto, a need identified more than a decade ago. We would like to recall that the only intervention by the former PSD/CDS Government in the person of the former Prime Minister was to launch the first stone twice without the work moving forward. And this action, which deceived the people and the people of the region, negatively marked all this leaflet around the Paediatric Center of the Hospital de São João. This State budget guarantees the necessary funding for the project and the work. If it is necessary to carry out the work in 2019 and to complete it in 2019, this State budget guarantees 100% funding. This has to be clear. But we could not stay here either, it was not enough to secure funding for the work of the Paediatric Center of the Hospital de São João, it was necessary to shorten the procedural deadlines of the project and the work, and the Socialist Party's proposal goes in this direction, because it allows the work to be done by direct adjustment and also allows the waiver of the previous visa of the Court of Auditors. [[PSD protests.]] The PS thus makes its decisive contribution to the work of the Pediatric Center of the Hospital of São João in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u217	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presents a proposal which is summarized in this phrase: « given word, honest word». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u219	The CDS proposal simply says that the works for the construction of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João — the works are not plans or contests —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u220	They threw the first stone twice and the work never advanced!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u221	... shall start in January. And why? Because, despite the screams of Mr. João Paulo Correia, I believe that there will be no one outside this Parliament who can understand how it is possible that, by all agreeing on the need for the construction of the pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João, the work has been successively suspended and postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u222	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u223	There is no one outside this plenary, who understands that! In the last debate we had here, the PS and the supporting parties, the PCP and the Left Block, gave a guarantee: « In January of next year the work is on the ground ». Honor your word! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u224	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the debate in Article 166. o — Investment plan for hospitals. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members need to go further in the investment and removal of SNS suffocating garrots. We therefore propose multi-annual investment programming. This proposal reinforces the funds for the investments necessary for the initiation of the procedures for the construction of the hospitals of Évora, the Sixal, Barcelos, the Algarve and the pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João, the expansion of the Hospital de Beja or the requalification of the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho. We also propose the exclusion of the application of the Compromise Law in the purchase of medicinal products, clinical consumption materials and medical devices and investments in improving facilities or equipment. It is necessary to improve the accessibility of users to medicines. Therefore, we propose the exemption of antipsychotic drugs in the SNS, the freeness of medicines to patients over 65 years of age and the increase in generic quota. Responses to primary health care need to be extended. The CFP proposes the creation of more teams to provide care to dependent patients, end-of-life patients and patients with mental disorders, proposes extending pilot experiences in the areas of oral and visual health to the whole territory and proposes the acquisition of more cars, enabling them to care for proximity. The country has a State Laboratory that can be even more empowered, with regard to the production of medicines for the National Health Service, which is the Military Laboratory. Thus, the CFP proposes that the Government create the conditions for the Military Laboratory to produce medicines that, having no interest in the industry, are essential for the treatment of certain diseases, such as orphan and generic drugs most consumed in Portugal. These are proposals to strengthen the National Health Service, improve the provision of care and accessibility of users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u226	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the investment of this government in the National Health Service is of the lowest memory in recent decades. [[It's true!]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u228	Indeed, since 2016, the investment in SNS has not exceeded – imagine! — 80 % of the year 2015, the last year of PSD governance, immediately after financial assistance to which we were shot, the result of the bankruptcy in which the PS left the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u229	Well remembered! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u230	The consequences of this deinvestment of the left in health are seen by everyone, only those who close their eyes in the name of party conveniences or their political sectarianism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u231	In fact, the discourse of the Left Block, today on PPPs, demonstrates this very: having returned more than three years of governance, have not reverted any PPPs and in the State Budget of the last year have approved another PPP. So this is incoherence in person! [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u232	While the former government, during the troika program, opened seven new hospitals, a new six-month hospital,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u233	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u234	... during your governance, what happened to this government? What happened to the PS, PCP and Left Block united left? Not a public hospital! Zero! Nothing! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The truth is that they have allowed the National Health Service to be degraded to such an extent that they push the Portuguese to the private, not because they do not want to use the public, but because they have no other option. The left one talks a lot about health, but it's not just about reliable conversation. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u235	What the PSD here today proposes is nothing more than demanding that the Socialist Government be consistent with the Socialist Party's promises, since the construction of the Paediatric Center of the Hospital of São João. It is already a national shame that the miserable conditions in which children, many of them with cancer, are being treated there. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias and Jorge Machado.]] The Government cannot continue to delay the resolution of this problem, especially since the current Minister signed a memorandum in 2017 in which she pledged to begin the work in 2017! Not only did they not fulfill this promise as Mr.Minister, at a hearing in the specialty, said that the money for the construction of the pediatric wing was available in the State Budget for 2018. The Socialist Party is now coming to say that it is the State Budget for 2019 that will solve it. The Minister came here to say that he could not be made by direct adjustment and now the PS makes the reel,... [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] ...saying that it will be by direct adjustment. The only thing the Socialist Party is interested in doing is pushing the belly to solve these problems while the parents and children despair in the city of Porto. [[PSD applause.]] More: PSD also proposes that PS honor, finally, the commitments have long been made by various socialist governments, in order to resolve the construction of the hospitals of the Algarve, Vila Nova de Gaia, Barcelos and Póvoa de Varzim. If these proposals are not approved, the country will confirm what has been known for a long time: health is not a priority of this government or of the left-wing parties in our country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u236	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a proposal which the Greens present, at the state budget, and which relates to the availability of the medicine for spinal muscle atrophy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, parents and mothers, who come here to the Assembly of the Republic completely desperate because they know that there is a drug approved and provenly effective for the problem of the spinal muscle atrophy of their children, see their children, from day to day, losing their capabilities, and do not see the effective availability of this medicine. Therefore, either it is not available or is only available to some. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens call for your special attention to the adoption of proposal 209 - C, which aims precisely to ensure that in 2019 the Government guarantees financial availability so that, in cases of favorable medical assessment, the medicinal product intended to treat spinal muscle atrophy to type I and type II patients in all hospitals of the National Health Service, moreover, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in accordance with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 121 / 2018, which was discussed and approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore call for your special sensitivity to the resolution of this concrete problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u238	We have moved on to the debate under Article 167. o — Users registered by family doctor. Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has to check its numbers again because the budgetary implementation of capital expenditure between 2011 and 2015 — we refer to investment — is EUR 91 million and between 2015 and 2017 the average was EUR 152 million, representing an average growth of 67 %. Go over your numbers, Mr. Deputy, go over your numbers! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Equal opportunities are a design of the Socialist Party and the current Government of Portugal and must therefore be taken into account from the very first moment of life. In Portugal, this issue is currently not adequately ensured for children who are allergic to cow's milk proteins and do not take any kind of support in the acquisition of infant milk or other adapted formulas. in this sense, the Socialist Party proposes that this specificity be included in the current legislation, where there is a duly substantiated medical indication, which promotes the dissemination to families and the medical community and which is affixed in this area of research, so that viable alternatives are found. unlike proposals submitted by other parties, this is the example of a fair, responsible and immediate impact on families. It is not with electoral and utopian measures, as is the case with EUR 1700 million in PSD proposals and more than EUR 1500 million in CDS proposals, which increase the cost of health, which defend the interests of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not with populist measures that ensure the financial stability of the country, but with measures such as those we have just submitted that the lives of Portuguese are positively changed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u240	The first intervention in the context of the discussion of Article 175. o — Railway rolling stock is the responsibility of Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the time of the last year of implementation of the 2020 Railway, the Government has only implemented EUR 102 million, a 5 % landfill of the programme. By the end of this year, what the government has to show the country is an electrified section of the 10 km route on the Mining Line of the 40 km planned. It's little, it's true, but that's what the government has to show. CP ( Portugal Trains ), in the first six months of 2018, has invested only EUR 4, 5 million, 10 % of its budget. So what do the Portuguese have every day? They do not have trains, more than 50 % of the fleet is in a state of obsolete— says the CP's Report and Accounts — there is a lack of maintenance personnel, degraded lines, even questioning the safety of people and goods. The government did not recover them, did not rent them, did not buy them, and still boycotted the existing tenders. The CP has reached this chaos, and the government and management are the only ones responsible for the degradation and independence of public transport. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u242	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro do Carmo of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the modernization of the railway line Beja-Casa Branca is a necessity, I would say more, is a priority, because for decades it has not been invested in the line and unfortunately the district capital has no direct link to Lisbon. This proposal complements the work of the PS, which, in the course of parliamentary days, put this issue as a priority, and complements what Mr. Minister of Infrastructure took up here in the Assembly of the Republic, saying that by the end of the year he will launch the tender for the project. Yes, because it is necessary to say that the PSD government and the CDS, which talk so much about this project, did not leave the project to be effectively able to do the work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This will be contemplated in the State Budget, will be a reality in the National Investment Plan 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u244	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u245	Mr President, I would like to refer to three proposals presented by the Greens at the railway station: the first to propose a study for the construction of a liaison branch in the East Line ; the second, for the electrification of the railway line between White House and Beja ; and the third, for the hiring of workers for EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company ). On these proposals, I would like to say that, as the Greens have been defending, rail is a structural element in the planning of the territory, with undeniable contributions for the removal of regional asymmetries, for the fight against depopulation, for the promotion of territorial cohesion, for social justice and for the development of the interior regions. In addition, it is of the utmost importance that the wager in rail transport is in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change, but it is also a sign of who wants to respond to international commitments to combat climate change. The replacement of daily passenger transport in the East Line, which occurred in August 2017 and the result of a Green proposal, represented an investment in de-investment policies in the railway, to which it is necessary to continue, as a way to enhance the positive results already verified. It is precisely to continue this work that The Greens propose that the Government prepare a study on the feasibility of the construction of a connected railway branch on the East Line from Portalegre railway station to the industrial park of the municipality. As for the electrification of the railway line between Casa Branca and Beja, I recall that The Greens have been presenting proposals over the years, including at the headquarters of State Budget, for the electrification of the entire railway line of the Alentejo. In fact, in one of the most impoverished and ageing areas in the country—and it is now more than proven from a scientific point of view that climate change will affect Alentejo—the future obliges us to make correct choices, in particular by giving priority to the investment and development of the railway. It is therefore urgent to establish the direct rail link between Lisbon and Beja and create the conditions for the replacement of the Beja-Funcheira connection, improving the functionality of the railway network to the south, as one of the strategic and effective measures to combat internality. Finally, as regards the hiring of workers for EMEF, it is important to remember that this public company has in the last 10 years suffered a loss of more than one third of its employees and a great ageing of its staff. We know that the government has opened this year, and well, a contract for the hiring of 102 new workers, but we also know that this number is not even enough to restore the release of employees that happened from 2015 until today. In other words, with the number of current workers, EMEF cannot respond to CP needs in the areas of maintenance, review and repair. The Greens therefore submit the proposal to hire more workers for EMEF. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u246	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Testa of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports all measures that value the East Line, because it itself is already being valued with the construction of the South International Corridor and because the promotion of rail transport in the Portalegre district and the Upper Alentejo is a priority for this government. Where the previous government closed stations, extinguished lines and abolished trains, it is the intention of this majority to put rail transport on the agenda! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u248	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 177. o — Transport. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in theory there is always unanimity in promoting the use of public transport, in improving tariff systems, in the best quality of transport, etc. We must then move on to practice. It is therefore necessary to create specific conditions for financing to ensure that transport prices can be reduced throughout the country. This is the meaning of the CFP's proposal for the Tax Reduction Support Programme ( PART ) in public transport, Article 178. The proposal of the law. It is necessary to ensure that, in the metropolitan areas, the social pass and the Andante continue, in the future, with more scope and lower prices; it is necessary to reinforce the funds to ensure that these measures can reach the ground at all CIM (Intermunicipal Communities) ; it is necessary to safeguard measures that allow the fair distribution of resources between transport undertakings, in order to prevent more excessive income for private economic groups. We also propose that in Articles 175. o is 179. the measures excluding the acquisition of ships and trains in respect of the expenditure delimitation regime vis-à-vis the previous year — i.e. the exclusion of Article 44. o — may also apply to the maintenance of fleets. It is not enough to promise and announce, for the future, some timely and insufficient measures for the acquisition of ships and trains, it is necessary to extend this renewal of fleet in Soflusa, in suburban and long-term trains, but it is necessary, from now on, in the maintenance of these fleets, to break up with this aberrant norm which prohibits more maintenance than in the previous year, which prohibits the strengthening of operational security measures, which prohibits the recovery and repair of more ships and trains. This is a problem that cannot continue, which has to be changed in the law of the State budget and it is in this sense that the CFP submits these proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u250	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 178. o — Programme to support tariff reduction in public transport. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, in fact, the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction is a structural measure, within the framework of the numerous public measures promoted by this Government, in the promotion of mobility and in the promotion of public transport. EUR 83 million was made available to the transport authorities to reduce tariffs in public public transport, but also to improve the supply of services and the extension of the network. It is a historic measure: it is a measure that will finally ensure that all families can opt for a new means of mobility and that can respond to the transport needs resulting from the fact that families can finally leave cars and join public transport in each of our cities and municipalities. We know that other parliamentary groups, such as Mr Bruno Dias mentioned recently, are defending the increase in the value allocated to this measure. However, we would like to point out that this Programme is accompanied by another set of structural measures which cannot be abandoned and cannot be abandoned in the State budget : large investments in public transport undertakings, the revision of public service contracts with undertakings which guarantee an effective public transport service, as well as the strengthening of the financial compensation allocated to the various public transport undertakings of the State. We therefore understand that this is a measure that will change the paradigm of mobility and public transport in Portugal and that it is at the same time balanced by seeking, in conjunction with the other measures, to ensure that there is a change in what is today the picture of mobility and public transport in our cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u252	Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, our proposals relating to this article result from a negative assessment of the amounts and criteria that the Government has included in the PART. As far as we are concerned, the EUR 83 million do not reach a tariff reduction that is seen and that it is extended to the whole country. The PART does not include the freeness of public transport up to 12 years throughout the country; the PART does not create conditions of universal access to the social pass so as to make the use of public transport more attractive and thus to fight for greater mobility and a better environment for all. This would happen if the article referred to a principle of social passes throughout the continent and autonomous regions and if its cost was aligned with the maximum values to be practised in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. With these objectives, we advocate a financial strengthening of the CAP's funds, using the revenue of the ISP ( tax on oil and energy products) and other related rates, in the amounts necessary for the support to be defined together with the metropolitan areas, the CIMs and the Regional Governments. On the other hand, the distribution of revenues by operators shall correspond to the average route carried out in each mode of transport and not to the average time of travel, otherwise those who do not travel on their own will be harmed. Finally, tariff reductions should cover all pendulum movements occurring in territories located outside the metropolitan areas. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u254	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, reducing the cost of social passes to families is an excellent idea. What is not understandable, what is not acceptable and which is extremely unfair is the model we have on the table, proposed by the Government: that of which all Portuguese pay the reductions for some.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u256	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u257	And in port and Lisbon, preferably before the European elections and the legislative elections; in the rest of the country, you will soon see yourself. This is not fair, it is not acceptable and it is even intolerable in a democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u258	It makes sense that it is for everyone, throughout the country. This is our proposal! If, in fact, it is for everyone, as Mr Bexiga said, then that it is even for everyone and that, on the same day, from north to south, all Portuguese, all families will benefit from this proposal. That's what we propose. If, in fact, words are the same as acts, you will have a solution: to vote on the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u259	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to explain how the greatest tax burden of all time results in the worst public services of all time. [[All right!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u261	You will have to explain how investment in rail, which is announced as the largest in the last 100 years, represents the worst railway service in the last 100 years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u262	We will therefore vote in favour of all the proposals that come into practice, as Mr Bruno Dias said, which bring justice, universality and quality of transport services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u264	This, why? Because you are responsible—it is quite clear what a Government with PS, Block Left, Ecological Party 'The Greens' means—because 85 % of the rail network is at risk of accident. The risk doubled in the mandate of that Government to solve the problem of public transport service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u265	That is why we want to vote in favour of all the proposals that transform the 'PARV', which is the 'Vote Collection Action Plan', into a genuine PRT, into a real tariff reduction plan. Therefore, all those proposals that lead to the reduction of tariffs to the country, which lead to the reduction of tariffs to all those who need public services will have the right vote on the side of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u266	The last intervention in the debate on this article lies with the Government, through the Under-Secretary of State and Mobility, José Mendes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Programme for Supporting Tax Reduction in Public Transport is certainly one of the flagship measures of this State budget and is a measure of social cohesion, because it allows more citizens to access more opportunities, at a more affordable, more bearable cost, and now contributing to the fight against climate change. That is why I sincerely understand the frustration of the PSD and CDS benches when we point to a measure of this nature. It is that those who have invested so much in the public transport service during the period of the previous legislation, reducing the public transport company's employees by 1000 employees, reducing the supply by 25 %, brutally increasing the cost of transport, while at the same time withdrawing income from Portuguese, can only be frustrated by the fact that there is a government that addresses this issue in this way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u268	We moved on to Article 190. the and the only inscription for the debate of this article...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u269	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u270	I'm sorry, Secretary of State, I thought it was over. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u271	Mr. President, it was a dramatic break. The PART is not only for Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u272	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u273	If the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS read Article 178 ( 2 ). the — because, in order to vote, the proposals must be read —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... verified that the money is to be shared by metropolitan areas and intermunicipal communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u274	What's the date? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u275	Now, if it is to be distributed by the inter-municipal communities, it necessarily goes beyond the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u276	Porto and Lisbon have dates! Where's the date for the rest of the country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u277	So, overcome this attempt to repeat often a lie in the expectation that it becomes true, something that is not possible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u278	Say the date!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u279	... we can move forward and say that, despite this proposal we have taken part in a first appropriation of EUR 83 million, we have worked very hard during these days in the budgetary dimension of this PART and we can increase this budget allocation to EUR 104 million, thus following the proposals of several parliamentary banks. The gentlemen. Members can be sure of one thing: the government is very committed to improving, making it wider, more complex, more diverse the mobility chain in Portugal. But in this exercise, there is something I can assure you: public transport will always have a nuclear role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u280	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to apologize to you for my lateness, which interrupted your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u281	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u282	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u283	To request clarification, Mr President. I would like the Government to inform you of the date on which this programme will apply to the rest of the country, because the diploma has only the date on which it will apply in Lisbon and Porto. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u284	Let us turn to Article 190. o — Provision of revenue for oil and energy products tax. To that end, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u285	Mr President, allow me, before I begin my speech, to say the following: I believe that a request has been made to clarify Mr. Secretary of State and that, therefore, the words must be given to Mr. Secretary of State to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u286	Here, there are no requests for clarification!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u287	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the Bureau gave him the floor to speak on Article 190. it will do its best to make such an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u288	Mr President, with regard to this Rule 190. the CDS presented a proposal that eliminates the overtax of 6 cents per litre on gasoline and gas oil, which the Government of the Socialist Party created in 2016. We know very well who he is created and under what conditions this overtax has been created on gasoline and gas oil. Who created it was the Government of the Socialist Party, even though it later had the support of both the Portuguese Communist Party, either the Left Block, or the Greens to maintain it to this day. But we know, above all, the conditions under which this tax was created. He was created to be a neutral tax, that is, when the price of gasoline began to rise and the state raised more VAT money, the ISP should come down. That was the speech given in this Parliament by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and then by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] The truth is that this tax, which was a neutral tax and should be temporary, has become a huge tax burden, a huge tax burden on Portuguese taxpayers. We are talking from 2016 to today about more than EUR 1000 million that have been taken away from families and businesses in Portugal to feed the state's safes. It is appropriate that we look at the numbers as they are: today, 1 liter of diesel is 33 cents more expensive than it was at the beginning of 2016, and 14 cents of these 33 cents are tax, ISP and VAT. In gasoline, 1 liter is today 17 cents more expensive than it was in early 2016, and 8 cents of these 17 cents are tax, ISP and VAT. We all realize today that the fiscal neutrality promised by the Socialist Party was a achievement, one more of the achievements of this Budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The proposal that we bring here today to plenary was almost — but even almost — to be adopted in June this year. And that proposal just didn't happen because, at the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u289	Because it was unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u290	... some political parties said that she could not be voted out of the budget, but that they would be here to vote on this proposal in this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u292	We've made a date for this day. Today is the day when the CDS again proposes the elimination of overtax. Let's see how many of the parties who tell the Portuguese that they're against this overtax in gasoline and gas oil are going to vote. currently, the elimination of the overtax on gasoline and diesel is not only in the hands of the CDS, it is in the hands of all Members. Let's see how she's going to be voted on this afternoon. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u293	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the tax on fuels and the overtax created by the government represent one of the frauds with which this government provided the Portuguese. It is therefore natural for the Democratic Social Party to present a proposal to restore the tax levels of that day when the government decided to increase it. When the government decided to increase fuel taxes and create an overtax it simply argued: "We need revenue, the price of oil has fallen, this tax will be temporary and it is only so that the State will not lose". All right! And so it has been in force for months. Only then did the price of fuel begin to rise and the government forgot the promise, because it was interested in making more revenue. Now, after removing EUR 1 billion from the taxpayers' pockets, we are here today saying: "It's not to go down. It is to fulfill your promise and rest this tax on the levels at which it was when you contributed to its increase." By this way, we try to break two frauds: government fraud, because it said one thing and it did not comply, but also the fraud of other parties who speak, speak, speak, say that they are against, but at the moment of truth, they shut up and vote alongside the government, the maintenance of this tax. [[PSD applause.]] That's fraud, fraud! Fraud, because when you say something and if you do the opposite, that means you have no principles. And it is also the principles of all parties that will be evaluated this afternoon when we vote on this proposal. But this proposal from the PSD also aims to put an end to the schemes with which this Government provides the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u295	The government simply said: « We are going to lower the tax on oil products». And then what is confirmed? That, after all, is only about gasoline, when gas oil is what has 80 % of the market. Furthermore, the Government will create an additional carbon rate, which will keep everything in it and the state will raise more than EUR 200 million, in line with the government's forecast for next year. Now, this scheme that has to be put to an end is also fraud. So let us be clear: today everyone will know who is, in fact, against maintaining this tax at the levels at which it is and who speaks, speaks, but eventually accepts everything that the government proposes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u296	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Mota Soares and Mr Duarte Pacheco, I have listened carefully to your speeches and the adjectivement they have used and I would like to contribute to the Members. Members may, with all information, speak the truth. The first question I have to clarify is that the ISP revenue has not increased EUR 1000 million, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. That number has no adherence to reality and the suggestion I make, Mr President. Members, please consult the DGO ( Directorate-General for Budget) budget implementation bulletins. More: with regard to the meeting we have marked for today following a June debate, I would also ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen carefully to what the government has said at the time. At the time, the Government said that it was available to discuss energy taxation and mobility issues within the framework of the ISP policy in the framework of the State budget. I also want to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, on Friday, have published a door office—and perhaps they have not yet had the opportunity to read—to return the ISP rate of petrol to 3 cents. I would therefore like to reply to Mr Rui Rio, who doubted that the government would come to bring this about, and I would just like to inform the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have been published. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The door was published. On the other hand, this State budget contains, as we have just discussed, a huge relief for the whole country, translated into a tariff reduction in terms of support for mobility policies. And this is also the Budget which contains very concrete measures for energy and, in particular, for electricity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past month, gas oil has fallen; over the last three years, the transport of goods has benefited from professional gas oil. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tax policy must be at the service of the Portuguese. I would also like to remind you that one third of the revenue of the ISP is assigned revenue, whether to the Environmental Fund or to the Permanent Forestry Fund ( FFP ), or to the contribution to road safety. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a meeting marked for this budget, yes, a sustainable budget and a budget with mobility and energy policies for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u298	Still on Article 190. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go, then, to the truth! The fact is that it was this government that promised the Portuguese that tax would be neutral. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u300	This means that if there were a possibility for the State to collect more tax revenue for each litre of gas oil and for each litre of gasoline, the ISP would come down. Mr. Secretary of State, we are going to the truth: in January 2016, the State collected, in each litre of gas oil, 59 cents of tax; today, the State is collecting, in each litre of gas oil, 73 cents of tax. For this reason, there are margins to lower the tax, without losing tax revenue, January 2016, which was what you considered to be the right tax. And there is exactly the same thing about gasoline, Mr. Secretary of State. For that reason, the truth is that you lied to the Portuguese people when they said that the tax was going to be neutral and then they removed the word they had given. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And today, Mr Secretary of State, when we look at the accounts, we know that in petrol, ISP and VAT, the Portuguese paid more than EUR 1000 million above neutrality. I'm not saying that, who made this account was UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), just in 2016, we only completed the rest with the reasoning of UTAO. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, the meeting marked was not with you. We recognize that the government lied because it said something and, by withdrawing what it said, by taking the floor, it lied to the Portuguese. The meeting marked — and the word we want to know at this moment whether or not it is true in this debate — is with those benches in front of me, the benches on the left. Those benches said that this matter could not be discussed outside the State budget and now we are discussing it in the State budget. And what did we hear from those benches? Zero! A silence! Let's see how they vote this afternoon. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u301	The floor is once again Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I continue not to enter the adjective registration and much less in accordance with the adjectivement that Mr Mota Soares has used. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u303	But it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u304	However, Mr President, I would also like to ask you to do it in favour of consulting and verifying that, in 2015 and 2016, there is an amendment in the form of accounting for the ISP's revenue, which was a recommendation from the Court of Auditors for the contribution of road safety to be also accounted for in this respect. That is what I wanted to say to you, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u305	Still on Article 190. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the truth has a counterpoint, which is the lie. You promised the Portuguese something. And they failed the truth, they lied! The truth is that these numbers I told you are not from the CDS. These figures were presented in a UTAO report. The truth is in that report. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u307	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 192. o — Aid for small craft and coastal fishing and small aquaculture, for which there is only one inscription, that of Mr Matias. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state must have a greater capacity for intervention in dredgings, an essential operation for the safety of citizens. from then on, we propose the creation of a public dredging company. Moreover, this will create direct and indirect employment on Portuguese shipyards. On the other hand, our fishing fleet is aging, the vessels are an average age that exceeds 30 years, which exposes fishermen to great risks, leading to the abandonment of activity. Support for the renewal of the fleet is essential to ensure the future of fishing activity in Portugal. We also propose a specific programme aimed at the lifting, recovery and modernization of degraded batch buildings or under poor conditions of conservation and operation, such as the extreme case of the Lota de Trafaria. It is also necessary to carry out the much-claimed construction of the fishing port of Tavira to serve the fishing communities of Fuseta, Tavira, Cabanas and Santa Luzia. It is fair that this Budget will enable the advancement of this work. Associations with public utility status acting in the field of promoting measures related to the safety of work at sea, with such worthy work, should be likened to fisheries and aquaculture producer organisations, as we propose, in order to ensure their functioning. Finally, we will vote in favour of all the proposals corresponding to the support for a discount on the final price of petrol and gas oil for fishing, measures that must be regulated in time and time, which unfortunately has not come to pass. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u309	We turn to Article 193. o — National Regadios Programme. Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, it is with serious and sustainable measures that face the problems of the forest, it is not with manifests, paid by the cellulose industry, that these serious and urgent problems are solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u311	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u312	One of the strongest steps in forest reform was the approval of the Bloc proposal on forest management units, the UGFs, for the aggregate and associative management of the forest minifundia, as an alternative to cellulosic financing of the forest. In the first notice on applications for the creation of the UGFs, 28 projects were nominated, meaning many thousands of hectares. It is an excellent sign and indicates that the road is, in fact, around here. But it is not enough to create UGF, it is essential to support its operation and its investment in forest planning. It is in this sense that this proposal from the Left Block, on the allocation of support so that these UFGs, and those that come to appear can avenge, are an instrument against abandonment and remove the small forest producers from blackmailing the eucalyptus lobby, which wants to dry everything around them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u313	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Budget now being discussed, as the last three, despises, ignores, mortgages the future of the agricultural and forestry sector in Portugal. This budget clearly shows that the Ministry of Agriculture is the poor parent of this government solution. This government and its policy have a lot of responsibility in reducing the profitability of the sector's activities. Over the past two years, the yield of agricultural activity has decreased by more than 5 %. For this sector to have results corresponding to the effort, dedication and commitment of our farmers, the PSD presents the following proposals: first, appreciation of national agricultural products. This proposal is based on three axes: first, dissemination campaigns of our agri-food products; second, strengthening the labelling of food, indicating to the consumer the place of origin of food, thus promoting national production; third, the creation of measures promoting proximity markets as alternative means of marketing small local productions, thereby promoting the most disadvantaged territories. On the other hand, the PSD also presents measures to reduce the costs of farmers' production factors, including green electricity and agricultural gas oil, as a way to boost the competitiveness of our agricultural companies. On the other hand, because this government is reluctant to attack the forest sector and the forest owners with wrong policies that only contribute to the abandonment of the land and to the promotion of the forests and infestants, the PSD proposes the elimination of another tax for the forest. No more taxes! No more taxes! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u315	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u316	Mr President, the CDS also presents a set of proposals aimed at improving forest management and contributing to what is forest management, not only when this management is grouped, but also for thousands of small forest owners, for whom we present a deduction to the collection in the IRS of expenditure made with forest management. We also put forward a proposal for the incentive to reforestation with native leafy leaves, with a loss of income premium which, in fact, we saw being resumed last year from a proposal from the CDS and which this year reviewed below in the proposal for the State Budget Act and also in the proposals presented by the Block of Left. We hope that this year the parties accompanying the Government and the Government themselves will approve the proposals that the CDS has been presenting, confirming that we were right, this year the Government will be tugging what the CDS has already presented last year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u317	We turn to Article 196. o — Previous review of the Court of Auditors, and of proposals 543 - C, of the CDS-PP, and 889 - C, of the PSD. Mrs. Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u318	Mr President, let us speak of our diaspora, one of the greatest goods Portugal has, for the good and for the bad times. The Portuguese State cannot want to count on the contribution of our migrants in the days of the sun and then, in the troubled days, let them go. That is why the PSD proposes the plan to support the return of national and Luso-descendant citizens on humanitarian grounds. We have, unfortunately, met very closely, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens when an ideological regime collapses. For three years the situation in Venezuela has worsened, leading thousands of citizens to return to Portugal with little means of subsistence. This has created an increased pressure in regional and local services, social action, housing, education and health. The President of Madeira has already said that the Regional Government will do everything to welcome with humanity our Luso-venezuelan brothers and we will look positively at their return to Madeira. And now I ask: and the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will do everything, too? We will see in the votes and hope that they do not make the same mistake twice, automatically sucking everything that comes from this bench. The future of our emigrants cannot be a toy in the hands of management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u319	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament, on 3 February 2005, said well in February 2005, through a joint order of the then Government, a working group was set up to propose solutions for outstanding questions concerning Portuguese citizens living in the former overseas territories between 25 April 1974 and the date of full transfer of sovereignty. That is to say, since February 2005 this working group has been set up to which, by everyone's responsibility, we are serious—here we will also be to assume our responsibilities— has never been implemented. With this proposal, what the CDS wants, in a responsible way and without creating false expectations, is that a work will end in 2019 which began in 2005. It is the minimum that a State of good can and must do when tens of thousands of our compatriots have delivered documentation to the guard of the State that deserves to be analyzed and evaluated and, if necessary, obviously these citizens deserve to be compensated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u322	This is all that is meant to be: that the State should respect with its word, lately, it is true, that it must be responsible for all but that it should fulfil it. That's all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're at stake, nothing more. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u323	The Government now intervenes through the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, José Luís Carneiro. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the interventions which have been made, because they confirm the opportunity for the political measures of the Government, i.e. the political measures that are under way to strengthen the gradual and multi-level response to those who, being abroad, want to reconstitute with their lands of origin. On the other hand, they also allow to validate not only the reinforcement of the immigration support offices in the national territory, which in this legislature grew 46 %, but also to enhance the cooperation that the government has been developing with the AEP Foundation, designed to support the return of a prepared generation, supporting, stimulating the creativity and innovation of those who return and who have been part of the country’s exits between 2010 and 2015, allowing also to value the investment support that has been developed with origin in the diaspora. However, there are other measures — the Secretary for Tax Affairs has mentioned them publicly — which are not solely fiscal but have a multidimensionality which must be valued. They are matters of a social security nature, which relate to tax issues, mobility and the capacity to receive from Portuguese municipalities. I would like to stress the good cooperation with the Portuguese municipalities and the good cooperation that has prevailed in the relationship with the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, with which we have established a very regular framework of work and which, in fact, is providing clues to a set of measures that are being consolidated in relation to a broader perspective on those who, having left the country and continuing to miss our country here, want to return, invest and restore their lives. I stress this cooperation involving five Secretaries of State of the Regional Government of Madeira and ten Secretaries of State of the Government of the Republic, relating to tax, social security, housing, infrastructure, health issues, and also with very clear and objective commitments, this time included in the State Budget. Thus there is capacity for implementing measures, in particular in terms of social security and health support, and the Government will not lack its commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u325	We turn to Article 197. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth budget of this Government, a parliamentary majority, and it is the budget that concludes the promise of fiscal relief in the IRS. The fiscal relief that took place every year, beginning in the first two years with the reduction and extinction of the over-tax and, in the next two years, with a restructuring of steps which focused, above all, on the second step, which is, in fact, where the median income of work in Portugal is, unfortunately, and which currently totals a return of income, i.e. a loss of revenue over EUR 1000 million annually. That is why, because we have completed this process, it makes no sense to take any isolated aspect of this vast reform and to say that fiscal relief could be greater. Tax relief can always be greater, and it is not difficult to propose tax reliefs when you are not in government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u327	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u328	In fact, PSD and CDS are constantly proving how easy it is to propose tax reliefs when you are not in government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is difficult to make tax reliefs and, at the same time, to ensure that there are public resources to finance all those priorities that, since yesterday's early morning, we are here discussing and for which, judging also by interventions, these public resources are always insufficient. in this Budget, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes a set of measures that enable me to highlight two that favour the savings for reform in the IRS: one, eliminating the incentive to early demobilization of pension funds, and another, allowing consideration of real estate assets for those over 65 years of age to be done by other means than by acquisition of a new house. But there are also many important votes, in the specialty, around IRS, because the same parties that in 2014 did a reform of the IRS now come, in 2018, to present a set of proposals that essentially abandon the philosophy that was present in the reform itself that they presented and that, in the case of the CDS — truly! — also throw aside the principle of equal taxation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Do you want an example? The example is as follows: in the deductions to the current IRS collection, the State allows a deduction to the collection of 15%, with a limit, in health, and allows a deduction to the collection of 30%, with a limit, in education; the CDS now proposes that some taxpayers, when they put gasoline in the car, have a deduction to the collection of 100% and without any limit! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the CDS has already corrected the proposal that, in the amendment to the reduced VAT rate, included the performances of pornographic character at the reduced rate, but these proposals are the equivalent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u329	For that we already have your speeches!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u330	These proposals are obscene from the point of view of tax equality. These proposals are tax pornography! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u331	Obscene is lying to people! That's obscene!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u332	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the CFP proposes a new tax relief for low-income taxpayers, as a result of an increase in the minimum of existence. On a proposal from the PCP, the minimum existence was defrosted in 2018, ensuring that its value will increase by 150 € next year. But it is possible—and fair! — go further. Therefore, we propose a change in the formula for calculating the minimum existence, ensuring a tax relief that may go up to €450. We also propose updating the limits of the IRS steps. The previous PSD/CDS government did not update this, implying that the IRS was getting a little worse every year. Since 2016, with the decisive intervention of the CFP, the scale limits have been updated annually, but now the PS and its government, obsessed with the deficit, intend to interrupt this practice and again freeze the steps of the IRS to go looking for more 60 million euros on labour income. The CFP rejects this path, proposing an update at the inflation rate. We also present a proposal for tenants who are victims of the evictions law of the previous PSD/CDS government. We propose that the compensation received as a result of clearance actions should not be taxed at the IRS level. It understands the PCP that these people, usually elderly and with low incomes, should not see their problem of aggravated housing loss with an additional tax payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u335	In addition to these tax relief measures for workers, pensioners and families, the CFP proposes a more appropriate taxation of large incomes and large profits. More specifically, we propose, within IRS, the compulsory inclusion of capital and real estate incomes for taxpayers with very high incomes and, within IRC, the creation of a new stage of the state spillover for large companies. These are just and necessary measures that bring greater fiscal fairness to the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u336	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what happens to me first is to ask the Portuguese and the companies where is the tax relief Mr. Rocha Andrade brought to the Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u338	It's EDP! EDP has had a fiscal relief!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u339	We're talking about IRS, it's not about IRC!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u340	...because, in fact, this is the favorite chapter of the left-wing majority: to punish Portuguese and companies with taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u341	The PSD can vote in favour of the CFP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u342	The specialty of this majority is to invent, create, increase, increase additional taxes or extraordinary, special and municipal contributions. If, with all this, there's a tax relief, I don't understand where he is! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u344	Mr President, you can vote in favour of the CFP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u345	Mrs. Members, the obvious result is that it beats records of tax burden every year that passes: in the IRS, by not updating the steps, allowing the gains of the economy to disappear; in the IRC, with the worsening of the spill ; in the IMI, with the creation of the additional to the additional; by the municipal contribution of civil protection;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u346	It's an orgy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u347	... for the special contribution to the conservation of forest resources; for the extraordinary contributions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have an extraordinary set of 50 % increases in rates, I repeat, 50 % increases in rates! This is the case with the autonomous taxation of IRS, the autonomous taxation of IRC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u348	But the PSD won't let any of this happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u349	...with the stamp tax. Rates that increased by 50 % in 2019 and that had already increased by 2018, so double the rates!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u350	I have already said that you can vote in favour of the CFP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u351	This effectively results in a huge tax burden and is a real tax orgy, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u352	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u353	in the end and after all, what matters is the discussion this morning, the vote of the afternoon and the execution throughout 2019 is the pose for the photograph, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP. The strict demands of the morning follow the handovers and the clutters in the afternoon votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u354	Speak down, in the afternoon! [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u355	... and that then, when there is the impasse of execution, it no longer matters, they no longer worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u356	Afternoon!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u357	Result: minimum public services and accelerated degradation of the social state. Every day the tragedies happen and go through the country, and that doesn't bother them. For example, today's agenda is an increase in the number of AIDS infections. Every day there is a new figure on these issues. With this governance of PS, Left Block and PCP, it is clear: tax burden, minimum public service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u358	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem of real estate speculation and the need to find appropriate tax measures have been present since the beginning of these parliamentary negotiations between the Left Block and the Government. There was even an agreement in principle on the diagnosis and also on the need for a future measure, which did not move forward because the government gave up in the middle of the negotiations. The Block hasn't changed its mind. We propose fairer measures to tax real estate gains, measures to promote urban rehabilitation and market stabilization, measures to penalise excessive rotation and exploitation of speculative movements, measures to protect family housing and investment in business equipment. These are cross-sectional measures: adjust the value in IRS; create an additional in IRC, which extends to real estate funds so far free; and exacerbate the value when received by offshore entities. I must also tell you that the PSD has also put forward proposals in this debate following, in fact, the withdrawal of the Government itself from the proposals for capital gains, which we want to point out. We also want to say, however, that the PSD proposal has, in our view, three shortcomings. First of all, it is indifferent to urban rehabilitation, only to worsen much in the very short term and to degrade very much in the long term, an idea that we cannot follow. Secondly, it does not extend its regime to IRC, allowing the escape to IRC, nor to real estate funds. Thirdly, it has such sudden variations in the effective rate that it promotes, in practice, the retention of houses, waiting for the tax to come down in the future. Mrs. Members, our proposals avoid these failures and promote a fairer regime, a more transversal regime, a structured regime, a well-designed regime and a system designed to tax in a fairer way the most valuables. In the votes that we shall hold this afternoon, the PSD may prove that it has come to this debate to actually change something in the taxation of surpluses, but the PS will also have an opportunity to reconsider. Whatever the reasons for the sudden change of position, the initial diagnosis was correct, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Socialist Party's will was true—and I believe it was! — then we have an opportunity here to give you consequences. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u360	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, the PSD has a completely different position from the left, which are increasingly radical. We understand that the correction of part of the problems of the lease market — which exist, indeed, and must be corrected — cannot be done at the expense of the owners. This is a big difference we have in relation to the left. In fact, historical results demonstrate that. We understand that the correction must be made through the stimulation of the offer...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u362	You've studied your proposal well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u363	... and we know that with a better offer, with a higher and more regulated offer is possible the best adjustment, but also about speculation. It is certainly not with measures to discourage investment that the market will move forward, that we will have better measures and that things will work. Enforced requirements, income freeze, etc. That's not where we're going! One of the most emblematic measures in the set of proposals proposed by the PSD is the differentiation of the special income rate for contracts over 5 and 10 years. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] There is a positive differentiation in the reduction of the autonomous rate of IRS for those who enter into long-term contracts. The aim is to encourage, stimulate and transmit to the owners the legal certainty necessary to be able to conclude contracts with longer duration, proposing changes at the special rate, to the liberative rate. Allowing confidence levels to increase between the parties, between tenants and landlords, is a priority for us. We believe that this is indeed a great contribution that the PSD makes to the State Budget for 2019. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u364	Mr Virgílio Macedo of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know — the Portuguese know! — that this is a budget that only thinks about the present. Even so, it is not surprising, or perhaps not, that there is no measure in this State budget that is an incentive for savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u366	There's not only two or three!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u367	We know that, in an economy such as Portugal, the low or very low level of savings does not promote investment, is an impediment to sustainable and solid future economic growth and makes the country more vulnerable to external shocks. More: whoever does not save in the present may be mortifying his future well-being. Therefore, the PSD presented, responsibly, initiatives aimed at creating a set of incentives to save Portuguese. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] contrary to the narrative presented by the Socialist Party here today, yesterday these initiatives were plunged, they were rejected! But the PSD has more savings incentives and therefore we must not lose hope that these proposals will now be adopted. Mrs. Members, the relevance, the importance of savings does not close or can close any question of ideological character in itself and therefore the PSD expects the support of all parliamentary groups for these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u368	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS submits, yes, proposals for the IRS of those who live inside. It presents, with pride and conviction, a proposal for a lower IRS for those living in the interior and that expenses with tolls, gas oil and gasoline may be discounted in the IRS. Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, I would like to tell you that obscene is to have a country forgotten, that is not heard and that is abandoned for the simple reason that you have no votes, as the Socialist Party does. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Obsceno, Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, is to take care of the passes of those who live in big cities and then who do not even have public transport and has no alternative but to travel by car which, with much sacrifice, can buy it has a discount on the IRS. That's obscene! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u370	The sacrifice is for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u371	Finally, Mr ex-Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, obscene was a reassessment of assets which was a tax bill for large companies, for which you did not care whether there was money or whether there was a future. That, yes, was obscene! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u372	You have no arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u373	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is known that the PSD has already presented a relevant housing package and, in this package, one of the measures that needs to be highlighted is the one we have presented to combat real estate speculation. Combating speculation is something that must be shared by everyone, because one thing is to be on the market, of course free access to everyone, to buy and sell and another is to take advantage of specific market moments for, with speculative behaviors, taking incomes that will not be normal, contributing to making access to housing difficult. For this reason, the PSD has proposals for families and companies operating in this market that aim to reduce the tax burden for those who have the correct behavior and to exacerbate taxation for those who have speculative behaviors. For families it is very simple: people who stay with their homes for many years may pay, in terms of value, when they alienate, less than what they pay today and may even pay nothing. However, anyone who has speculative movements will see the taxation aggravated in terms of value added. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u375	For companies, the opposite. In terms of IMT (Municipal Tax on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions), what we know is that companies that operate on the market are there to buy and sell and not to pack product to make the price increase. Therefore, companies that operate freely in this market, selling within a short period of time what they have acquired, retain the exemption within IMT, but those companies that have speculative behaviours, seeking to keep the product waiting for the price to rise, will have a tax penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u377	This proposal is clear and we hope that others will be able to share this objective. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u378	The Government now intervenes through the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding IRS, 2019 is the culmination of everything we have done throughout the legislature. A number of times we have already said it, but it is important to stress that this was a continuous legislation of tax relief for Portuguese families, namely, in the elimination of overtax, in replacing the family coefficient by deductions and also by reforming the steps and increasing the minimum of existence. All conjugated means that in 2019 the Portuguese will pay less EUR 1000 million of taxes than they would pay with the 2015 rules. I would like to stress that the minimum of existence had not only an update in the State Budget for 2018 as the promotion of a major change, which was a formula of calculation to determine this minimum of existence so that it would not be dependent on the political will of any government. Therefore, this update was made last year and is again done this year by changing the formula we approved. In 2019, what we do is introduce fiscal equity measures, measures that I have not seen here valued by the opposition benches. Yes, the opposition, which says that this is an electoral budget, says nothing about a measure of the greatest importance, which is the elimination of the rate of release for income up to the national minimum wage, which was applied to immigrants, who work here, and which, as we know, do not vote here in Portugal. This is even the largest voter measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another measure of justice is that retentions at the source of additional work have a treatment similar to that given to Christmas and holiday subsidies. Yes, because the CDS wants to exclude these incomes from taxation, but never proposed it when it was power.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u380	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u381	We never said that we wanted to reduce the taxation of extraordinary hours, but, yes, to balance the moment they are borrowed and the time they are received. I want to finish this part of the IRS with a reflection on the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The gentlemen. Members presented a set of 18 proposals for new deductions in IRS — I repeat, presented a new set of 18 deductions in IRS, in this Budget. What I am asking for is your reflection on the following: if we approve these 18 proposals this year, plus 18 for the next year and another 18 for the next year, I don't know where we'd be going to stop with the IRS. Once and for all, we must understand that the IRS is a progressive tax, personal deductions are defined in health expenses, education expenses, general and family expenses. The measures adopted here may be very good to have an echo in a certain public, are very commendable measures, such as bicycles, deductions in buildings or gymnasium activities, but all this is measures that only decharacterize tax and make it regressive, rather than progressive. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a reflection on where we would stop if we adopted 18 new IRS deductions every year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u382	We turn to Article 198. o — Addition to the IRS Code. Mr José Cesario, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, we have tabled a proposal concerning the tax regime of members of our communities who are established in Portugal, first of all, in the name of respect which is due to all who have left here, not only to those who have left Portugal until 2015 but also to all others, secondly, in the name of respect that is due to those who have been born out of Portugal and who want to look to Portugal and, finally, in the name of truth, because, contrary to what the government says, today we continue to have people leaving Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u385	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u386	The truth is that for 2015, today, in Germany, more 12 881 Portuguese live,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u387	Why would it be! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u388	... in the United Kingdom, more than 16 000 live ; in Canada, more 6146 ; in Luxembourg, more 4700 ; in Belgium, more 2900 ; in the Netherlands, more 2300. The government that doesn't say it doesn't know, that doesn't know these numbers. As you know nothing about Tanks, as you know nothing about Borba, it is good for you to know what happens to the Portuguese who leave Portugal today and who continues to feed the universe of our emigration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u389	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cesario, I recognize you as someone who is concerned about the Portuguese communities, not only about the functions he has already performed for more than once but also about the electoral circle in which he is elected. But, honourable Member, you are sitting on a bench that invited the Portuguese to emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we do is we invite the Portuguese to come back. All Portuguese, Mr. Deputies! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an integrated programme to promote the return of those who, for some reason, had to leave the country at any time in their lives. This programme has several components, including a tax component, and it is this fiscal component that the PSD brings to the debate today. I want to congratulate the PSD, because months after the PS Secretary-General announced this measure, it is finally seen that it was effective. The gentlemen. Members said it wasn't, but it was actually effective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u391	We turn to Article 203. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. Mrs Jamila Madeira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, Dear Members, this is a business-friendly budget, it is a budget that, like the previous three, promotes more capitalised, more solvent and less indebted companies. In non-financial enterprises only, according to INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), we have 11, 5 % of turnover growth since 2015, an improvement in the debt ratio by less than 13 % and an increase in financial autonomy by more than 13 %, alongside increased labour productivity by 3, 6 %. Yes, we all know that non-financial companies, real economy companies, are indispensable to recover public accounts and, therefore, the 2019 State Budget follows this line, that is, it assumes fiscal stability and strengthens support for corporate capitalisation. So let me highlight the end of the obligation of the special payment on account, as well as the end of the minimum collection of simplified IRC and the increase of the maximum limit of retained and reinvested profits from 7 to 5 million, clearly rewarding those who pull the economy. That is also why, and to draw on the economy, the PS presented a proposal for support and encouragement to the national industry, to the electrosolar craft industry, and to equate the benefits to the currently existing electric vehicles. Therefore, since they do not accompany us in the other proposals, we hope that this will receive your support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u393	The floor now lies with Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, 20 years after the creation of the special payment on account — which, when created, was presented as temporary — the micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be finally free this year from the obligation to pay for this genuine minimum collection, which would make smaller companies often bear a higher tax effort than large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u395	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u396	By intervention of the CFP, over recent years there has been a path of progressive reduction of the CFP (special payment on account) with a view to its extinction. We recall that in this way small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could not count on the PSD or CDS. In addition to maintaining the CFP when they were government, none of these parties followed the concrete proposals for its reduction. We know that when these parties are very concerned about companies, this concern is with large companies and not with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which correspond to the country's business fabric. We appreciate the end of the obligation of the CFP, but we need not create a new declarative obligation that creates difficulties and restricts the scope of this measure. The proposal submitted by the CFP makes it clear that, until the legally defined deadline, companies that meet the requirements and do not deliver the CFP are simply exempt from their payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u397	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u398	Mrs. Members, the CFP also put forward a proposal to eliminate the increase in autonomous car taxation rates, not only in IRC but also in IRC, and there we were the only ones — IRS, for self-employed people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u399	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u400	The PSD, which just a few minutes ago protested against the increase in these rates, has the opportunity to follow the PCP and vote on these proposals. Taxation on business activity should be based on its profit and not through more taxes on the means that enable it to develop its activity. This increase would mainly affect SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), aggravating in hundreds of euros the cost of cars they need to operate. We also highlight the CFP's proposal for the creation of a current account system between micro and small businesses and the State and also proposals for improving the VAT system and extending the VAT exemption, which will contribute to the relief of the treasury of many companies. Mrs. Members, the CFP proposals on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are fair and necessary, contributing to greater fiscal justice and the country's economic development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u401	The floor now lies with Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u402	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you again, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the greatest absence of this budget. What is clearly most lacking in this Budget are economic incentives for the economy, for employers, for companies in Portugal. It is very nice to hear here the Socialist Party say that companies are very happy with this Budget. Let's see what companies say. The CIP (Commercial Confederation of Portugal) states : « The companies have been forgotten in the next year's State Budget » ; the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal says that this State Budget is a "great disappointment" for companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u403	Look who! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u404	... the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), which represents farmers, says that the Budget « discriminates against private activity » and the Portuguese Tourism Confederation, such an important sector for Portugal, says that incentives for private investment « are insufficient ». We see very well that, in this State budget, the whole business dimension of whom it bets, of whom it creates wealth, of whom it is most enterprising is completely forgotten, as it has unfortunately been forgotten in recent years. The best example of this is the situation with autonomous taxation and with the failure to completely extinguish the CFP, contrary to what the Government had negotiated with the social partners, in the context of social consultation. Indeed, it is surprising that, even with a reduction in the CFP, in the same budget in which they fail to comply with what they promised the social partners, autonomous taxes on the purchase of cheaper cars are increased by 50 % and the companies need the most. The CDS presented a proposal to eliminate this increase in autonomous taxation and hopes that it will be possible to create a majority to ensure that companies do not leave this Budget even worse than they have entered. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u405	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, in fact, examined the reaction to this Budget, sold as full of virtues, besides government and management, does not appear to defend it. It is not only business associations such as the CIP, the AEP (Employment Association of Portugal) or even the Confederation of Trade and Services, which join in criticism. The UGT ( General Workers' Union ) calls it a « hand full of nothing », the FESAP ( Federation of Public Administration Unions and Public Entities) calls it « an achievement for public service workers », the FENPROF (National Teachers' Federation) « Lead» the Budget, the Medical Union and the Order of Nurses say it is « electorate» and that it translates into an insufficient increase in investment in health. I would like to ask: what social partners, what economic agents are they defending the budget? Oh, my God! As someone asked: tell me one, tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u407	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u408	In short, this Budget is only supported, and will be approved by management — PS, Block and PCP —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u409	So, wasn't he an electoralist? Oh, my God! Let's decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u410	... and this is done in such a cynical way that we even see the votes in a certain sense during the day and the change of the sense of vote during the night. Is that true or is it a lie?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u411	You have to spend more time in COFMA to find out what the votes are like!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u412	Having said this, we are going to a mistake and a lie: it is false that there is a reduction in the tax burden, just look at Article 203. the e to what happens with the increase in the autonomous rate of taxation in relation to some vehicles. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake and, above all, in the worst sense. It is incoherent and especially unfair that the autonomous tax rate on charges for light cars at less than €20 000 is increased to 15 %, while it is not known that, in most cases, we are talking about the cars used in the current activity of companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u413	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u414	This is not a luxury, it is not a counterpart, it is not part of the remuneration, it directly reaches the budgets and costs of companies — of all companies, because it is a blind rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u415	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u416	The impact of this measure is high and it is another sign that this budget will turn its back on companies. Finally, the Portuguese economy must grow, it will have to grow, despite the government, but not by government action. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u417	I will record this intervention, Mr. Paulo Rios!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u418	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government believes that the best news companies can receive is that they are not always receiving tax news. I know that it may cost those who are always making proposals in the tax area, but the truth is this: there is no better sign of confidence for companies than fiscal stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u420	Ah! Is fiscal stability increasing taxes on companies every year? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u421	What we have been trying to do is to use the tools with which companies are already familiar to encourage their use. That is why, for example, we propose that the deduction of retained and reinvested profits should be increased by truly lowering the IRC (the income tax of the public) to companies that, having profits, decide to invest them in creating more jobs and more wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u422	There goes fiscal stability to life!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u423	That's what we invested in. We invest in an internal differentiation—yes! — having not only a tax package of measures for domestic companies using the tax instruments already existing in the Fiscal Investment Code, the Tax Benefit Statute, increasing the regional component, but also a legislative authorization to lower the IRC of companies, depending on the costs of the salary mass associated with the inside. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last 20 years, what we have heard most from companies were references to the injustice of the CFP. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PEC will be released for all as of 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u424	The promise was that it would end!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u425	This represents compliance with a law adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, and the fact is that the CFP is no longer compulsory, which is great news for companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u426	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 209. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on Added Value. To speak on this point, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 209. that of the budget proposal comes, finally, to take a step — small — in the replacement of justice, by ending with the exemption of VAT payment for drivers. The truth is that it is not ethically acceptable for these citizens, who abuse animals, to be equated with doctors or nurses, fundamental professions of our society, which are exempt, and well, from VAT payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u428	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u429	Is it ethically acceptable for a tourist to have a tax exemption scheme when, for example, a citizen who benefits from the services of a lawyer has to pay the maximum VAT rate? The rate of 23 % VAT is what we pay a lawyer to ensure the realization of our rights. This is a factor that, because of the costs involved, inhibits and limits citizens to resort to justice. It is incredible that in a country where citizens have to pay 23 % of VAT to access justice, fundamental and indispensable law in a state of democratic law, tourists are exempt from the payment of this tax. As a matter of urgency, we propose the end of the exemption from the VAT payment for tour workers — included in the budget proposal — as well as the reduction in the VAT rate applicable to services provided by lawyers, through our proposal 108 - C. This tax exemption for the Tauromáquia industry, which is based on animal abuse for entertainment, is an incapacitated form of the State financing this business, creates a gross ethical distortion and promotes huge tax injustice. The sighted facts and the cornetadas cannot disguise what is evident: bullfighting is violence. Therefore, while the torture of animals is legal, the State must at least have a neutral position, with responses that remove any tax benefit from this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u430	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u431	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, last night, on the end of the day's televisions—on the CDS, we still keep this strange habit of watching televisions and reading Portuguese newspapers, see only! -,... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u432	Good sense of humor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u433	... I heard Mr. Prime Minister say, in a proclaiming tone, that today's PS is always the PS, the PS of democracy, the PS of freedom, the party of the "hand". [[At this moment, the speaker raised her right hand.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u434	It's the other hand, it's not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u435	I confess I was confused. What PS of democracy and freedom is this? It is the ‘handy’ party... The speaker raised her right hand again. [[It's the other hand!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u436	...that the pencil, now pink, to censor a part of Portuguese culture and exclude cinema, shows within the country and the bullomachia of culture? Or is it the "hand" party that says that not all culture is culture, because of civilization?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u437	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u438	Or is the «handy» party, after all, the one that only holds the pink pencil to risk shows within the country and the cinema of culture? For the CDS, defending freedom and democracy means not to discriminate, not to act prejudicely, not to impose a dictatorship of taste.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u439	I'd say! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u440	For the CDS, the whole culture is culture, regardless of the taste of each one, of the personal beliefs or of the wills of whom he commands. We therefore urge the PS, the « hand » party,... The speaker raised her right hand again. [[It's the other hand!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u441	... to throw out the pencil and vote in favour of the CDS proposal, which rejects the VAT of taste and proposes the true VAT of culture, for the corner, for the dance, for music, for the theatre, for the cinema, for the Tauromachy, for the circus, in a fixed or mobile enclosure, on the coast or in the interior of the country. Soon in the afternoon, we will see who really is on the side of freedom and democracy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u442	Mr Jorge Campos of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the proposals of the Left Block on VAT reduction for artistic and cultural performances — and only those — are aimed at facilitating support for culture in compliance with constitutional requirements. The 6 % rate should be applied, yes, to corner shows, dance music, theatre, cinema and circus, excluding, of course, entries in pornographic or obscene performances, exceptions already covered by the law — some have been distracted from this matter for some time. As for the bull machia, our position is known. We have repeatedly stated our opposition to this activity, we voted, not long ago, in favour of the ban on tourists and therefore consistent with this course we have been doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u444	‘Coherents’? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u445	... we propose to increase the VAT of the tourtas to 23 %, precisely because we find ourselves at this time and reject what we consider to be an absolute anachronism. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u446	The Bureau was informed that the Government is still seeking to sign up on this point, for which Mr President-in-Office for Parliamentary Affairs has spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u447	Mr President, I am sorry that I failed to do so before, but I would like to write Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to intervene if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u448	Still within the framework of Article 209. the, has the floor Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u449	Mr President, once we have already started discussing this issue, I would like to reaffirm the Government's proposal, because it is important to underline the point we are starting and the point we are proposing. We started from a situation where the sale of tickets for artistic shows is at the intermediate rate of VAT at 13 %. This situation, as a result of a decision taken in the past Parliament, is the starting point. What the Government has proposed in the State Budget for 2019 is that tickets for singing shows, dance, music, theatre and circus pass from the intermediate rate to the reduced rate of 6 %, keeping tickets for other shows at the intermediate rate. This seems to us to be a responsible and secure path, although it is certainly not the easiest way, and we do so because, with the introduction of the requirement for fixed premises, we give a sign of support to the permanent structures that provide cultural services. However, I would like to point out that this matter, with regard to cinema, is much more complex than a question of taste, prejudice or whatever, Mrs Vania Silva. The cinema has two very different realities: the reality of large exhibitors and the reality of small independent rooms. Small independent cinemas have very little capacity to deduct and, in these circumstances, in terms of competition, they would be in much worse situation if they moved to the reduced rate. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, with regard to cinema, have a proposal for legislative authorisation to create a flat-rate scheme to promote the deductibility of independent rooms and thus create conditions for, where appropriate, making the other amendment. We choose the safest and most responsible path. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the entry into force of our proposal on 1 July 2019 has nothing to do with an economic vision. The gentlemen. Members who approve the proposal for 1 January will have to justify why in relation to tickets sold for the seasons a fee is applied and then for tickets sold from January another fee is applied. They should be careful to realize that this change takes time — at the same time — to be more balanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u450	We turn to Article 211. o — Add to list l annexed to the VAT Code. Mr Luís Testa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u451	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the cultural dimension of a people is built by what you see, by what you hear, by what you read, but above all by what you feel. The cultural dimension of a people is only truly great if when what you see, what you hear or what you read admits, in itself, feelings of contrary signs. Culture is a construction composed of diversity and only democracy elevates it, because only democracy understands the value of multiplicity, the value of plurality. We do not know, we do not know that Tauromachy itself is a cause of disagreement, controversy and debate. However, for the Socialist Party, debate, controversy and disagreement do not go away, cannot distance, the tauromachia from the cultural reality of a country in which much of its population and regions see it, hear it, read it and, above all, feel it as its cultural heritage declared. The more scholarly or more popular cultural manifestation that the Tauromachy assumes must find parallelism with all the most diverse forms of culture, regardless of the differences which, by assumed, find freedom as to its appreciation in the Members of the Socialist Party. The discussion on seven percentage points of the VAT rate cannot close a discussion about the nature of a spectacle, the moral or the ethics of those who defend it, or the civilization to which we all, without exception, belong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u452	It's the PS bench tournade lobby!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u453	This debate is based only on the precise terms in which it is proposed, only on the variation in which it is presented, and for these Members, who subscribe to it, there is only one possibility to guarantee freedom — to defend equality without privileges and without discrimination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u454	Still within the framework of Article 211. Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposals for culture VAT eliminate the discretionary and discriminatory character of the State budget. Discretionary as to the nature of the enclosures, i.e. the same show is subject to 6 % VAT if it takes place in a theatre room and 13 % if it is held in a public garden or if it is held in an outdoor party in a province village, which we cannot accept. Discretionality and discrimination, too, concerning the type of show, according to tastes or contingencys of negotiation, even reaching the uniqueness of the Socialist Party, in this matter, being against the State Budget, being defended by the Left Block and the PAN. All this instead of considering, as we propose, what the law determines about what are performances of an artistic nature. In both cases, therefore, this discretionaryness is eliminated, at the same time that the ability of the government is overcome and unmasked, in what is already a standard, of initially announcing something, it seems something, and then in the budget text, if it is found that, after all, it is different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u456	According to the entries recorded in the Bureau, the next one will be the last of this debate unless any Member or Member of Parliament or Member of the Government intends to sign up. For intervention under Article 221. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes ( IEC ), Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u457	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bring to the debate proposals 99 - C and 115 - C on VAT and excise duties on sugared beverages. By 2019, the Government again moves on the special taxation of consumption to sugared beverages, redefining the progressiveity of tax, and doing so following the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which supports the effectiveness of this measure in reducing sugar consumption, especially in children, and in saving costs for health systems. The NAP defends this proposal because it believes that taxation should be at the service of public health. But once again the government has forgotten about more sugar in the market: chocolate milk. But we came here once more to remember. Let's see: taxation affects several soft drinks, some known as ice tea, which have a quantity of sugar of 45 grams per litre, the equivalent of nine sugar packs. These refrigerants pay IABA (tax on alcohol and alcoholic beverages) and 23 % VAT. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a model, on a card, with a package of 'ice tea' and nine small sugar packages.]] The chocolate milk, which in some brands contains 120 grams of sugar per litre, thus containing almost three times more sugar than the icetea, the equivalent of 24 sugar packages, does not pay IABA and the VAT rate is 6 %. The speaker again displayed a model, on a card, with a milk package with chocolate and 24 small sugar packs. There's a paradox here, gentlemen. Members of the government! The Ministry of Health develops campaigns against obesity and diabetes, a scourge that affects millions of citizens in Portugal, but then stimulates children to drink chocolate milk. We recall that Mrs Bastonária of the Order of Nutritionists has already publicly argued, including that chocolate milk should be removed from schools, should be removed from the children. Diabetes has risen by 40% in recent years. Diabetes represents more than 10% of the total health budget in our country. The cost of medicines with diabetes is €575,000 per day, a quarter of the people who die in hospitals have diabetes. What we stand for is very clear: that the milk chocolateed by the uncommon amount of sugar it has, pays 23 % VAT and is taxed with IABA. In conclusion, and because it is too well known the position of the NAP, keeping the VAT rate reduced and not affecting the special tax of sugar consumption on milk with chocolate means being complicit in the worsening prevalence of obesity and diabetes in our country, it means increasing asphyxiating the National Health Service and means being conjugated with the use of children as a means of obtaining easy profit for the milk business. [[Congrats from PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-27.u458	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, following a request from the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization ( COFMA ), I would like to inform you that this afternoon's meeting of the Commission will start at 3 p.m., so both Members and Members will start at 3 p.m. Members will have a shorter lunch period. Tomorrow, the plenary will meet at 10 a.m., with an order of work identical to today's session, i.e., will continue the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No 156 / XIII / 4. a — State budget for 2019. First, we will proceed to the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary and then we will continue the discussion on the subject. I wish you a good afternoon to the Members and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 32 minutes.]]
