ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Today, as you know, we have on the agenda the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, but before that, there are several announcements that Mr Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of explaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I want to inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 994 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revoking Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August 2018 — Legal scheme of the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform, which falls to 6. the Commission, 996 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ban the fox and raspberry hunting and remove these species from the list of kinegetic species, which falls to 7. the Commission, 997 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the autonomy of hospital entities integrated in the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 998 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 68 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July establishing the legal regime of inclusive education. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1815 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the type of agricultural system: traditional, intensive or superintensive, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1816 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the extension of the consumer arbitration network, 1817 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent submission to the Assembly of the Republic of legislative initiative to ensure the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018, 1818 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Measures to enhance education and public school workers, 1819 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of the Portuguese and Luso-descendant support plan that, due to the worsening political, social and economic circumstances in Venezuela, return to the national territory, which falls to 2. the Commission. I would also like to inform you that the Member of the NAP has withdrawn the Bill No 943 / XIII / 3. a — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u3	We will enter the agenda, which consists of the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. The first question is from Mrs Catarina Martins, representing the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the context of the debate, which has been intense in the country, on the need to protect the National Health Service and reinvent it for the challenges we have in the future, the Government has made public its position to provide the country with a new health-based law. The question I have to ask you is, when will the Government deliver its proposal to Parliament? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u6	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, allow me first of all to take advantage of you on behalf of the Government to greet Mr President and all of you. Members returning to parliamentary work, in this last legislative session of a legislature that few believed would arrive here. The truth is that we are here thanks to the commitment of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP, the Green Ecological Party, which have managed to build a stable government solution, which has allowed the country to regain confidence, economic growth, job creation and have certain accounts. I think that is a good reason for us to rejoice at the beginning of parliamentary work. The defence of the National Health Service is a priority for this government. For this reason, we stopped cutting the National Health Service, de-investment by 1 % of GDP continued in the previous legislature, and we have already strengthened investment in the National Health Service by 700 million euro. These 700 million euros translate into concrete results: more consultations, more surgeries, more human resources, that is, about 9000 new human resources in the National Health Service. It is in this framework that we understand that it is important to have a new health-based law. As you know, the working group chaired by Dr. Maria de Belém has already handed over her proposal to the Government. The Government is currently examining it and, when we have completed it, we will, of course, make our final conclusion and present that bill to the House of the Republic. If I wonder if it is already this month, if it is two months from now, I cannot tell you — the government needs to appreciate a draft diploma that has recently been presented — but it will certainly be in time to meet the objective that has been underlined in this Parliament, we can have a new basic law of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u7	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u8	Mr Prime Minister, for us, this debate is important. I think it is a reflection and a debate that the country has been doing for a long time, very comprehensive, and yet it is. António Arnaut and João Semedo, even before 2017, handed over to the Left Block and the Socialist Party their proposal for a basic law and launched it in book, so that the whole country would know it in January of this year. at the time, the Block made a commitment to work on this proposal and to deliver here, at the last legislative session, to ensure that in this Parliament we had a new basic law. This was the debate here on 22 June. It will be recalled — we have talked about it — that the government has asked us some time for the Maria de Belém group to finish its work. We believe that yes, that we should give this time, because this is not a flag of a party, it is a need for all those who want to defend the National Health Service. This proposal has been in special session in the Health Committee since 22 June, and the deadline given by the Government was September. I therefore felt that we should start this legislative session by talking about one of the most important dossiers we have in our hands, which is the basic law of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u10	Even because the right is well associated with the « let nothing change». The right has already been explicitly said that its project is the privatization of health, of the SNS (National Health Service ). In fact, the basic law that was made in the time of Cavaco Silva and the changes made to the SNS by Durão Barroso have allowed this privatization movement. at this moment, almost half of the State Health Budget is delivered to the private sector and, therefore, if we do nothing, we are leaving this destruction of the SNS and this idea that health can be a business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u12	Those who believe that health is a right and not a business therefore have this obligation to change the law. That is why we ask you about the deadlines, but also whether the government follows the principle that the private and public sector cannot be competitive; the public sector is the one that guarantees access to health and the private sector will only be complementary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u13	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u14	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the Commission has delivered its work within the time limit set. We are now making your assessment and as soon as we have completed it, of course, we will formalise it as a bill. What is true is that this is a PS government and, being PS, has a vision about the National Health Service that is known. The PS was, in fact, the founding party of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The vision, preservation, defense and promotion of a National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free, is necessarily the matrix of the National Health Service that this Government will defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u15	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u16	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad you say so. We must say that we feel some discomfort and some contradiction between these words and the decision of the Minister of Health to continue with PPP (public-private partnerships), which have come to reveal, in all indicators, worse than public management, which should be the principle of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u18	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u19	I would say that all socialists expect the PS to say more than "founded the SNS". We know he did! I'm glad you did! But I believe that the responsibility today is to respond to the appeal of Arnaut, Semedo and so many others who have built, who have worked for the SNS and who know that the obligation of our days is actually to save the SNS and therefore to end the promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector and the bleeding that the private health business has done to the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there is another question I want to raise about the basic law. There is a convergence between the Left Block and the work that is being done by Maria de Belém, which we point out: the idea that an informal caregiver status is necessary, which appears in the preliminary draft, in the first ideas of the Basic Health Law of Maria de Belém. Now, as you know, according to the studies of the government itself in Portugal, there are over 800,000 people working 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, taking care of their families. A study, even today released, says that, due to the lack of public support, these families are in poverty, often in isolation, with serious problems of exhaustion. Mr. Prime Minister also knows that the bill that the Left Block presented to create a statute for the informal caregiver is in its place. In fact, this status is "pendurated" in the speciality of the hearing of the Secretarys of State for Health and Social Security. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is that, without prejudice to the design of the specialty not being ready before the State budget, it is possible at least to ensure that some of the mechanisms for protecting informal caregivers are included in the State budget. It is that if you are not in the State Budget we will end the legislature without doing anything. And I made the words of the President of the Republic myself: « It is very important that there is an informal caregiver status in this Parliament. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u20	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u21	Mr President, you know the commitment that exists in the Government's Programme on Informal Care. It is a matter that requires a very careful study, regardless of the kindness of intention. But in addition to the goodness of intention, it is also necessary to measure the cost of the realization of this intention so that we do not let ourselves remain by the intentions and turn to the realizations. I assume that it is very premature, in this State budget, to have completed the evaluation of the cost of this matter. We naturally note that there is a very broad political consensus, from the Left Block to the S. Ex. the President of the Republic, around the informal caregiver and surely the government will not get out of that consensus. But in order for the consensus not to stand by the intentions and move on to the realizations, it is essential that it be well prepared, that its cost be well estimated, that it be well executed and that it does not result in a very important prospect created among Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u22	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have talked a lot about this. I remember that the statute has been under discussion for a long time, and the government itself has given us figures, i.e., according to the studies of the government itself, in the year zero, the status of the informal caregiver has a cost of EUR 120 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u24	The evaluation is done! You know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u25	Therefore, we know exactly what it weighs in the State Budget because the evaluation is done. It is, as you know, a project that covers over 800,000 families. We're talking about people who lose their contributing career to take care of someone with disabilities, disability, disease. We are talking about people who care, even nursing, every day, who work every day in what the state should be doing, from a medical point of view and support. Therefore, I think it was important to understand whether we are going to take steps in this State budget, because, if we do not give, the statute will not be approved in this legislature. Our commitment has been to make progress now and I fear it will always be fulfilled; will we also do so this time? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u26	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u27	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we do not need to discuss the principle, because we agree on the principle. We simply have to focus on assessing the impact and its sustainability, because, as I said, the cost in the year zero is EUR 120 million, but at cruise speed it is EUR 800 million. It should not be forgotten that, if we do not make any decisions today, if we do not innovate in strictly anything else, only with the application of the set of decisions taken, and well, throughout this legislature, the next State budget for 2019 already implies an increase of EUR 1100 million in the social benefits of the Portuguese. And the first responsibility we have to ensure is to meet the expectations we have raised regarding the implementation of the decisions we have already taken: it is EUR 1100 million, which implies new measures, from the new social provision for inclusion (PSI) to the guarantee of fundamental rights, such as the right to update pensions. We will therefore continue to work with the Block, as we have been doing, with the PCP, as we have been doing, with The Greens, as we have been doing, and with the PS for the construction of a State Budget for 2019 that continues to realize those that have been the marks of all the State budgets : more incomes, better public services, better conditions for investment and certain accounts. in this equation, we will certainly be able to move forward. If the honourable Member says that the only proposal that the Bloc has to put forward in relation to the previous table is this, of increasing expenditure, the discussion is one; but, as we know, the Bloc, of course, like the CFP, like the Greens, like the PS, even as the Government, if I may, has other proposals to submit, which also contribute to influence revenue and expenditure. Therefore, in the spirit of the joint work that we have been developing for the construction of the 2019 Budget, we will certainly find the right answer to your question in order to know when is the year zero. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u28	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u29	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am glad that we have taken steps; we can say that we have frozen social spending and reached more people; and I am glad that, when we did so, we did well with the economy — the accounts of social security, rather than getting worse, have become better and employment has grown. That has been the bet, that has been the job and that is the work we want to continue to do. for our part, here we are negotiating, every day, as Mr Prime Minister knows, pensions, wages, energy issues, public services, social passes and surely also informal caregivers. I made a proposal to the Government to the Secretarys of State, who have not yet been heard in the Commission, so come here before the debate of the State budget in the field of specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u31	...to answer and study, because maybe there we can realize that concrete steps can be taken now. It would be to waste an opportunity if we had not done so because there was no government capable of responding now. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, very briefly, wanted to leave a note: as you know, today we have, at the door, the taxi sector to manifest itself. The Left Block believes that modernisation is necessary, we always defend it, but what happened to the legislation was indeed a step backwards. at this moment, there is an unlimited number of light passenger vehicles to be circulating, which prevents environmental policies, spatial planning policies and, in addition, there is unfair competition which calls into question public service obligations. However, he did not move in the sector that needed changes and to be modernised, which is the taxi sector. I believe that the government has the opportunity to correct the mistakes and there is a majority here to correct these mistakes and to have balanced legislation. I believe that the first step the Government would have to take would be not to allow new legislation to come into force until we were able to correct these mistakes, and we will be here to be part of the solution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u32	I leave one last word just to tell you the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u33	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u34	Finally, Mr President, noting the following: what happened in Tankos was of the greatest gravity and research is very important, even to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u35	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u36	I wanted to say that we in the Left Block also think that, perhaps, this case should be questioned about parallel military justice and, given that military courts have been finished for so long, it is certainly difficult to justify that today a military investigation police officer remains. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u37	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u38	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let's start with the taxis. As you know, the Government presented a bill to the Assembly of the Republic, which was discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic, giving rise to the adoption of a law. That law was vetoed by Mr President and returned to the House. The House re-appreciated the law, introduced the amendments it intended to introduce and the President of the Republic promulgated the law. Therefore, the Government has ceased to be a part of this debate and must enforce that law, approved by the Assembly of the Republic and promulgated by the President of the Republic. The Government has worked actively with the taxi sector over the past two years. More than 19 meetings were held between the working group, within the framework of the Ministry of the Environment, and members of the Government, with the taxi sector. It should be remembered that what this law of the Assembly of the Republic does is to regulate an activity that existed illegally and was deregulated. Thanks to the law of the Assembly, drivers must have a contract of employment ; thanks to the law of the Assembly, there can be no tax escape, because the means of payment must be fully electronic ; thanks to the law of the Assembly, the company must be licensed ; thanks to the law of the Assembly, the car must be entitled by a company ; and thanks to the law of the Assembly, a clear differentiation has been established between the status of these cars and that of taxis. Only taxis are entitled to a reduction in vehicle tax ( ISV ), only taxis are entitled to a reduction in single traffic tax ( IUC ), only taxis are entitled to a deduction of VAT ( value added tax) of repair costs, only taxis are entitled to a deduction of VAT in diesel, only taxis are entitled to a specific support for the renewal of cars, only taxis are entitled to a taxi market, only taxis are entitled to access by bus. That is, thanks to the law of the Assembly of the Republic, promulgated by Mr. President of the Republic, taxis have an exclusive set of rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u39	And duties!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u40	... that cannot be used by other entities, and an activity which was carried out in unfair competition and which was illegal became a properly regulated activity to ensure better conditions of competition. I leave one last note, Mrs. Member : I have a thought...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u41	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u42	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, I even have a very old and consolidated personal thought on the question of military justice, which I expressed and according to which I acted as Minister of Justice. One thing I guarantee: no institutional decisions are made in the face of topical problems. Institutional changes are always possible, but in the framework due, in due time and not in the heat of events. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u43	Speaking in heat, the air conditioning seems not to be connected, so he asked the services to provide for the purpose of connecting. [[Pause.]] Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u44	Mr President, first of all let me say a word of respect and admiration to Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, who will soon give up his mandate for personal reasons. I want to greet you for your work having always honored this House and wish you the greatest happiness. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] Mr. Prime Minister, after we've heard about management, we'll talk to the country. I am starting with a matter of a regiment nature, which concerns the fact that you are a member of the European Parliament. Ministers are obliged, four times for each legislative session, to provide information to the Portuguese on what is happening in sectoral policies. It turns out that today the Health Commission has been aware that the Minister of Health refuses to provide these clarifications on 17 October...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u45	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u46	...and you can only come on February 27th next year. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister, do you know this? And if you have, what do you think? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u47	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u48	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I am not aware, but surely the Minister of Health must have a good explanation for it. I would just like to tell you one thing: when I speak in the Assembly of the Republic, I speak for all Members and, to the contrary, all Members are equal, either from the Left Block, or from the PPD / PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u49	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will not insist on this point,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u51	You'd better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u52	... but I really enjoyed watching the "ball beat" between Mr. Prime Minister and the Left Block. [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] Mr Prime Minister, there is an issue of the greatest importance, which we must take seriously and we cannot devalue. This topic, Prime Minister, concerns Infarmed. The story begins with a decision that is yours and only yours, Mr. Prime Minister. Some nine months ago — and the Portuguese remember — Mr. Prime Minister, in this Chamber, requested by my predecessor, Hugo Soares, said and repeated: « The decision of the Government is that the Infarmed goes to the port » ; « The decision of the Government is that the Infarmed goes to the port » ; « The decision of the Government is that the Infarmed goes to the port » ; « The decision of the Government... » — Mr. Prime Minister said — «... is that the Infarmed goes to the port ». Mr. Prime Minister said, in this Chamber: « The decision of the Government is that Infarmed goes to the Port ». I said this five times! [[Five times!]] [[Now, PSD Members have shown their hands, indicating number five.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u53	He insisted and said this five times and now he heard five times as well. Mr. Prime Minister, last Friday, we heard that Infarmed is not going to port — this was the news, Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, this is your responsibility, no one else! It's your responsibility! This proves that the Portuguese can't trust his word. [[Now! It's true!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u54	The Prime Minister's word now has a very relative value.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u56	I had it, but now it's getting worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I must insist: you have not honored, you have not fulfilled, you have not respected your own word and this undermines your credibility as a politician — undermines your credibility as a politician! Those who have no word have no credibility. Mr. Prime Minister, did you miss the Portuguese word or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u58	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u59	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I will not answer you to the personal question, because I will send you in writing why I do not accept your lessons on the word. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can tell you the following... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I do not know if you are listening to me now, but I can tell you, with all ease, that if a decision of this importance could be based solely on the Government — or, more importantly, on the will of the Prime Minister — I was now telling you for the sixth time: Infarmed is going to port. [[Right now, the Prime Minister showed his hands, indicating number six.]] [[PSD protests, with delegates showing hands, indicating number five.]] It will be recalled that this decision of the Government was highly criticised: it was criticized by the President of Infarmed, it was criticized by the officials of Infarmed and criticized even by the PSD Parliamentary Group, more specifically by its predecessor, who said in particular: "When speaking in deconcentration of services, when speaking in decentralisation, these matters should be considered, Mr Prime Minister should be studied." [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As mentioned in the agreement signed between the Government and the PPD / PSD on decentralization, an independent technical committee was planned to prepare the subnational organization of the State. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen! Since the day that this debate took place, which was in December, until July, the Government has operated a working group that evaluated that decision and its evaluation allows to justify any of the decisions — the decision to go to port or the decision not to go to port. In July this House passed a new law setting up the Independent Commission for Decentralisation,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u60	... where it can be read in Article 1 ( 2 ). the following : « The Commission shall also evaluate and propose a programme to deconcentrate the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State in the territory ». In view of this new law of the Assembly of the Republic, it appeared to the Government, responsible... [[PSD protests.]] ... instead of persisting in the stubbornness of imposing the change of Infarmed to port, wait for the work of this Commission, which has a timetable set by this Assembly of the Republic on 31 July 2019. [[PSD protests.]] Will you ask: should this study have been done before? I have already had the opportunity to say here in December last year that it should have been done before. The question I am asking is this: before this technical committee, which was created on a proposal from the PPD / PSD, the government should persist in the...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u61	Oh, now it's teimosia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u62	... to take Infarmed to the Port, without listening to the committee, or should he override the decision and await the opinion of this Commission? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Our modest view is that we should wait for the opinion of this Commission. Does the PSD agree with the government's opinion or does it believe that we should not listen to the Commission and impose the Infarmed journey to port? I'd like to know the opinion of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u63	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u64	Mr President, we have seen again here the best Prime Minister of Portugal, Dr. António Costa : insinuations on the edge of the insult! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u65	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u66	Mr. Prime Minister, I look forward to your letter. If you do not disclose it publicly, I will disclose it publicly with my answer! [[PSD applause.]] And no more insinuations! Say what you have to say, if you have anything to say! No more insinuations! Mr. Prime Minister, the more you explain it is buried.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u68	Mr Prime Minister, after hearing, « the amendment is worse than the sonnet ». Mr. Prime Minister, do not transform the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, which was created within the framework of the Assembly of the Republic, into the waste bin of government failures! Don't turn! [[PSD applause.]] More, Mr Prime Minister: I will explain to you the difference between decentralization and relocation. Decentralisation occurs when one service passes to the competence of another entity; relocation occurs when one service moves from one place to another but the hierarchical bond and the guardianship is where they were at the beginning. [[PSD applause.]] This is the case with Infarmed, because the guardianship was always in Lisbon. It's not decentralisation, it's relocation! Send this process to the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, which was established in the Assembly of the Republic, is at least incompetence. Incompetence, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] Besides not honoring his word, as it became clear and evident,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u69	And it's usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u70	... doesn't even have the humility to acknowledge your mistake and the courage to assume your responsibility. Or do you have, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u72	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I will send the letter. Mr President, I have the humility to acknowledge mistakes whenever mistakes are made, and it is not now. At this session on 6 December 2017, I had the opportunity to say here : « As Mr. Minister has already had the opportunity to say, of course, the Government should not have externalized this intention without having prepared with the Board of Directors of Infarmed, without having worked properly with officials ». E « as he himself has acknowledged, surely the government has not expressed its political will to proceed with this transfer in the best way». Therefore, I do not have to recognise today that the process has been mismanaged, because I already recognized in December 2017 that the process has been mismanaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u73	But he insisted on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u74	I do so with all humility in front of the body to which I have to account, which is the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, I will repeat, because it may not have been very precise in your mind, as Article 1 (2) says. Law No 58 / 2018: ‘The Commission...’ — such an independent Commission for Decentralisation —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u75	But what does the government have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u76	......... shall also assess and propose a programme to deconcentrate the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State in the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is, Mr, the Commission, in effect, in the designation, aims at decentralization, however, in the tasks which VV. Ex.as have given it, it is also expressed the allocation to develop a deconcentration programme, through the relocation of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u77	It's from the Assembly of the Republic, it's not from the Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u78	It was precisely for that reason that the Government understood,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u79	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u80	... the benefit of political consensus on a matter in which we felt we were absolutely isolated, which was useful, rather than imposing our theimosia, to hear the Independent Commission, set up by the Assembly of the Republic. And, Mr President, I should like to say the following: it is better to take a step back to make a good decision than to continue to face a wrong perhaps decision. For us, we prefer to do what we have done, which was to wait, to listen humbly to the Commission set up by the Assembly of the Republic and, before that, to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u81	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have tried to explain to you the difference between decentralization and relocation, but in your mind you have noticed that you have not noticed. This is very clear, but I'm not going to insist, because time is short. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u83	I now refer to another topic, Mr. Prime Minister, which has to do with the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João, also in Porto. The people of Porto are certainly offended with you, for once again you have not honored your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u84	It's true! It's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u85	We know that there are children with cancer problems who are being treated without the minimum dignity, in containers and corridors of hospitals. What does this government do, Prime Minister? He's issuing an order to open an international competition. We all know what an international competition is: it will take one year until the opening of the competition, it will take another year to choose the winner of this competition, another year to resolve the claims, another year to launch the work and another year to carry it out, and these deadlines are optimistic. Mr. Prime Minister, are the port children who have these health problems going to have to wait at least five more years? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u87	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to clarify this matter. You have surely listened to the statements made by Mr. President of the Management Board of the hospital in São João, explaining why it is necessary to open an international public contest with a new project. « The previous project has a decade and, during this period, there was a reorganization of pediatric care in the large port, particularly with the opening of the Center Materno-Infantil do Norte, which forced us to re-equalize everything, including the mission of the pediatrician of São João. However, despite the project being obsolete, it would actually make life easier for us if we could work on it, because there are structures and infrastructures that will be common. But at the moment we are consulting the legal department and we must comply with the procedures of public procurement."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u88	What about the children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u89	That is to say, Mr. Member, as Mr. President of the Board of Directors of the hospital of São João, we must comply with the procedures of public procurement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u90	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u91	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am very sorry to have to tell you this, but I am not an insinuation. This whole process has been conducted by you with disrespect for children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u92	Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u93	I say more to you, Prime Minister: we are faced with an exceptional situation and, in the face of exceptional situations, solutions must be exceptional. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, why an international competition...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u94	Because the law requires it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u95	...and not the review of the project and the advance to a direct adjustment? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u96	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u97	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, who had given us. The problem is that, since the project was not contracted by the State but by a private entity, the State cannot restructure a project that is not its own. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u98	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u99	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in these two cases there is evidence of the lack of competence in the management of two very important cases, that of Infarmed and that of the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João. The first reveals that, in fact, Mr Prime Minister has failed his word and has no regard for his word and the second reveals that he has no social sensibility. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u100	We are talking about children with very serious problems who are treated in the most outraged way. I understand, Mr. Prime Minister, that you don't like to hear this, but I'm just saying it this way because it's not the first time I've been talking about this matter in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u101	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u102	And what I see is that the problems of these children will only be solved within five years and, up until then, they will continue to be treated in an unworthy manner as they are being treated. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I strongly ask you to move forward with a solution to this case as quickly as possible, because these children deserve and need us to look at them and to look mainly at their dignity and health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the PS Parliamentary Group. To put your questions, you have the floor of Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, hold this fortnight debate in the same week as the General Assembly of the United Nations and two weeks after the speech on the state of the Union, delivered by President Jean-Claude Juncker. It is of concern to realize that, in the interventions of both leaders of these important international organizations, there is, of course, a common theme: the lack of confidence in multilateralism, in the world order based on rules, in the rule of law. Secretary-General António Guterres even speaks of "disturbing the lack of confidence" and an increasingly "uncertain and problematic" world. President Juncker, in turn, refers to the « dangers of sick nationalism ». Both point out as causes of this phenomenon the growth of extremism and populism, the low confidence in international institutions and the decrease in cooperation between the various countries. then that Secretary-General António Guterres emphasizes and invites countries again to a commitment to reform the multilateral system, and we can only respond to this challenge if we are able to transform the European Union into a real global player, as Jean-Claude Juncker pointed out. Portugal, with this Government, strengthened this commitment by affirming multilateralism as one of the axes of its foreign policy and by actively contributing to the strengthening of the role of the European Union in the world. His visit to Angola, Prime Minister, while continuing to be a bilateral meeting, is equally relevant in a multilateral context, either in terms of deepening cooperation within the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ), or at the level of Europe-Africa relations, which is expected to take a new breath with the new strategic alliance announced by President Juncker. If the European Union is currently redefining relations with the African continent as priorities, recognizing Africa as the continent of the future and betting on a free trade agreement between the two continents, Prime Minister, this was the right time to go to Angola. The right moment, because Angola is one of the largest African economies, it is one of the main development engines on the African continent and has a leading role in Africa, particularly in terms of regional stability and security. The right moment, because the political, economic and social change we have been witnessing is undeniable, because there is a renewal of international credibility and a serious commitment to investment as an engine for the diversification of the Angolan economy. This visit was indeed a high time for the Portuguese economy, with the signing of the strategic cooperation plan, with the strengthening of the credit line from EUR 1000 million to EUR 1500 million and a new political-institutional relationship. But above all, this has been a high time for the many thousands of Portuguese and their families who have lived in uncertainty in recent months. It was undoubtedly a new milestone in partnership and strategic cooperation between the two countries and could serve to leverage the relationship between Europe and Africa, in which Portugal must take a pioneer position on the European side and Angola as a pioneer on the African continent. The set of agreements signed and the future State visit of President João Lourenço mean the mutual political will to pursue this new and good path, so it is essential that Portuguese companies also take full advantage of these new opportunities. on another plan, Prime Minister, unfortunately, political winds are others, much more unfavorable. I am talking about Venezuela and the dramatic situation in which our emigrant community — hundreds of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese descendants — lives, due to the increased political, economic and social instability, which is already going too long and the consequences of which have gained alarming proportions. Public knowledge is the highest level of contacts that have been established, but we would like you to bring to this Parliament your own assessment of the present relationship with Angola and Venezuela, in the context of the defense of Portuguese in the world and the international affirmation of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u106	Mr President, Mrs Lara Martinho, in fact, the highest level of relations between Portugal and Angola, with the Prime Minister's visit to Angola and the President of the Republic of Angola to Portugal, is a turning point in the future of the relations we have to build. All the acts signed reinforce the conditions of mutual trust and, above all, confidence of the Portuguese and Angolan economic agents in order to strengthen economic ties. And in fact, with Portugal and Angola, as well as with the other African countries of CPLP, we have a duty to be a bridge to meet these two continents, Europe and Africa. I have therefore already had the opportunity to announce that the first priority of the Portuguese presidency of the European Union in 2021 will be precisely that of relations between Europe and Africa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, Venezuela gives us great cause for concern. Today, however, we had good news, which was the release of all Portuguese who had recently been imprisoned in the context of police actions in Venezuela. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities has visited Venezuela four times over the past two years and will make a fifth visit on October 6. An action is under way to strengthen consular personnel and we have launched a road map that allows consular officials and social security to visit all 23 Venezuelan states to assess the situation of our Portuguese. last week, after the arrests of the Portuguese, we kept a direct and permanent contact with the Ambassador in Lisbon, with the Deputy Minister and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thanks to all these initiatives, this release was possible. But we have also been particularly supportive of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. I recall that the State budget provides for a line of EUR 4, EUR 2 million to support deprived families and, according to the data we have by July, EUR 2, 2 million have already been mobilised, i.e. EUR 2 million is still available. Fortunately, until now, of the EUR 2 million mobilised by Madeira, only EUR 195 813 have been allocated to families from Venezuela, the remaining for families already resident in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. However, we will continue to follow this situation very closely. Mrs Lara Martinho and the PS Parliamentary Group will not harm me if I do not leave the last round of insults by Mr Fernando Negrão without reply. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, as you well know, it only insults those who have no reason to say anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u107	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u108	What I wanted to say is this: I do not commit the demagogy to say that who ruled in the 10 years prior to this government had social insensitivity with regard to the pediatrics of the hospital of São João. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u109	He's committed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u110	What I'm telling you is that this government hasn't offered support to the hospital in São João. Do you know that since this government took possession of, have already been invested, in the hospital of São João, 10 million euros, in the modernization of facilities and in the modernization of equipment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u111	What about the children? What about the pediatric wing?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u112	As you should imagine, no one else than the government would like to be able to begin immediately the work in the pediatrics of the hospital of São João.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u113	So start!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u114	Why does the government not do so? For a matter of cruelty or why does the government have to respect the law? Mr President, since you have time to meditate, because you do not have time to intervene, I ask you if you are available to approve here, in this House of the Republic, a law that authorizes the government, in relation to the hospital of São João, to make a direct adjustment for the hiring of architects, already hired by private, for the revision of the project, which the hospital director himself says is obsolete and inadequate. Is it available to approve this without the visa of the Court of Auditors and also to grant the invitation to tender for the undertaking so that it can be launched as soon as possible? Oh, my God! If the PSD is available to do so, if everyone is available to approve it unanimously, we will be here to implement it, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u115	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u116	Mr Negro asks for the floor, but at the moment it is the PS Parliamentary Group that is in the use of the floor to ask its questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u117	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u118	Let us hope that the PS Parliamentary Group will waste its time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u119	But he loses the present, Mr. President, and Mr. Prime Minister asked me a question...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u120	Then I will give you the floor, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u121	Lose the current!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u122	It's 10 seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u123	Mr Fernando Negrão, there are rules in these debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u124	What are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u125	I will give you the floor after the PS Parliamentary Group is running out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u126	But it is an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, to allow me to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u127	Of course, but the answer is already given in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u128	But at least let me make the request to the Bureau, to say that, having been requested by the Prime Minister, I would like to say to you that we are going to deliver a draft resolution, precisely in this regard. I will be with the government at 100 % if the government has the courage to do what it says. But I doubt you have courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u129	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u130	It's not a resolution, it's a law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u131	Mr Fernando Negrão will respond in due time. I am returning the floor to the PS Parliamentary Group now through Mrs Jamila Madeira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u132	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the PS and the government are waiting for the legislative initiative, the bill, to solve this problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u133	Bill? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u134	There is no need for a resolution, of course! It must be a law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u135	...the way Mr. Prime Minister here explained. We arrived here, Mr. Prime Minister said, after many said we would not arrive. And we arrived here, despite the crocodile tears we heard today from members who supported a right-wing government, a government that brought to the country a reality that increased poverty, reduced Portugal's convergence with the European Union, brought impoverishment to the Portuguese. The Portuguese have memory...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u136	It's memory, it's memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u137	That's 44? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u138	...and that memory is something we must always emphasize, because memory will make us continue our work. Today, Portugal grows,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and grows since 2016, contrary to what they have said, in line with the euro zone. Portugal grows and the latest data from the Instituto Nacional de Statística (INE ) say that this is how it is, with a high review. But it grew in 2016, in 2017 and in the first half of 2018. This result was possible with the Government and with the commitment of the Portuguese, with all the effort and commitment to recover the country's direction and the investment necessary to solve the problems of the Portuguese. For all this, the Government and the Portuguese are pleased, despite today's narrative and the narrative of these last two and a half years, during which they said that in 2016 the country grew less than in 2015. The latest INE figures say precisely the opposite, and therefore we should once again stress that today we are better, Portugal is better and we will continue to work to make it even better. I also wanted to tell you that in 2017 it was demonstrated that it is possible to grow. We grew up 2, 8 % — the biggest growth in the last 17 years — something that had never been possible. But these growth and convergence impulses were achieved with budgetary rigour, with control over public accounts and also, for that reason, with a deficit of 0, 9 % in 2017, being the 2018 deficit in line with the government forecast. In short, once again, it is important to stress that the right often forgets, but the Portuguese do not forget, the Portuguese feel, day by day, the return of income, the growth of employment, the resumption of confidence. And all this with good public accounts, with national and international credibility and never stopping investing in public administration and the social state. In particular, and we have already spoken here, with the reinforcement of more than 700 million euros in the National Health Service ( SNS ), thereby ensuring the dignity of this service to the Portuguese that throughout the right government has been gradually withdrawn. Is much still to be done? Yeah, a lot is still to be done, but we're on the right track. Mr Prime Minister, tomorrow is the celebration of World Tourism Day and tourism has, for decades, made an important net contribution to the development of our country. In particular, I come from a region where this is particularly iconic. Today, Portugal is in fashion and therefore tourism is the fashion industry, contributing to the emergence of new businesses and its development in all corners of the country, from north to south. The development of tourism is very relevant and tourism revenues already account for around 7 % of GDP. The growth in the number of tourists represents by July 1, 6 % of guests, but the growth in tourist revenue represents 12, 9 %, which allows us to say that we are changing the profile of our tourist. Still, we know that tourism growth has a strong impact on imports of goods and services, leading to erosion of our external balance. Many activities could and should be developed to replace many imports, making our tourist product even more different. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to know, for a sector which has contributed so significantly to economic growth and employment, as Mr Prime Minister sees that he can continue, in order to help explore the development of other sectors that are so important to the economic growth of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u140	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, in fact, tourism is not just tourism. Tourism has a drag effect on the whole of the other sectors of economic activity, because it has to do with construction, agriculture, all agri-food production, cutlery, dishes, glass, a whole chain of services in the field of transport, etc. It has to do with a set of activities, it has to do with the development of the territory. If there is something in which the country clearly has to bet it is increasingly in the diversification of its tourist offer. Regions such as its can not only be sun and beach regions, it has to be touristly explored 365 days a year. There are regions that were traditionally not tourism, but that today, with the strength of nature tourism, can and should be a major engine of development. I am talking about, for example, all regions of the interior. Just look at what has happened in the Autonomous Region of the Azores since 1996 to realize the extraordinary impact tourism can have on the development of the economic activity of a whole region. In fact, Mr. Carlos César doesn't need to be so immoderate! You have reason to be proud of the work you've done there and that it's still being done. Therefore, tourism is indeed an essential engine, but it is appropriate, in the success of tourism, not to lose ourselves ignoring a reality often little perceived and often fought by the right, because the success of our exports is not only based on tourism. Today, we export more goods than services and that means that competitiveness in our economy has existed. We have grown and gained market share in traditional sectors, such as footwear or textiles, either in the most innovative sectors like many startups and is not despite what has been done in the last two years, but thanks to what we have done in that period. We have passed a strategy of collective impoverishment and hyperausterity to a strategy that has been able to combine the return of trust to society with the return of incomes that had been subtracted from them and reduced the brutal increase in taxes that the right has made, thus passing confidence on to entrepreneurs, which has caused them to increase their investment and, with the growth of private and public investment, unemployment has had an absolutely extraordinary fall passing from a value that was above 12 % to about 6, 7%. There are 321 000 new jobs created in these three years. This is an absolutely extraordinary number and results from an economic policy which, as we have always said, had an essential objective: employment, employment, employment. This is because it is with employment that the economy grows and it is also with employment that we sustain our public finances. That is how we managed to consolidate our public finances, but this consolidation also made a decisive contribution: we left the excessive deficit procedure and this improved our credibility, improved our rating and paid less than EUR 1400 million of debt service interest today than we had previously paid. This allows us to have more than 700 million euros of public health expenditure today. This allows the Portuguese to pay less than EUR 1 billion of taxes this year. I repeat, Portuguese families will pay less EUR 1 billion of taxes than they paid in the previous year! This is due to the success of this strategy, this policy, so we have to be firm in giving it continuity with balance. We need to have more income, more investment, right accounts,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... because this is how we continue to have more growth, better employment and less inequality. This is the line we have followed and we will surely proceed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u141	It is now the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs Cristian Assumption to ask questions. Mr Fernando Negrão, at the end of the debate can make a defense of honour, if you so understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u142	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u143	Mr President, I said I could use the floor at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u144	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u145	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, more than three months have passed since our last fortnight debate, more than three months after the debate of the State of the nation. We had a summer with many questions, many of them raised by the CDS. We have continued to witness chaos in health, transport — finally, for those who use priority trains it is not exactly so, but for the common Portuguese it will be! -,... [[PS protests.]] ... we have continued to observe a government without a word on many matters and eyes closed for what is happening around it, we have continued to observe a government that has never anything to do with uncomfortable matters on which it never has responsibilities and that, when I look at it close to some matters, then it refers to other instances to decide. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to come up with clear examples so that we are not alone in general theory. on 6 December 2017, already mentioned here, Mr. Prime Minister said several things, which he has already quoted, and one of them was this: « I will repeat a fifth time: the decision of the government is that Infarmed goes to the Port. Are you clear now? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I think that after today, it became clear and crystal clear as the water that Mr. Prime Minister, when he said this, had no decision studied, had no decision prepared, had not taken all the contours, but still insisted. Today, it was clear, Mr Prime Minister, that, in fact, the word given at some point is worth little and also made clear that he revoked it here in a rather transparent way, assuming, in his words, with humility, that he made a mistake. But there are other subjects on which I would also like to hear your position. For example, regarding the hospital in Gaia, we heard promises and words regarding the conditions of this hospital. Many months have passed and the promises have not been fulfilled. The entire clinical management has resigned. What does the government have to say about these words that it has failed? What do you have to say about the Hospital de São João, also mentioned here? How can we trust the word that this project is now going forward? How do we trust a word about the importance of palliative care when, in fact, what your Government has just done was, through a door, to revoke the access of palliative patients to continued care which, as we know, were still a support while the net of palliatives does not grow as it is properly and as it is promised? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u147	But in other areas this also happens, Prime Minister. Look, word given and written: in relation to higher education, we have a written response from your government where it is said that the degrees of Bachelor and Licensee will be equated, for all legal purposes, to those of graduate and master, in the framework of pre-Bolonha studies. This is written by the Chief of Staff, mandated by the Minister of Higher Education. We have now heard that it is nothing like this and that it was not, at least, said it! What does the Prime Minister have to say about this? What do you have to say about the teachers and the word that continues to be fulfilled and that has been assumed, repeated and sealed in the State Budget, in fact, with the partners on the left? In order not only to deal with these issues and going to more concrete issues right now, because then I will have others, I will say the following: Mr. Prime Minister, in 2016, when he slightly increased the number of students in higher education, he said it was a great victory. The previous year, it had increased much more, but finally...! at this moment, that number has gone down. What do you have to say about this and what do you have to say about the fact that the vacancies you cut on the coast have not been properly compensated inside? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u149	Mr President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, I have not revoked. I also understood that, since the Assembly of the Republic set up a committee which, among other functions, has to be assigned the study of the deconcentration of services, through the relocation of public services, between the Government persisting in the isolation of the teimosia, to transfer Infarmed to the port or wait modestly for the conclusion of the committee to check once and for all whether there is support for this decision—that I think is good—or if we should let it fall, we find it prudent to hear the committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u150	Why didn't you ask first? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u151	I recall this: when the decision was made, many people said, and I must admit that they were right, that this matter should be studied together and not in an isolated and attractive way. Well, there's the commission, so let's study! The honourable Member says that I am renouncing what she said. And I say I don't repudiate what I said, suspend what I said. [[Ah!!Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u152	But I continue to believe in it, I repeat, I continue to believe in it. If I could decide on my own, if this was an autocracy of the António Costa, Infarmed was already in port. But, fortunately, it's not,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... because the quality of the decision-making process improves with democracy. Sometimes it is hard and unpleasant for those who have opinions and convictions. It is my deep conviction that it was good for the country that Infarmed was in port, but I also have a duty to know that it is not governed by whims. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] When everyone is against and even the President of the Port House says: "We do not ask for anything! « I have to ask myself whether my conviction is true or whether it deserves to be weighed down by others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP laughter.]] As for Hospital São João, Mrs.Deputy, I believe it was clear what the government did before a project that the administration itself recognizes is obsolete, which is inadequate in relation to what happened in the last 10 years in relation to pediatric care in the city of Porto and which requires revision. As you know, this project has not been commissioned by any public entity, the owner of the project is a private entity. The State cannot legally, unless the Assembly alters it, make a direct adjustment for the revision of a project that has not previously contracted. So I said that if there was a change of law in the Assembly of the Republic, we would be delighted and advanced, because, as you should imagine, the sooner we can move forward, the better for all and also for the government that does not subject itself to this constant wear around this matter. Therefore, if the PSD does not want to enable a bill, because it is only thinking of a resolution that, as you know, legally does not solve problems and if the CDS wants to present a bill, by me, delighted — I just hope it deserves the agreement of all the banks — because we will give immediate execution. As far as teachers are concerned, we have fulfilled what is contained not only in the budget law, but also in the declaration of commitment signed with the teachers. We have sought a solution that mitigates the three variables, time, time and mode, which is contained in that statement. We have put forward a proposal for a solution and we have faced the intransigence of trade union structures when they do not accept it. What we are going to do is proceed by decree to introduce our proposal, even if it has not been accepted. More: the unions requested a supplementary negotiation and it is marked by the first session next Friday. As far as higher education is concerned, it is necessary to remember, Madam President, that it is premature to draw conclusions, because only the first stage is completed. Let's see what happens in the second stage; however, in the first phase we have the best results since 2010. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u153	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u154	Mr President, Prime Minister, I took good note that you have suspended a decision because it is not governed by whim and therefore suspended a whim. We're waiting to hear from others...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u155	Exactly! It took time to think!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u156	... that they can make that decision. But this clearly shows that there is an inability to prepare well, to study well and then to assume the consequences, which is something that Mr. Prime Minister does not like.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u158	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to hear a comment on the issue of cutting vacancies on the coast has not been compensated by vacancies inside. The balance is negative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u160	Mr President, Madam Member, I will gladly respond when the results of the second and third phases come out. at that time we can have a global assessment and see if the measure has produced the desired effects or not. When we are still one third of the process, it is obviously premature any definitive conclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u161	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u162	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, perhaps it is worth reporting better, because we are much more than a third, almost all students are placed, very few remain for the second stage. What is more, the question of vacancies does not even have to do with applying for or being placed or not; it has to do with the fact that many have not even been opened by universities in the interior, because they simply understood that it was not part of their strategy. I therefore advise you to better inform yourself of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u164	Mr. Prime Minister, another matter that concerns us very much: in recent weeks, we have been bombarded by reports of possible abuses of public and private money in Pedrogon. My question is this: has the Prime Minister ever asked for an inspection of the General Financial Inspection and he has done everything in his power to ascertain what has happened? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u165	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u166	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, with public funds there were only 24 intervention houses. in these cases, there were five cases that raised doubts to the Technical Commission, which requested clarifications to the Municipal Chamber of Pedrogão to withdraw or not any other consequences. But since the first report was issued all the documentation was sent by the President of the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ) to the Public Prosecutor's Office for, and to the extent his competences, to carry out the investigations he understands as relevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u167	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u168	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, regardless of the certainly necessary performance of the Public Prosecutor's Office, my question is whether or not to inspect the General Financial Inspection, the REVITA Fund. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u169	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u170	Madam Member, as you have said, the REVITA Fund has only supported the recovery of 24 houses. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u171	of these 24 houses, the Technical Commission had doubts about five and is awaiting clarifications. If the clarifications are not sufficient, in addition to the communication to the Public Prosecutor, it will request the intervention of the General Inspection of Finance. But for now, we have to wait for the answer. I draw attention to the following: many of the criticisms that have come to the fire, and which I myself have received, do not have to do with houses financed by public funds, but by private entities. Some of them chose to have a broader criterion than the State could have in relation to the housing needs of many families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u172	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u173	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note of how I prefer not to value this matter. We, on the side of the CDS, continue to value it and here in Parliament, to ask for all the clarifications, as, moreover, have already been requested. Mr Prime Minister, in relation to Tankos, and again we have another example of a matter that the government has devalued, omitted and in which there have been contradictions between members of the government — all this is in the field of political responsibility, I repeat, political, I do not confuse the different bosses — before the latest news, what will you do? Are you going to keep your minister? Will you keep the CEME ( Chief of Army Staff)? Will you even maintain the Director of the Military PJ, who directly depends on your Minister, or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u174	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u175	Mr President, Madam Member, as it is public and well known, I am not only keeping my Minister, but also keeping the Minister of Justice. I maintain all government members. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u176	Still in the use of the word is Mrs. Christian Assumption. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u177	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I do not understand why you spoke about the Minister of Justice, which we did not bring.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u178	He'll know why! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u179	He'll know why! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u180	It's very strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u181	I would like to tell you clearly that Mr. Prime Minister does not understand the political dimension of his duties before the government, nor does he understand the judicial and criminal dimension of the different cases, which is regrettable, but that is why we will also be here to force a political scrutiny of everything that has happened and to assume these responsibilities. I regret that I continue not to learn from this and perhaps to have such a stubbornness that, in other cases, you have been forced to recognize. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u182	Mr Prime Minister, we are not silent before this government which has very skilled snakes, which are hanging at the moment, but do not always resist and we will continue to bring this to Parliament. To conclude, and in another area of public policy, I wanted to know whether you would honor your word when, at the convention of your party, you assumed that birth was a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u183	Madam Member, I ask you to finish. He's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u184	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, tomorrow, in this Parliament, we have the schedule of a very relevant set of CDS proposals in this area. What can we count on on the side of your party and on the side of your government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u185	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u186	Mr President, Madam Member, look, I understand very well not only my functions as a minister, and you, who has already been a minister, should also understand. For me, it is very clear that, as regards matters under judicial investigation, we must wait quietly for the judicial investigation to decorate and hasten what is to be done. When everything is completed, perhaps the honourable Member has a huge disappointment about political responsibilities in this case. however, I have no doubt that it is not the responsibility of any minister to be at the door of a paddle to keep him from being robbed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is the Minister's political responsibility is, when he is alerted to the lack of security conditions, to clear up, as he has done before the assault, the work necessary to restore the security conditions. It is the Minister's responsibility, after the assault and after finding that there were problems with the Armed Forces countries, to order a comprehensive review of the entire situation of the Armed Forces countries and to organize a whole-armament relocation operation in a set of safe countries, as has been observed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u187	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u188	I will now finish, Mr President. It is the Minister's political responsibility to order the administrative inquiry, which has been done and has had the result.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u189	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u190	This is the minister's political responsibility, as is also the political responsibility of the entire government to ensure that the State institutions normally operate, as they are working,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u191	Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u192	...and this is evidenced by the normal functioning of criminal investigation. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u193	There was not much tolerance, but I thank the « thank you». To put questions, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u194	Mr President, Prime Minister, the national reality remains marked by the positive results of the measures to replace, defend and conquer rights, but also by many problems that remain unresolved. Economic growth, reducing unemployment and poverty, the record growth of social security income, all of this results from wage and income replacement measures, increased pensions and family allowance, free school textbooks, reduction of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and VAT (tax on value added) and many other measures that are positive to workers and to the people, but also to the country. We continue to value these measures. It has been worth fighting for them and we will continue to fight for them to be deepened, particularly in the next State budget. We also continue to struggle, Mr Prime Minister, for an alternative policy which is increasingly necessary in view of the evidence that government policy does not respond to the country's structural problems. One of the central axes of this alternative policy that we advocate is the exploitation of work and workers, with the overall increase in wages to be of central importance. That is what I want to leave you with the first question. We know for a long time that the distribution of wealth in Portugal is unfair and unequal, but Eurostat has been disseminating data showing that Portugal is in the tail of the countries of the European Union as one of the least valued countries in wages. In 2017, wages represented only 34, 6 % of national wealth, an unfair distribution that shows that wealth increases, but the workers who create it are the least benefiting from it. Labour income remains behind and low wages continue to be one of the main causes of poverty and the severe social inequalities that persist in Portuguese society. For this reason, the CFP has been struck by a policy that contributes to the recovery of labour income in general and by a more substantial increase in the national minimum wage, which remains devalued in the face of insufficient recovery in the last two years. The value of €600 should be enshrined long ago, but the government made the opposite option and took advantage of the support given to it to delay this objective. from the PCP, we reaffirm: a general increase in wages is needed to combat the unfair distribution of wealth. It is necessary to contradict the logic of wage restraint and stagnation and to change the labour legislation cut to force wages to fall. It is necessary to ensure the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 € in January 2019 and also to ensure the increase of wages in the Public Administration, so that no further four years of wage freeze are accumulated to the previous five. What answer does the Government have to give to workers on these issues? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u195	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u196	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, it is very clear today, when we enter the last legislative session of this legislature, the total defeat of the economic strategy of the right for the governance of the country... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and at the same time also the success of the government formula we built and the economic policy we could adopt. We still remember here when the then PSD leader said it was the irresponsible update of the national minimum wage that would destroy the productivity and competitiveness of our companies. What we are now looking at is that this strategy of valuing income was absolutely crucial to building trust, confidence generating investment and investment generating growth and employment. Social security figures do not deceive: we have a growth in social security revenue by 6, 2 %, not because we have increased rates, but because it has increased employment and income. And if 68 % of this increase is explained by the increase in employment, 31 % is explained solely by the increase in remuneration. And it is not only the minimum wage that has already risen 15 % and is going to rise again; the average wage has risen in Portugal in these years 4, 2 %, having even decreased the pay gap between the lowest and intermediate salaries—not the highest, but with the intermediates this has already occurred. This recovery has been accentuated with the strengthening of collective bargaining. In 2017, the collective contract reached an average increase of 2, 7 % in wages and in the first half of this year it was 2, 8 % the increase in wages in collective contracts. For this it was essential that we gave strength to collective contracting and administratively unlocked the extension doors. This is a work that we must also continue in the Public Administration, where, as you know, there will be an increase in the average salary in the Public Administration of 2, 9 % in the coming year, due to the mere effect of the measures already adopted in previous budgets. As you know, we are still working and talking about how to continue this re-evaluation strategy also in the Public Administration. We must make a balanced effort to respond at the same time to the need to continue to strengthen the frameworks in public administration. More: we have to continue hiring in the National Health Service, we have to continue contracts in the field of education and, above all, we have to make a major national competition for the hiring of 1000 frames, of superior technicians, so that the set of planning services, prospectus and study offices of the different ministries can be strengthened, because it is absolutely essential that we can rebuild this machine in a state that can have a strategic thought. This implies that this volume effect, necessarily, will be projected at all expenditure in the Public Administration. The news I have is that the last joint evaluation working meetings of the budget proposal have run in a promising spirit and therefore, without wanting to be irritating, I do not cease to be optimistic and therefore I understand that we will be able to reach a good agreement for a great State budget for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u197	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u198	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the problem of wages and the problem of hiring workers are distinct problems that have to have different solutions and cannot be put on an alternative. In any case, the need for a general increase in wages is a problem that is placed in the public sector, as in the private sector, as a fundamental element to correspond to the objective of having a wealth distributed more fairly in Portugal and the data confirm this need. But it is also important for the meaning it takes in the more general context of the need for rupture with the policy of right and a true alternative policy. This need also puts itself in other dimensions, the government does not take the necessary break with the right-wing policy and therefore there are problems that accumulate and that continue to accumulate in the lives of workers and the people. The taxi sector's struggle there is confirming it, with the size it takes to fight a national sector threatened by multinationals to whom the government, the PS, the PSD and the CDS have slammed the doors. The tactic of multinationals is the custom: first they scrape competition with charming operations on customers, then they impose the prices and conditions of service they want, freely deciding where they pay taxes, to pay less and less. Mr. Prime Minister, we have heard the answer you gave recently to this question and we want to tell you the following: the problem of the law is that it is the law that consumes this attack that is being made to a national sector, in favour of multinationals and we need to put the locks on the door before the collapsed house. It is necessary to stop the entry into force of a law that will destroy the taxi sector and therefore we believe that the government should reverse the position it has taken and defend the national taxi sector in front of multinationals. Also in public services there will be discontent and protests in the face of problems and lack of investment. By accepting the taxes made by the European Union and placing the deficit targets as a priority, the government opts for the strangulation of public investment and the problems accumulate. A determined response is needed to strengthen public service workers, link workers with precarious contracts, within the framework of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), and to achieve the career progression of workers with special careers. in transport, investment in material and equipment is necessary in order to solve the problems of delays and the removal of links. in health, it is necessary to respond to the problems of costs that Portuguese continue to bear, of waiting times and of the difficulties in access of users to public services due to lack of equipment, adequate infrastructure and professionals. It is necessary, Mr. Prime Minister, to provide concrete answers to the problems of medical care, the wear-out of professionals and their hiring in the deprived areas, where there is still a lack of professionals in relation to the needs of users. in social security, it is necessary to hire workers to resolve delays in responses to requests for reform. The beginning of the academic year, it is true, was not subject to chaos that occurred in other years, but the problems were many and some of them remain today. in basic and secondary education it is necessary to hire assistants, specialized technicians and invest in schools infrastructures. The freeness of school textbooks, a measure approved by the CFP proposal in 2016, however already extended to the second cycle, must continue this extension journey until it covers all compulsory schooling and must no longer be involved in a bureaucratic process and barter in incorrect options as to the conditions for reuse of the manuals. in higher education, it is necessary to respond to the serious problems of access to housing, lack of residences, shortage of school social action responses and other structural problems that prevent many young people from accessing this level of education for economic reasons. The question that is being asked, Minister, is how the Government will respond to all these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u200	I conclude, Mr. President. What options will the Government take as regards public investment that it is necessary to ensure the quality of public services and the response to the needs of users? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u201	To answer, you have the word of Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u202	Mr. João Oliveira, I do justice to the CFP : the CFP would never have allowed this government to have not broken with the right-wing policy. And if this government exists, there is because we break together with the right-wing policy and allow a policy that has put on growth, job creation and the reduction of inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u203	Look no, look no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u204	Trust yourself, man! Have confidence in yourself! He is able to do more and was able to do a lot more! And we will be able to continue to do so because there is more way and, if there is more way, it is to walk. As regards the increase in public investment, it increased by 25 % last year and is budgeted by 40 % this year. With regard to public transport, we have spoken very recently about strengthening the ships of the Soflusa (S.A.) and Transtejo ( Transportes do Tejo, S.A. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Today morning it opened a public tender worth EUR 130 million for a new signaling system and 14 new compositions for the Lisbon Metropolitan. The largest ever investment in rail is being made: EUR 2000 million. Very soon, the largest railway investment of the last 100 years will be in operation, in fact, next to its electoral circle, with the connection of Évora to Elvas. with regard to operational assistants, we changed the ratios of the number of operational assistants and hired more than 2500 operational assistants, as we also have more 9000 professionals in the health sector. The discussion on investment cannot be a case-by-case, disorderly, uncoordinated discussion and, therefore, we launched the process of developing a National Investment Programme. We have already done the evaluation in the regional councils and with the sectoral associations of the implementation of the previous investment plan. The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure is now going through all regions, all business associations and all environmental associations, with a view to a good national investment programme. We have reinstalled the Higher Council for Public Works, with a very plural composition, so that the debate to be held in this House is an informed debate on the set of investments to be made in the next decade and we count on the active contribution of the Portuguese Communist Party to the elaboration of this national investment programme, which must be financed by the European Union and also by the State budget, so that we can have a national investment programme that best fits the needs of the country's development and the improvement of national production.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u205	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u206	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This debate will take place here and the position of the CFP will necessarily be decisive and decisive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u207	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u208	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the tank case, The Greens would like to leave three very quick notes: the first, to say that the theft of weapons was something of the greatest gravity; the second, to say that we must now let justice assume criminal responsibilities; and the third, to say that we agree with the reply that Mr Prime Minister gave recently. We believe that we should be careful and that decisions on institutions should not be taken on the basis of a case-by-case basis—and we add neither hot nor hot! We went from Tankos to the question of taxi drivers, who, Prime Minister, are out there fighting and claiming something that seems absolutely fair to us. Mr. Prime Minister has just listed a set of advantages that taxi drivers have, but Mr. Prime Minister has cheated. So, what did Mr. Prime Minister do? It listed this set of advantages that taxi drivers have, for example, to be able to travel in the bus corridor, while others cannot have a reduction in vehicle tax, while the others do not have, but the cheating consists of the following: Mr. Prime Minister did not list the set of advantages that multinational operators have and the taxi drivers do not have. So you cannot talk here about benefits to taxis because you have forgotten, for example, to say that multinational operators have no limit on the number of cars to be circulating — they are not subject to the so-called quota — you have forgotten to say that these multinational operators are not bound at prices but the taxi drivers are and you have also forgotten, for example, to state that these multinational operators do not have to have a professional driver's certificate and the taxi drivers have. Mr. Prime Minister, put things on the scales and see if by chance the taxi drivers are not right and if the government is in fact not exaggerating, to say nothing else, by saying that the taxi drivers have a set of advantages that others do not have. Mr Prime Minister then came to say that the law of the Assembly of the Republic ended with unfair and illegal competition. Do you know what you're making clear, Prime Minister? It is that this law of the Assembly of the Republic, which the Government believes is the maximum, has indeed promoted legal unfair competition. That is, in our perspective, absolutely worrying! in this sense, the Greens reaffirm here that the amendment of the law is necessary and the government should not be stubborn. It seems that the government creates an aversion to the injustice created, which is not worth it, Prime Minister! Sit down, talk and put justice on the table and, fundamentally, in the country. in this particular case, this is very easy to do. One last question, Prime Minister, in the following sense: the declaration of environmental impact on the dredgings that are planned for the Sado estuary so that the port of Setúbal can receive larger ships clearly recognises a very negative environmental impact on the beaches, on biodiversity, on the ecosystem of the Sado estuary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u209	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, how can the Government ensure that environmental interests will not be completely forgotten in the face of economic interests? How will the government ensure that the dolphin community, the sardines of Sado, will not be affected, in particular, and that the beaches of Arrábida will not be affected either, because they are already having many problems with the volume of sand?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u211	You have Mr. Prime Minister's word to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u212	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I shall begin my answer by principle, that is, by the question of taxis. The Government submitted a bill to the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic discussed the bill, adopted a decree, which was sent for promulgation by the President of the Republic. Mr. President of the Republic vetoed the decree, the diploma returned to the Assembly. The Assembly of the Republic re-examined the matter, discussed, heard, introduced amendments, passed a decree and the President of the Republic promulgated that Law. It is obviously not up to the government now...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u213	It's not now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u214	...now, I repeat, it is not for the Government to repeal or amend a law which has been adopted by this Assembly of the Republic, promulgated by the President of the Republic and which has not even entered into force! Does the honourable Member say that the conditions are not equal, which, for example, taxi drivers are subject to quota, but is this a problem or is it a guarantee for taxi drivers? [[Protests of the PCP, BE and The Greens]] It is that what I know of both the position of the Portuguese Federation of Taxi, both the ANTRAL (National Association of Road Transporters in Light Cars) is the requirement of quota as a guarantee and even the refusal that the quota ceases to be municipal and becomes metropolitan, as it is obvious that it should be, in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. And the government was even cautious and did not interfere with that quota. Therefore, this is not the disadvantage of taxi drivers, it is a protection, it is an industrial conditioning, which remains, as it existed until recently in relation to pharmacy, and the doubt is whether it should continue to exist. With regard to the training of the taxi driver, training is required for all drivers, whether they work with unidentified vehicles or taxis. With an important difference: it is that drivers driving unidentified cars are not able to drive taxis, while all taxi drivers are able to drive decharacterized cars. [[Protests by Mr José Luís Ferreira]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that what the Assembly of the Republic has done, and the President of the Republic has promulgated, was to regulate an activity which was being carried out illegally, the discovery, to become a regulated activity. It is regulated because car owners have to be a company; because this company has to be licensed; because the driver has to have a training and a diploma, he has a limit of hours in which he can work and he has to have a contract of work; because there is a limited age for cars that is less than the age limit that is established for taxis; because all payments have to be made by electronic means, so that there can be no escape from the tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u215	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u216	I shall now conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, they do not enjoy rights which are exclusive to taxis, such as: reducing vehicle tax; reducing the single traffic tax; deducting VAT on light cars; deducting VAT on diesel; specific support for the modernization of equipment; the right to have taxi markets; access to the bus corridor; the possibility of advertising within the vehicle. That is, the situation of inequality exists, but it is for the benefit of the taxi, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u217	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u218	Mr President, I will now conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u219	That's the expectation...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u220	The honourable Member has had the opportunity to speak in the debate on the formation of the law. The Government has only submitted a bill, from there the debate is of the Assembly of the Republic. What was lacking was that a government that depends on this House and responds to disrespect, amending legislation which the House has just passed, which the President of the Republic has just promulgated and which only enters into force in early November. That's what I was missing, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u221	You have the floor to speak, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u222	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are still many complaints about the poor nutritional quality of meals in school canteens. In some establishments, there is a recurrent lack of variety in the composition of menus, which compromises the proper nutrition of children, which often adds an insufficient amount of food in the dish. More: we are also concerned about the resistance of some schools to provide a vegetarian option to students, as well as the disinvestment in the training of professionals who make these meals. These testimonies alert us to the urgent need to prioritize the health and well-being of children and young people. in this sense, Prime Minister, we question what measures the government is implementing to ensure the nutritional improvement of meals and school menus and when the effective integration of nutritionists in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u223	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u224	Mr President, Mr André Silva, improving the nutritional quality of school feeding is absolutely crucial for child nutrition and health throughout life. It is perhaps late to learn what we could have learned earlier, but for children in school today it is an excellent opportunity to learn it, and that is why it is essential to improve the quality and diversity of the supply of food in the canteens. of the data we have, half of the school canteens have already applied for the vegetarian option and it is being offered without restrictions. The information we have at our disposal has been reducing complaints about the quality of food served, but our aim at the moment is to try to hire a nutritionist by regional delegation, so that we can closely follow the different groups and thus continue to improve the quality of food for children in our schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u225	You have the floor, too, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u226	Mr President, this is good news, Prime Minister. I would like to ask you another question. We also found that public school does not have the ability to receive some students with special educational needs. We talked, for example, about Gabriel, eight years old, who on his first day of school was immensely happy to go to school but did not have the support needed within his school to be able to attend classes, due to lack of human resources. Only after your TV trip is that the case has been resolved. But Gabriel is not the only one. in the same group of schools, from Vila Nova de Santo André, there are at least six students with special educational needs that are only in half time because there are not enough educational support staff. Mr. Prime Minister, this situation cannot continue and we cannot accept that there are means of rights, means of students and half a public school. So, Prime Minister, we ask what measures the government has in place to ensure that the public school has the educational support assistants needed to meet the daily needs of these students, citizens who have dreams like us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u227	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u228	Mr President, Mr André Silva, in order to have inclusive education it is essential that students with special educational needs be able to participate in the school. Fortunately, there has been an increase in the number of students with special educational needs in regular education, and in the last two years this number has increased by 7%. Moreover, following the recommendations of the United Nations, we have recently adopted a change to the law of special education. It is a new law that is being tested and which is an important burden for schools and a very significant effort, both for teachers and for assistants. in the framework of the strengthening of operational assistants in 2500 workers, to which we have already done, part of them, precisely aims to strengthen the number of operational assistants to support children with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u229	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u230	Mr President, I will now conclude. in the portfolio of the ratios that we have established, we take this into account, and that is why more than 2500 operational assistants are in our schools today, also to respond to this need which you have mentioned here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-26.u231	We have thus reached the end of this fortnightly debate. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. with a debate on demography required by the CDS-PP under Article 64. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, and proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the Drafts of Law Nos 986 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on Added Value, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, in order to exempt from VAT all promoters of day care, kindergartens, homes, among others irrespective of their legal nature ; 987 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2017, of 21 June, in order to promote a bonus to companies that follow practices friendly to the reconciliation of work with family life, gender equality and birth ; 988 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November 2003 in order to restore the reduction of the municipal tax rate on buildings of taxable persons with dependent dependants as a percentage of the value of the property; 989 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days and the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child; 990 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviors; 991 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 4 / 2007 of 16 January to reduce or remove the sustainability factor to pensioners with two or more children; and 992 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amend the IRS Code in order to restore and strengthen the family quotient; and also draft Resolution Nos 1800 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor initiatives on family and birth; 1801 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated policy of birth and family valuation; and 1809 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee for analysis and discussion of ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. At the end of the debate, we will have a possible vote. We are thus at the end of our work. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 59 minutes.]]
