ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. At the first item on the agenda we have an urgent debate required by the CFP on the beginning of the academic year. To open the debate on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Education : Education is a fundamental right. It is a determining condition for the individual and collective emancipation of youth and people. It is an essential condition for the economic and social development of the country. Public school, free, universal, democratic, inclusive and of quality for all is an indispensable tool for the realization of this right. The CFP addressed this urgent debate on the beginning of the school year, considering that serious problems remain, as a result of decades of right-wing policy, whose effective resolution is denied by blind obedience to limits, charges and constraints that block the need for investment and true appreciation of public services. On 1 October 2014 the PCP intervened here in Plenary, saying that, three weeks after the beginning of the classes, 239 teachers were missing in Amadora's schools, 16 in a Lisbon group, 19 in a group in Olhão, 30 in the Artistic School António Arroio and that on that same day, students, parents and teachers at the National Conservatory Music School were making a protest to ensure the hiring of teachers and the appropriate material means. This is not the picture, then aggravated by many other aspects, which we currently find. Still, it is not possible to say that everything runs on wheels. There are problems affecting workers, students and their families. And what answers does the government have to give, Minister? What does the government have to tell teachers about the full counting of the time of service today, even today, when a warning of strike will be delivered to the Ministry? The Government cannot say that there has never been any commitment to count the time while the freezing lasted, since it was precisely one of the last aspects to be discussed with regard to the millimetric wording of the one who would be Article 19. that of the State budget. It was not a time of service count, it was a time of service, a particular feature that was not of mere importance and took hours of discussion. This is not a question to « kick forward», it is in the Act of the Budget of the current State and must be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u4	And it is not worth saying that «it is very simple, we do not have money for all the time of service», because, Minister, we are paying EUR 23, EUR 9 million of debt interest per day, i.e. nearly EUR 1 million per hour! They're options. Also the situations of teachers who have been hired to term with incomplete hours by the Ministry of Education, who do not see the time recognised for social security purposes, have to be resolved. Will the Government generalize the understanding expressed by the decision of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court which has sentenced the Ministry to account every 30 days of monthly work when calculating monthly social security benefits? The lack of educational action assistants as well as administrators has been felt from north to south of the country. There are reports of manifest impossibility of effective compliance with the ratios due to the lack of replacement of workers in a low or even retirement situation. It is estimated that about 3000 assistants are still missing so that the public school can respond as much as necessary. It is true that the door is better than the previous one and the PCP has contributed to this. But it is not enough to say that the ratio is dynamic, because there are still many failures to be met, many support services that are not functioning, many schools "at medium gas", and the use of cleaning hours, partial times and end recruitment is not the answer. The lives of specialized education technicians continue to be inappropriate for heart patients. The retraining of several of these workers while awaiting regularization of their precarious link has been made impossible by the unjustified closure of vacancies and by the reduction of the hourly load in different groups of schools, in a context where specialized technical support needs have been maintained or even, in some cases, increased. And what will happen to all those who have entered into office outside the limits of the temporal window? How will schools deal with the fundamental changes that the Government intends to implement and generalize at the level of flexibility and inclusion without a real strengthening of material resources and without a considerable increase in the number of workers with decent links and schedules? Mr Minister, in the joint position signed between the CFP and the PS, was included, on a proposal from the CFP, the progressive freeness of school textbooks for all compulsory education. Thousands of families benefit from this measure, which results from the proposal of the CFP in the State Budgets for 2017 and 2018, and which we want to extend to 3. the cycle and secondary education. However, there are problems that need to be overcome. There are cases where the manuals of 1. the cycle, for reuse, are not in conditions and cases where there are difficulties at the level of the platform and of the valve system itself. What measures will the Government take to simplify and unbureaucratize the distribution of free school textbooks, ensuring that all, new and reused, are in due condition? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The alternative that the CFP defends and proposes for education is due to the strengthening of investment, the effective exploitation of public school and its workers, the defence and respect for their careers and their rights; the creation of dignified conditions for all those who study in it; the deterioration of the conditions of families, which are still within the European Union, of the most direct costs with education. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not give up and continue to fight for public school. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u5	Mr Tiago Brandão Rodrigues spoke on behalf of the Government at the opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the last day before the beginning of autumn, I meet for the third consecutive year, before you to speak to you about a school year that began, also for the third consecutive year, when it must begin, at the end of summer and before autumn comes. This is the best response that everyone — government, teachers and education professionals, students and schools — can and should give to the high and crucial investment that Portuguese citizens make in their education. from there it is so important that the country mobilizes, as it has been mobilized, so that the educational success of all is the rule and never the exception. Only through education professionals and educational communities can educational success be much broader than school success. Therefore, this government values professionals who dedicate their lives to education, values in words, values in actions and values in the resources it allocates to them: in words that, instead of enemies, celebrate them as first architects of Portuguese education; in actions that instead of excluding them, they place all the confidence necessary to the good success of flexibility, autonomy and inclusive education; and in resources, so that they can progress professionally, as the progress of the country they serve. In the last two years, 7000 teachers have achieved the permanent bond of work that they have long pursued without success. Instead of five, there are now three contracts necessary for each teacher to reach the stable contract that he undoubtedly deserves. More than 119 music and dance teachers already benefit from this stability this year, which has so far been completely closed to them. For the first time, teachers in Portuguese Gestual Language see their professional status corresponding to the role of teachers, which has long been theirs. This year, more than 46 000 teachers know, again, after a long time without knowing it, what it is to have a career progression; more than 11 000 teachers are already being repositioned in their careers, in a process that started this week, with their administrative procedures, fulfilling the word given to trade union organisations; and all teachers will be told, in circumstances similar to those of other state servants, an important part of the period when their careers were frozen, feeling all the justice of this wage freeze finally ended. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the other professional classes that are dedicated to education, there are now nearly 3,000 precarious workers who will cease to be. Yesterday, it was given in this context — and I can announce it here — authorization to schools to launch the tender for 2700 operational assistants. Also another 100 psychologists are in schools to help them fulfill their educational mission, and from this year onwards we finally have an operational assistant in each pre-school education room. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having talked about the teachers and other professionals of education, then we talk about what is even more important: the students. We all agree, or almost all, that pre-school education is the key to educational success for the future. We continue the way for all children from three years of age to have a vacancy in pre-school education, opening this school year plus 50 rooms and 1250 vacancies, mainly in areas with greater shortage, thus reaching 5500 vacancies and 220 new rooms at the service of the highest guarantee of school success in the near future, just pre-school education. The public school leaves no one behind because the public school is really everyone's. So in 2018 / 2019, we will reach half a million students with free school textbooks and create new references and practices for inclusive education, putting all students to learn together as much time as possible and not segregating each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Learning better implies a more personalized teaching with more flexibility. Therefore, we have extended the successful flexibility, at the same time as we have reduced the number of students per class, in all schools, in all years of basic education cycle, so that each teacher, each teacher, has more time and autonomy to teach each of his or her students. We talked about teachers, we talked about students, we talked about schools. They are our schools that prove that education is not abstract, before it is proven, every day, in a concrete social context, in a given territory, which is that of each one of us, showing Portugal's commitment to all its members, regardless of its socio-economic condition and regardless of whether they live on this coast or on my interior, in large urban centers or outside them, carrying out such territorial equity. That is why it is so important that we have managed to reach more than two hundred schools throughout the country in a combined investment between the Ministry of Education and the municipalities within the framework of PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), which exceeds EUR 350 million. There are thousands and thousands of students today, and even more thousands and thousands of students tomorrow, who are better served by a national education service that, by fulfilling this Government's Programme, we will leave more robust, effective and more supportive than those who, too often in an urgent manner, had the responsibility of getting out of the intensive care they had condemned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the first round of the debate, with requests for clarification from the various parliamentary groups. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words in this urgent debate on the beginning of the school year are of support and encouragement to all those who, in a ritual of hope, give shape to this beginning. Repeated every year, it is a magical collective moment, always renewed, of faith in education and in the contribution of younger generations to a better future in Portugal. The first message of the PSD is therefore to thank all those involved who, in their educational mission, believe, work and engage in the development of the country. They do so beyond the parliamentary debate and often despite the action or inaction of the governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u10	It would not be fair to say that this Government has not put forward some interesting ideas that deserve careful analysis, such as the existence of support measures for school textbooks. However, between the idea and the practice, I intervene in haste, sovereignty or irresponsibility, leading to confusion, instability, uncertainty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u12	What did we see in Parliament today and yesterday? Mr Minister, with a critical self-reliance of the Government, without recognizing at least the problems that he has to face in this school year, and the parties of the majority of parliament more concerned to realize that it is all right, or that if he is not, it is not their fault! - of something else. Watch out for our young people and children, Minister! Podere, get out of this self-congratulatory cage where it closed and where it fights in the name of I don't know what ideal of a student, which has little to do with the students who look at us—for you, Minister! — so that they can have some stability and security in a world that little offers them. Today we are well aware of the problems facing us at the beginning of this school year. We remember the lack of employees in schools. The government did not, in due course, alert the impact of the shift from 40 to 35 hours a week, did not alert the drastic impact of medical casualties, which this year reached the highest value of the last 20 years and left schools without adequate functional response capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u14	We recall that in this post-austerity period there were and continue to be closed schools, some by the parents of the children, due to lack of resources, in the municipalities of Almeirim, Braga, Évora, Porto, Póvoa de Varzim, Viana do Alentejo. We recall that this was the year with the largest number of teachers' strikes since Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, with 10 trade union organizations to deliver today to Mr.Minister the warning of the new strike for the first week of October, a mystery at this new time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u16	We remember that austerity has a new garment—they call it captivating, with their "what" of temporary, almost accidental. Does the Minister believe that the dozens of recommendations made by Parliament to the Government on school premises have nothing to do with the policy of drastic reduction of public investment in education? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u18	Mr. Minister, in 2015, the public investment was 127 million ; in 2016, in his Government, it was 44 million ; in 2017, 56 million. Minister, this is public investment in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u20	We remember that schools start the year with many unanswered questions in inclusive education—where are the resources to meet the diploma? — or in curriculum flexibility, where confusion prevails, with the new matrices already presented during the full period of holidays of schools and teachers. Why is this government running to announce vocational education as one of the priorities in education when public school directors have to bear the costs of the courses they have taken and to take the risk of having to suspend at all times for lack of funds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u22	Without answering this question, in a gesture of deep irresponsibility, the Minister announced this week that he intended to get 50 % of secondary students in the professional sector, while his Ministry responded to those same directors who had no solution to the financial problem. Mr Minister, we would all have much to gain from this parliamentary debate if we were to leave with the awareness that you are aware of the important, urgent problems in education. Unfortunately, for students, this is not the case. Distributing manuals free of charge to those who need it is commendable; for everyone, even those who do not need it, it is only regrettable, because so many other needs are lost in the noise of demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u23	The only democratic school is the one that treats the same rich and poor way!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u24	Pedagogic reforms are not made with revolutions. It is necessary to analyze, evaluate, then follow and adjust the direction. Teachers need training, schools need follow-up, students need time. Legal regulations cannot leave in July and August and are expected to apply in September.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u25	On the matter of time, I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u26	I conclude now, Mr President. The task is difficult, but what we ask is little, Minister. We ask for a little humility, nothing more, to begin with! It is only with humility that we can seriously recognize the weight of responsibility for the task we have in hand, as well as the problems and limitations that, say what is said, exist. We owe this to the students, we owe this to the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u27	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u28	Mr. President, I will conclude. Mr. Minister can't everything, he doesn't know everything. As far as your intentions are concerned, stop, weigh and understand that the seeds of education are not for the Minister to reap. The future belongs to today's students; do not deprive them of it, please! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u29	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Education, State Secretaries, we have approximately 1,300 000 students, 133 000 teachers and educators, 4700 educational establishments. These global numbers are sufficient to show the dimension and complexity involved in another beginning of a school year, but there is also the greatness and relevance of the work. To guarantee all our children and young people the concrete right to learn more and to learn better — this is the cause that mobilizes many people throughout the country: teachers, educators, employees, families, specialized technicians, school directors, city halls and also political leaders in the Ministry of Education. We all welcome this collective work for another school year that opens normally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No school year has begun without difficulties. We always want to be better, but we know well how normal we live today from the jokes that others have promoted in the past. Whoever does not see the difference, or forgets his own responsibilities, or needs to become more attentive. There is still, we know, a lot of work to do and we will continue to do so, as the Minister of Education has already shown once again today. It is that poverty continues to be the sharpest predictor of school failure, and we cannot accept it, which is why we have been so committed to strengthening school social action. It is necessary to complete the universalization of pre-school at the age of three, continue the path of revalorization of vocational and artistic education, continue the recovery of education in adult education, continue to deepen inclusive education, implementing with serenity and progressiveness the new legal regime, with the same determination that have always shown everyone involved in this very demanding but stimulating, challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The main strengths of the current government's education programme are being consolidated. We placed it in the centrality of public school, when others wanted it to be complementary to private school, but we managed to consolidate a fundamental option. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u31	Today, no public school classes are taken to artificially inflation private schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we made changes in the evaluation, ending with tests that no civilized country had and expanding the moments and areas of measurement to prevent difficulties in time and to revalue disciplines that others had despised, the right accused us of facilitating, but we managed to consolidate the option of putting the evaluation back to the service of learning rather than being at the service of the series and selection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we put on the promotion of school success and when we launched the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility, so that schools and teachers have better conditions to carry out their mission, using their knowledge and experience to respond to the concrete students who have before them, many have contravaporated, but today many more find a new meaning for their professionalism and walk there for better educational results. When the Ministry of Education advanced with the essential learnings, because we can't stay cross-armed in the face of too extensive programs that sacrifice the effectiveness of learning, some have returned with the papal of facilitation, but today we better understand the importance of this path, oriented by the student's profile at the exit of compulsory education, that the right had forgotten because the compulsory education of 12 years had never been firmly embraced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also moving forward on a consolidation course. All we have to do is necessarily continue the work of valuing public school professionals and their careers. Much has been achieved in this field, particularly in the fight against precariousness, but we are aware that the years of the crisis have left marks that we will not easily recover. Many companies have failed and it is not possible to resurrect them as if nothing had happened. Many people have been unemployed and even for the many who have already returned to work, the sacrifice and suffering represented by this unemployment cannot be eliminated. [[PSD protests.]] Researchers, scientists, have seen their work interrupted by lack of funding and, even if they can resume, no one returns this hiatus to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u32	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u33	Many had to emigrate, even if they did not want to, and there is no way to erase the effects of this in their lives. And the careers of many public servants froze. Many do not respect this and make noise when we talk about these problems, but the country does, because it knows what it has suffered and knows how difficult it is to overcome this phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, we don't have a time machine to redo the past. We could resume a path to the future, put the clock back in motion, but we do not have a time machine to rebuild the past. What we can do, and we are doing, is to bet on professionals again, on their appreciation, on their careers, on their dignity. That's our compass. Work for our children and young people, realizing the right to education, and to that end value the professionals involved in this mission every day. The normal opening of another school year encourages us in this way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u34	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u35	...not to rest on what's done—and that's a lot! — but to continue demanding to do as much as we need to do and what we will do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u36	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Deputies, in 2014, former Minister Nuno Crato presented to the former Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, his request for resignation for the chaos that caused at the beginning of the most chaotic school year that there is memory. In 2018, we are far from that reality. There were problems—it's true! — there were schools that did not open for lack of employees, there were weaknesses in the model of allocation of free school textbooks, but in general, and until the PSD recognized it here yesterday, we are in the 2014 antipodes. I believe that the words used by the PSD were « relative tranquility ». This year, the schools opened the doors with the teachers placed on time, and it was good for the government to recognize with humility that for this it contributed to the extraordinary internal mobility contest that was approved here at the government's wake and that, with this humility, it would also draw a lesson for what must be done in relation to the unfairness of discounts on the social security of teachers hired with incomplete hours. Does this mean everything's okay with schools? Don't! It means that the problems that existed at the beginning of this school year are not topical problems, they are fundamental problems. These fundamental problems relate, on the one hand, to the lack of staff, the insufficiency of operational assistants and technical assistants. And I would like the Minister here to explain the number he presented in that rostrum, of more than 2700 staff, because we know another number, we know of more than 2500 staff. Unless, in the meantime, he decided to hire another 200, we couldn't explain the number 2700. But we would also like to know if you are willing to review the door office, which is insufficient for the allocation of all the employees that are needed at school. Secondly, the fundamental problem, the ghost that haunts schools at the beginning of the school year is the arrogance with which the government refuses to negotiate the deadline and the way in which full recovery of service time — 9 years, 4 months and 2 days — of teachers. The pre-announced proposal by the Government to move forward unilaterally only with a small part of this time— 2 years, 9 months and 18 days—, does not respect the government's commitment to teachers and does not respect the parties here in Parliament also adopted a resolution and made that commitment to teachers. Therefore, the Government has an obligation to negotiate and make this recovery of 2 years, 9 months and 18 days only the first phase of a full recovery of the teachers' time of service. In short, Mr Minister, much of the fundamental problems of public school have to do with budgetary choices. And what we wanted to know was whether the chronic subordination in education is the choice or will continue to be the choice of the Minister of Education. We know that subordination in education is the choice of Brussels — that we already know — what we want to know is whether it will continue to be the choice of the Minister of Education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u38	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Mr Minister recently said in the interview that this was a time of consolidation and visibility of the educational policies of this government and, indeed, we have even seen the Minister several times. First, we saw you opening the school year at the Basic and Secondary School of Celorico de Basto — entitled to selfie with Mr. President, and everything, as it is part of the air of the times — and I saw you, too, in a school in Paredes de Cura, his land, but there he was no longer taking selfies, was hiding behind Mr. Prime Minister, when confronted with the unions. But, in fact, I was there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u40	Shame on you, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u41	I assume that this is what I referred to, when I told the public the following sentence: « (...) the approach to the end of the legislature has natural implications in terms of dialectics among actors of democracy». That must be what you mean when you hide behind Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u43	In the case of the CDS, we are not actors, we are representatives of the citizens, and that is part of monitoring the action of the government. Specifically, Mr Minister, the State assumed that this year it would provide free manuals to more than half a million students and would be implicit, I would say, that this supply would be made in time and time. It happens that there are several schools where classes have started more than a week ago and there are students who have no manuals. The valleys only began to arrive in September, the errors on the platform are of various types and the process with the booksellers is highly bureaucratic. Therefore, I would like to know what it is today, on Friday, that Mr Minister has to tell the parents of these students, the teachers of these students and these students, to whom Mr. Minister also likes to give a voice, in respect of this commitment, which was taken not yesterday but in November 2017, soon, with long time to be properly realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u45	What are you going to say? Are you going to say the same thing to the teachers? That he never cheated on them, but they didn't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u47	...and perhaps it took more time to receive the voucher and rescue it in the booksellers? Oh, my God! Or will you say the same thing about the employees, that is, that there is actually a law, there is a ratio and, if reality does not correspond, is no longer your responsibility? Oh, my God! Or is it even going to say that it has radically resolved the question of the weight of school backpacks, now that no books are to be put there and the students no longer have to take the backpacks back? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u48	Exactly! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u49	And it will end by saying that we all live in serenity and normality and that, therefore, it will certainly be the Parliamentary Group of the CDS that is looking for problems, although the parents of the school children here can come back here to explain to you that their children do not have manuals and that the lack of material will start for the week. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u50	Mrs Angela Moreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are here to respond to the problems that exist in public school and no major responses have yet been given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u53	Mr Minister, days before the beginning of the school year, stated, in an interview with the media, that the Government fulfils the legal ratio on the number of employees in schools and meets the conditions for the school year to start normally. How does it justify, Mr Minister, that, days later, we have support services for schools that do not work in full, closed schools and many complaints from the educational community about the lack of these workers? Oh, my God! The government has said that it meets the ratios but that there are a large number of prolonged casualties. in this sense, why are these workers not replaced, as provided for in the General Labour Law in Public Functions? This question raises other questions, Minister. We have been aware that these substitutions have been refused when required. Why? Why has this lack of educational action auxiliaries been filled by part-time employees? Oh, my God! I illustrate with a recent case, that of the Conservatory of Music Calouste Gulbenkian, Braga, in which the director decided not to open doors on the first day of class, due to insufficient educational action assistants, but yesterday the Conservatory was strengthened with seven workers— guess! ... — part-time. Mr Minister, the reality of these officials is grueling, exhausted by the conditions in which they work and the precarious work they have been living for too long and with a high average age. When will the government ensure that there are enough workers to respond to the specific regular and transitional character of each school, assuming that the current portfolio of ratios is not the most appropriate? When do you think the Minister replaces workers on long-term or retired leave without resorting to precarious links? And now when is a career with adequate training for public school workers? Mr. Minister, a matter of no less concern is the employment situation of the specialized technicians of education, necessary in public school, who remain consecutive years with precarious links, with constant uncertainties as to the future of the profession. In June, the CFP asked Mr Minister a written question on the renewal of the contracts of specialized technicians in education, to which he replied, saying that he would renew the working links of these workers. So how do you explain, Minister, that some of these workers have not seen their renewed contracts? What is the criterion used to renew a worker's contract, to the detriment of another, often in equal circumstances? Mr Minister, what response will the Government ultimately give to the need for considerable strengthening of workers, with stable links, decent working hours and fair public school careers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u54	You have the floor for the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, when we made negotiations on the last State budget, we negotiated, The Greens and the Government, the reduction of the number of students per class in basic education and left for the next State budget, i.e. for the State budget for 2019, the reduction of the number of students per class in secondary education. [[Pause.]] Do you hear me, Minister? It is that, then, you may not answer; if you do not listen, I am afraid you will not answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u56	I always reply to Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u57	Then I'll go on. What I want to know is whether the government is still available to promote this progressive reduction in the number of students per class and, in this particular case, in relation to the State budget for 2019, we will in fact encourage this objective in order to promote better learning conditions in our classrooms, as we had agreed in the negotiations of the State budget. On the other hand, Mr Minister, we must again put the question of the full counting of the time of service, regarding the defrosting of progress in the careers of teachers, but not only, but also of other careers that are, exactly, in the same circumstances. What the Greens would like to say was that the freezing of career progression was in fact a brutal injustice committed and passed by a previous PS government and a previous PS government and CDS. But be careful, Mr Minister, because the form of thawing can also become itself, in an injustice and, curiously, I have never heard any member of the Government, nor the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of Education, saying that it would be unfair to count 9 years and 4 months of effective service time. That is to say, I am starting from the principle that Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of Education, the Government and the PS in their entirety consider that it would be fair to count in fact all the time of service provided. This would indeed be the correct methodology. The government, in this process of thawing and negotiating, between quotes, because this is not a negotiation when one unilaterally demands a solution to the unions, what you are going to say is 'no, no! We will not count all the time of service, we will count only a small part of that time of service provided». And what's the big argument? It is that we have no money! » And what does the government do? It begins to empolate the numbers—I always mistrust when it is so, Minister! — to have the reason you don't have. So they move forward with the number of 600 million euros and say "We don't have 600 million euros! When the Minister knows that this number is wrong, because he knows that not all teachers have progressed at the same time, at the same time, in the same year. The Minister knows this and knows that the overall number is not that of the 600 million euros, he knows that this number is perfectly stacked. But even if it were, if that logic were fair...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, even if that was the number, if that logic were fair, and it was the country's duty to actually make that payment. Now, Minister, also bear in mind that there is money for a lot of things. For PPPs, for debt interest, for banks, there is always, always, always available money and there is not for teachers or for other careers, which are in the same circumstances? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u60	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u61	Do you ignore a rule of the State Budget? Do you ignore a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic? Do you ignore the memorandum with the unions? Mr. Minister, attention, because you can also stay in history as the Minister who committed, after all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u62	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u63	...a brutal injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u64	On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, in this important debate on the beginning of the school year, which the plenary gives us the opportunity to have with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, representing the Portuguese, it was essential to say clearly that we cannot make the great victories of this legislature a problem, above all. This Government, as it had written in its Programme, defrosted the careers of all civil servants on 1 January 2018. This government has negotiated with teachers, in the extent that it can, the reconstruction and reconstruction of its freezing, during successive State budgets, from 2011 to 2017. This Government is currently serving the Portuguese, Portuguese families and our students of 1. the 6th. the year of education, with the freeness of school textbooks. This government undoubtedly and without any hesitation bets on vocational education as a whole body path, not being secondary, not being peripheral and central in our public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the various issues that have been raised here, I want to say clearly that the freeness of school textbooks is absolutely essential. This possibility of returning income to families, which is what we are doing, is something that makes us very proud, because this is the way our national education service must undoubtedly do. When school textbooks are free for everyone, we call that unique and simply equity. This is how it happens in the National Health Service, this is how it happens in our national education service, because, in everything that is universal and free, we must walk, above all, to have this equity that we truly believe that our public school and our compulsory education must give to all and to any of our students. I think Mrs Margarida Mano, very likely, would like to see, perhaps even in compulsory education, in public schools, indexed to the IRS, as has been leveraged by new political movements. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] I register some proximity to Mrs. Deputy's bench to new movements that try to move away from Mrs. Deputy's bench. But if everyone pays taxes—and this is very important—if everyone contributes, if they are all citizens, then they certainly deserve the same effort as the State, Mrs Deputies, and we believe in this vehemently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are still failing, because we have not yet reached where we want to go, but I can tell you that the new system of reuse of school textbooks and the new system of vouchers — and we have discussed it very often, Mrs Deputies — aim, above all, to protect families, which are the most important ones, with the essential return of incomes, because, in the end of truth, families have been sacrificed repeatedly, for four years, which have been a real nightmare for them. But this reuse of school textbooks also allows system sustainability. In addition, the valleys not only allow the schools of the whole bureaucratic process to be disbanded, but also give us the opportunity to make—as we have often discussed in the Commission—the small bookshops come back to play, something we know that did not happen in the two years since the implementation of freeness and in many of the municipalities that already go beyond what is given as free by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u67	It is really important to have this measure of free school textbooks seen as positive. We know that it is a positive measure and that it is quite different from the policy of free school textbooks that existed during the XIX Constitutional Government and even during the XX Constitutional Government. Do you know how many free manuals the PSD and CDS government gave?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u68	What about yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u69	None! None! This is therefore a truly important measure and we have taken truly significant steps. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I would like to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all something very significant: if the honourable Member is sitting in a selfie with Mr President, I myself will be able to speak to him on one of the important visits that Mr President makes to our public schools, which dignify our national education service and also give visibility to our public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Member, I do not hide behind cameras or hide behind Mr. Prime Minister, I am always with Mr. Prime Minister. But I say one thing: I never put myself in front of Mr. Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to tell you something else, Mrs Member: if perhaps on one of the television channels I was behind Mr. Prime Minister — that is, in life, there are always many perspectives — it was enough to change the channel, because, of course, in another channel I would be next to and even apparently in perspective, in some way it might seem forward. But what I want to tell you is that I am always with Mr. Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has already debated with me several times—I could say « dozens of times», perhaps if I say « hundreds» I am exaggerating», but what I can tell her is that she knows that I have never forgotten and that we will always be here to continue discussing up to the free of charge of school textbooks. What did the honourable Member want? Did you want the valley system not to exist?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u70	I wanted the books for the students!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u71	What I know was that the honourable Member wanted to be free of charge from school textbooks; what I know was that the honourable Member wanted the small bookstores and the small bookstores not to come into play; what I know was that the honourable Member wanted the large economic groups and the large publishers to do, above all, their usual play, but that is not admissible, Mrs. It's not admissible! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] With regard to the other issues that have been raised, I wanted to say that we will not stop until we dignify our vocational education and not put it on the altar that it deserves. We have worked very hard to ensure that measures to enhance vocational education happen and that we can promote greater recognition of vocational education and vocational qualifications in the labour market. That is why, above all, this dialogue and this dialogue are absolutely fundamental. We continue to strengthen the educational diversification strategies in vocational education, giving access, including, to Portuguese non-mother tongue (PLNM) and Portuguese gestual language (LGP), for the first time, in vocational education and also deepening the definition of territorialized criteria, so important for those who are from low density territories. Everyone will remember the announcement made here by the Prime Minister regarding the abolition of discrimination in access to higher education in relation to vocational education students, which we also continue to encourage. I wanted to tell Mrs Margarida Mano that what I said about the 50 % target,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u72	Again! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u73	... that I think that we should all try to pursue and achieve, it has already been announced two years ago, on the first axis of the National Reform Programme ( PNR ), which undoubtedly points out that we should walk to get 50 % of our students to finish secondary education by professional ways. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, this is not a novelty, it is only a novelty because we, like Country, have failed, Mrs. Member, continue to fail and need more. So we will continue to dignify vocational education, continue to put vocational education at the heart of our concerns, and then we will not fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u74	There is no 1 € public investment for professional education!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u75	With regard to the requalifications, which have been discussed here, I am also very proud to be part of a government team that has made the requalifications of this Excel document that we have spoken here many times, which were, above all, in the paper, could have been removed from the paper, now being on the ground 500 works. As has been said here—and it is true, because the schools so asked us—we opened a school in Melgaço, we visited some requalification works that are finishing, in Leather Walls...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u76	« Some works»! What about the ones you didn't do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u77	... we were in the parish of Branca in Coruche, the Secretary of State was in Vialonga and Vila Franca de Xira and I was also, with Mr. President, in Celorico de Basto. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] There are 500 schools that are currently being retrained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u78	Ah! 500 schools? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u79	In the district of Mr Pedro Pimpão there are many schools to be re-qualified and in total there are 500 schools — 500 schools! — EUR 350 million is a mapping that has come out of paper. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it must be said, in favour of the truth, that everything was also done in collaboration with PSD autarchs, with CDS autarchs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u80	It was thanks to the PSD's autoarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u81	... that had the hombreity and the sobriety of leaving for the work that needed to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the second round of this debate, with further requests for clarification. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Pimão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a first part: Mr Minister, I do not understand how you have come to say that the beginning of the school year went as well as you say and then, in your speech, exalts itself and makes insinuations perfectly free. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u84	I don't understand! There's some inconsistency here. I also do not understand how there is an urgent debate in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the opening of the school year and there is no word—which is now required—for thousands of students who, from pre-school to higher education, return to classes throughout our country. It is the student who is at the centre of education policy in Portugal and it is for the students we work daily to guarantee them the best conditions of learning. It is also due to a word of trust to teachers, educators, technicians, operational assistants, who have not always been recognized due value, wishing everyone a happy school year, full of achievements. The opening of the school year is always a time of creation of expectations, of new challenges, but also of some restlessness and various uncertainties—and it has already been mentioned the restlessness at the level of the teaching class, because, in this case too, Mr Minister, the word given was not honored. Mr Minister and his team, when they claim that they want to value teachers, are complicit in a campaign that socially devalues teachers, who are responsible for improving the results of our students.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u85	Look who's talking! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u86	Mr. Minister, we talked unannourably about closed schools, we talked about schools in Évora and, still yesterday, Mrs. Carla Barros told us with concern about the closure of the Peixoto Rock High School in Póvoa de Varzim. In addition, we still have problems with the diplomas approved during the school holidays, in particular with regard to the effects of the new curriculum reform, which Mr President of the Republic has deserved repair, and with regard to inclusive education, which has caused difficulties and doubts about the application of the new guidelines. Mr Minister, the hot topic of decentralization has not yet been addressed here today. The framework law said that local authorities should act until 15 September, because that date has passed and since sectoral diplomas have not been approved within the Council of Ministers, that date and obligation have not been put into effect. It was important, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, that this Parliament also knew what the new responsibilities of local authorities in the field of education will be. These uncertainties include many others, including the impact of famous captivating on education, the situation of the computer and technological park, which in many cases is completely obsolete, the problems already mentioned here regarding the allocation of school textbooks, the lack of human resources, the uncertainty about the financing of vocational education classes or the lack of investment in the requalification of schools. And I am glad that he spoke about the PSD's authorships, because it is thanks to the PSD's authorships and the authorships of this country that are re-qualifying the schools that Mr Minister referred to in his speech. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u87	Where were the PSD's autoarchs in the time of their government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u88	I therefore conclude by asking the Minister of Education and the Secretary of State what concrete measures will be implemented by this Ministry to address these problems and uncertainties that arise in the school community. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u89	Mr. Deputies, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u90	Mr President, I shall conclude by asking the Minister of Education what he will do to ensure the stability and motivation of the educational agents, who, despite the uncertainties and late guidelines for guardianship, have embraced this new school year with confidence, with hope, because they believe that the bet on education is the right bet to guarantee a better future for the new generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u91	Mrs. Susana Amador from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Education, Mrs and Mrs. During this debate, we wanted to reiterate, above all, our view of school and the importance of education. Public policies of education are strategic for our collective future. The truth is that only the public school defends equity and guarantees the possibility that everyone can « learn to learn », as Antonio Guterres told us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u93	Was that before or after he left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u94	Mr. President, the right has devalued the public school ; CDS and PSD have emptied human resources, stopped works, planned not, did not map Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who criticize so much now and so much complain about more schools and more human resources are the same ones who can only account for subtracting. On the contrary, we are multiplying answers, adding results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With you there were cuts of wages, but with us there were replacement of wages; with you there was precariousness, but with us there is the link of more 7000 workers of the education system;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... you have never frozen careers, but with us there has been thawing, and more than 46 000 teachers will see your careers frozen and will progress at least one step further.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u95	Have we never frozen races? Oh, my God! But it was the PS who froze them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u96	The PS has always affixed in public school and therefore respects teachers, parents, students and autarchs, because they are all building a more equal school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : We have had a very important concern at the fight against poverty since the beginning of this Parliament, which, for us, is never deterministic. Those born poor don't have to die poor and the public school is our social elevator, it's in public school that promotes equal opportunities. Therefore, the successive strengthening of school social action in all the PS budgets has been fundamental, because we know that poverty is a predictor of school failure, which we have come to reverse, and, therefore, we have reduced retention, we have increased success and we also have the lowest numbers in our history as regards school dropout. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we have more social action in school, with 260 million euros in this budget, plus 8 million more than in 2016; we have the creation of a third step of social action in school; we have school meals now also on school holidays and during school breaks; we have free distribution of fruit for 1. the cycle, now extensible to preschool; and we have the platform of school textbooks, which had initial problems in some schools. The delays in school textbooks are now discussed, but what needs to be discussed, above all, is this civilizational contribution that the PS, with the support to the left, managed to give this country, fulfilling our Constitution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u99	We have free manuals for 1. the cycle and now for the 5th. it's 6. years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are 500 000 students covered, supporting our families and proving, once again, that, when the Socialist Party is in government, there is an increase in social action at school and there is a recovery of income on the part of all families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u100	You've wasted your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u101	Finally, Mr President, this is the school year under the sign of the implementation and consolidation of new measures, which will be implemented at the curricular level and also for teachers and for the improvement of conditions in schools, as Mr. Minister of Education said. It was possible to strengthen social action at school and, at the same time, to launch works in 500 schools with the support of all, of the government and also of our authorities, of local power, who always knows what matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u102	It's a play!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u103	I would ask you to finish, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u104	Above all, we need to find answers in our school to a world that is changing, educating students with values, students with ability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u105	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u106	We are always next to everyone on the right side of the public school. This is our side! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u107	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u108	Mr President, Minister, as you have not answered my question about subordination, I would like to put it into practice. My question, very specifically, is whether the government will budget for education more than it did in the previous year, contrary to what has been the reality of recent years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u109	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u110	... non-exclusive responsibility of this government — indeed, it was much more serious in the years of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u111	You know that's not true! The numbers don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u112	Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the Legislature we shared an objective: to change the back to the basics—and the back to the basics was that learning focused on learning to read, write and count—to the museum of the 19th century curriculum archaeology. We shared this objective and the Minister counted on the Block's contribution to the end of the 4th exams. the year and the 6th. the year, for the end of the ghettos vocation, to begin with the note of Physical Education to the average, to the profile of the student, and certainly did not find our opposition when decided to advance this school year for the generalization of the Project of Autonomy and Curriculum Flexibility (PAFC). Therefore, it is with the responsibility of those who have supported him in this shared objective that we ask him whether we are building a new curriculum paradigm of teaching and comprehensive education or whether we are adorning the old paradigm with curricular approaches. It is that, Mr Minister, since we are one year from the end of the legislature, what is asked is whether this change is to take seriously. If it is to take seriously the new regime that coexistes with 1989 programmes and 2012 goals, imposed by Nuno Crato, and that everyone said they were inadequate, as, in fact, pointed out the National Council of Education. If it is to take seriously a regime in which the essential learnings belonging to the new paradigm have to live with extensive and incomprehensible programs, which served as a basis, as a matrix for the construction of school textbooks, as asked a researcher at the University of Minho. If it is to take seriously a curriculum autonomy without the democracy of those who must exercise it in school, of the teachers, to be able to build this curriculum autonomy, as Professor Paulo Guinote asked. And, above all, Mr Minister, what I would like to ask you is whether, even well-intentioned, some curricular flexibility can be taken seriously in a teaching system that is hostage or kidnapped by an evaluation focused on examinations and the dictatorship of notes as a form of access to higher education. All this says the Left Block and also pointed out the study of the evaluation of the pilot project of curriculum flexibility. It was also said by the Director of the National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools ( ANDAEP ), the President of the National Confederation of Associations of Parents ( Confap ), the Director of the IAVE ( Institute of Educational Assessment ) and the Director for Education of the OECD. So, Minister, one year from the end of the legislature, with the shared objective...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u113	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u114	I shall finish, Mr President, by relying on the flexibility that it has also attributed to the other parliamentary groups. As I was saying, with the shared goal that was to break with the conservative paradigm of the past that impoverished our students' school and teaching, what the Left Block here asks is whether we're going to take seriously and whether we're going to make a real reform in the path of modernity or whether we're just going to decorate with modern elements the conservative paradigm that we inherited from the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u115	Within the time available, the CDS registers two Members, who will naturally be able to use the word. First of all, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u116	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, recently, Mr. Minister made unacceptable statements here... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u117	... about my intentions and what motivates me in my speech on school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u118	It was a shame! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u119	Let me tell you that what I did here was to give a voice to the bookkeepers and to the parents I have talked to and that they have brought to the CDS several complaints. If Mr. Minister has anything to say besides empty insinuations, say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u121	If you know anything about integrity or my motivations, say! If you don't, I have something to say to you: ensure that students have school textbooks already! Do your job, government! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u122	You now have the floor to Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u123	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, teachers have memories, remember-CL - they will - they won't forget. The teachers do not forget how the school year ended, revolted, do not forget how they began the school year, angry and unjust. They will not forget the convenient coincidence of the OECD report to be published immediately following the announcement by the Minister of Education, which stated that only 2 years, 9 months and 18 days would be accounted for. They will not forget that the Ministry of Public Protection has not corrected or clarified the proliferation of distorted statements arising from the media resulting from poor interpretations of the OECD report. They were harmful statements,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u124	Danosas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u125	... that appeared in newspapers and televisions, in large and apparently concerted cases, which distorted the content of the report, induced error and manipulated public opinion about the salary reality of teachers. In fact, teachers receive less than the average of colleagues from other OECD countries. The values presented were not real, since it is evident that the salary table of the teaching career in use was not considered and the freezing of careers was completely ignored. Teachers will not forget that, in the absence of any denial, numerous articles of opinion, sensitivity and negative sense were immediately produced in the face of their legitimate claims. Teachers will not forget, so little, the exercise of hypocrisy of the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u126	This problem is not with us! Mr. Minister is there, on the government bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u127	... which, together with the CFP, on the one hand, cry for the fulfilment of the content of Article 19. the state budget, with regard to the mode and time limit of the counting of the time of service, and on the other hand do not impose it on the PS government, which depends on them to govern. And they have already stated that, and I quote, «this is a matter that will not be included in the next State Budget», i.e. suddenly the Block has come to the conclusion that there is no budgetary sustainability, since it does not require the Government to submit the essential data to fully assess this non-sustainableness, as the CDS continues to defend. Mr Minister, the teachers hope that the rulers who protect them will use rigour and exemption. The teachers will not forget that they are leaving them to surrender to themselves and much less that the Minister has claimed to defend them intransigently and that he has not, nor does he.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u129	Mrs. Members of the government, be sure: teachers will not forget this socialist government and left-backs, teachers will remember-CL- themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u130	We're still singing a fashion! We're stuck!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u131	In order to finish and because the CDS does not forget, it was announced on 11 July that the Government and the trade unions would examine the actual costs of the recovery of the frozen service, for which a technical commission would be set up. So, and for future memory, it is necessary to ask, Minister: what is done of such an analysis of the actual costs of the recovery of frozen service time? After all, how much does the thawing really cost? Where do you stop the data produced by the so-called 'technical committee' and when you get to know this Parliament, the teachers and the Portuguese, Mr Minister? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u132	Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, we cannot begin this intervention without registering that, with regard to the concerns which the CFP has raised with regard to the educational action assistants and the situation of the specialist technicians, in particular the renewal of their contracts, the Minister said nothing in response to the first round.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u135	We therefore reiterate the concerns we have raised here regarding the lack of educational assistants in schools and the situation of specialized technicians who do not have their contract renewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u136	You need answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u137	Mr Minister, these situations have repercussions in all schools and have a very specific impact on the issues of special education. There is no inclusive education, Minister, without human resources in schools. There is no inclusive education without the material means, without the educational means and without the technical means necessary to meet the needs of all these children and young people with special needs. Special education teachers, employees, psychologists, gestal-language interpreters and other special education professionals, such as speech therapists, are missing in public schools in our country and need to properly monitor children and young people with special needs. These are problems that persist in special education. Mr Minister, there are children who, at the beginning of this school year, do not have the follow-up they need and are due to them because there are no special education professionals in schools. There are therapies that were discontinued from the previous school year for this because there are no technicians in schools. There's the kids, there's the need, but there's not the technician.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u139	There are children and young people who are not in schools because there are no educational action assistants, there are children who are at the door of schools or who move inside with reduced mobility because there are architectural barriers that continue there and because there are buildings that did not have the necessary adaptations to meet the specific mobility needs of these children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u141	These concerns that we are putting here, Mr Minister, are not now, are not recent, are indeed old concerns for which the CFP has proposals — for all! — which we have also introduced. It is not acceptable, Minister, to continue to postpone the resolution of these problems. These children, these young people and their families need answers, need solutions, are confronted with situations of injustice and are confronted with situations that cause them distress, which causes them suffering. We are talking about the fundamental right of these children and young people to education. It was important to know what the Government and the Minister have to say to these children, what they have to say to these families when they are effectively confronted with these situations of great injustice. It is also important here to say, Minister, that the recent publication of the diploma does not respond to this set of problems and is a missed opportunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u142	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u143	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, it is a missed opportunity to respond to these problems that persist in special education. Mr Minister, one last word on the question of preschool, in which we effectively recognize the positive steps that have been taken with regard to the extension of the universality of preschool, but there is still a shortage in the public network, in the public response to preschool, which also pushes many families to private response, raising the costs of families with education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u144	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u145	There is a resolution adopted in this Assembly of the Republic, in particular for the extension of the universality of preschoolers from the age of 3 years, which also results from a proposal from the CFP. What measures will the Government take and when it will take them so that, until the end of this legislature, this resolution will be fulfilled, as is fair, to ensure the universality of preschool to all children from the age of 3 years? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u146	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u147	Mr President, Minister, it was not exactly hiding itself, but it was sheltered in the right-hand responses not to respond to the left is quite true. So please see if in the next 10 minutes you would also turn to this side, in order, in particular, to answer the questions that the Greens have asked and that I will have to reaffirm. One of them is whether the Government remains committed to the negotiation with The Greens with regard to other State budgets and that we have combined to continue in the next State budget, which is linked to the creation of better learning conditions in classrooms and, therefore, to the reduction of the number of students. We have already worked on this in principle, we need to continue for secondary school, we need to give answers in the next State budget on this matter. On the other hand, with regard to the defrosting of career progression, in addition to what I told you in the first part of the question, see, Mr Minister, what the Government is proposing in practical terms in view of the difference between the service time actually provided, that trade unions remember well that it is 9 years and 4 months, and the time the government intends to count. In practice, what the Government is proposing is to keep the careers frozen for about six and a half years — to keep the careers frozen, for six and a half years, forever! This is a brutal injustice, Minister, and this is indeed, in practical terms, what the Government is proposing! In other words, the government is not actually settling the injustice that has been created by other governments. It is also this practical sense that the government needs to have on the injustice it is creating. The other answer that has not been given here, and that, I believe, has a practical dimension to affect in such a way the functioning of the schools that the Government needs to respond to, although, through the door, the situation is better than it was, is related to the ratio of operational assistants or educational action assistants in schools, to the number for which schools draw attention, because of their shortage. However, it is important for the Government to be aware of this and indeed adapt the human resources to those that are the effective needs of schools in order to ensure better functioning and safety. All have to win with this: students, family members, teachers and professionals themselves, who are so worn out that they have to do so to respond by a number of helpers that do not exist—they are scarce! Therefore, Minister, it is from this practical reality that the Government has to raise awareness about and for which it has to respond. The Greens reaffirm here that everything that is spent on education to improve our teaching conditions does not have to be seen as spending, it is a real investment that the country makes, a return investment, which is fundamental to our development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u148	To close the second round, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u150	Start by replying to me, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u151	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, I will have come to you and I will be answering you for a long time. I can make sure he's not gonna complain. But first what is first and there are issues that must first come to breakfast. I have had the opportunity — and I have said this — to debate dozens of times with Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and I would like to say to her, eyes in her eyes, with all the tokens that my language puts in this sentence, that I did not make any insinuation and that my sentence has not been used. I say the following to you: I believe vehemently in the personal integrity of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, but I also vehemently believe that the positions of the CDS-PP in this matter have unequivocally mimicked the positions that have been transmitted to us by APEL (Portuguese Association of Editors and Booksellers), by the great librarians. That's what I mean. Madam Member, I would also like to say that I forwarded to you, as I would have done if you had been transmitted to the Government by Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo or even by Mr Nuno Magalhães, exactly the same issue, because I believe with vehemently that the CDS-PP has transmitted and mimicked APEL positions. Most likely, it's just coincidence, but the truth is that it's true. This was something I couldn't stop saying here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u152	But that's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u153	Why? Because in the past, in favour of the truth, Mrs Deputies, together with those who started this debate — Mr Porfirio Silva — and with all the other benches, showed to the Government something that was already our concern, which was to be able to protect the little booksellers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u154	What you're not doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u155	... of the game that was free. It was done very clearly. The Secretary of State, the Secretary of State and I have always said that we would find mechanisms. What I also believe with vehemence is that positions of this nature may call into question the path that we are taking among all of us. I wanted to make this very clear in my second round. Mrs Green's Member of the Ecological Party, I would like to say to you that I have no doubt that the defrosting of careers with the consequent repositioning will remain for history. On January 1, 2018, after seven years that have marked our Public Administration, and this will undoubtedly include the history of our Administration and Public Employment, which can be consulted in the Hemeroteca, all public officials, all — teachers, operational assistants, technical assistants, working here, working in schools, working in the National Health Service —, saw their unfreeze careers. Therefore, what happened was that on January 2nd, all public officials, including teachers and all those who have paradoxical activity in our schools, already had a day of defrosting their careers. This is historic and it is something that happened to the co-authorship of Mrs. Deputies, whom I thank, because I know that from the very first moment she defended the non-freezing and then fought for the thawing. That's true! That's what we did. Another question is that of the recompositioning of the teaching career, on which we have repeatedly told the story and repeatedly said the way we made it. at this time, we are working with trade union organizations. With regard to the portfolio of ratios, he never heard me here devalue the role of the operational assistants. They are absolutely central in the educational process. I do not particularly like the term « operational assistant », but I must also say that « educational action assistant » puts us on a periphery when they are in centrality of what educational action is in our schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, I meant that what we did repeatedly was to increase the number of operational assistants. By the way, I could say here that 2700 will be able to unload and the competition has already been launched. I used the expression 'in this context' to make everything absolutely clear. I believe that the honourable Member will not devalue PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ) and its importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u156	But there is a need for operational assistants!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u157	I said it because we were all waiting. in this sense, we have worked: first, we linked 300, then 250, then 1500 and then 500 more. They are absolutely essential. On the other hand, there is something important to say. The report tells us what is the number of operational assistants that have to exist in our school, with a set of conditionalities that were discussed here yesterday in an important way, because the government is paying attention to what is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u158	No one understands those accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u159	However, some of the issues raised here are not true. There is the typology of school facilities, the question of canteens and vocational schools — this is all well enshrined — and, on the other hand, there is an increase for students with special educational needs and for preschoolers. This is a dynamic system. If a school, at a certain time, has 100 students and if in the following year it has 150 students, obviously the ratio of this school increases. And we, dynamically, have to hire. In fact, almost 200 new operational assistants have now arrived at schools, which are part of this dynamism and the new contract. These, yes, are new operational assistants, resulting from the portfolio of ratios. What I can say is that the opposite never happens. If the number of students decreases, let's not say: « Come here the operational assistants, because they are already there at school». With regard to the budget, I would like to say something very clear to Mrs Joana Mortágua: I want a lot more budget for education—I want a lot more in recent years. I said here repeatedly — some laughed, others shook their heads and disappointed — that education had been inflicted by a troika +, by a troika plus, plus. What we did was make significant leaps, and we want to continue to do so. Madam Member, I can also tell you that you have a co-operation in this work and will continue to co-authorise with regard to the increase that will clearly take place this year in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u160	Investment numbers have fallen. The execution has come down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u161	What I want for curricular issues — and about that, the Secretary of State will be able to speak — is not an aesthetic change, Mrs Deputy. Aesthetic alterations are not my strength, as you should imagine. I'm very pragmatic. I'd like it clearly to be ugly working than nice not working. Therefore, it was not an aesthetic retouch that we did, it was not an aesthetic retouch that we could make the National School Success Promotion Program work in our schools, with increased flexibility, with which inclusive education is increased and increased, as well as new international practices. It is not aesthetic change that we can make autonomy real in our schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pimpão, what I wanted to say is that it is not exaltation, it is above all very encouraging. The honourable Member has told me, right at the beginning of the legislative process, that I am perfectly reminded of the fact that I was extremely optimistic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u162	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u163	He said I was always laughing. It is the spirit of putting into practice public policies for our national education service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in the fourth year of the Legislature, as in the first year, we will continue to do this work. The honourable Member said that it is also thanks to the PSD authorities that many of these requalifications take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u164	Country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u165	In favour of the truth, the honourable Member said it was thanks to the authors of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u166	It's thanks to the authors of the PSD and the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u167	Of course it is also thanks to the PS, PCP, CDS-PP. It is thanks to the authors of the PSD, such as those of other parties and the function of the government. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] What I believe is that it was not thanks to the PSD government, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What I can tell you, honourable Member, and this is unequivocal is that the alliance between the PPD/PSD and the CDS-PP has never been able to go far in these requalifications. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u168	Talk about the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u169	Mr President, I would like to know whether it is now possible to give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Education, together with the time that we still have available for the closing period.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u170	There is no reason for the Bureau to oppose this procedure. Thus, we join the final phase of this second round with the time available for closure. in this case, I give the floor, if I understood correctly, to Mr. Secretary of State of Education, João Costa. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall address the question that Mrs Joana Mortágua has raised about reform, changes in the curriculum area. There was a question about the relationship between essential learnings and goals and programs. If you carefully read Decree-Law No. 55 / 2018, you will find that it is very clearly there that the reference documents for planning, for the development of the curriculum, for internal evaluation and for external evaluation—e.g. tests and examinations—are the essential learnings and the profile of students out of compulsory education. The other documents, in this exercise of freedom which is given to teachers, appear as additional instruments, if there is any will, need, etc. , to go look for one or another subject that is not in essential learning. In terms of reference, either for planning, or for evaluation and external evaluation, are the essential learnings and the profile of students. Let us also say that for the first time and thanks to the effort of the teachers' associations who have developed this work, together with the Directorate-General for Education, we have in Portugal for every year and for all disciplines documents that can be read and worked together because they are made with a single matrix. That is, they have the same structure, they have the same format and they all open doors for interdisciplinaryness and for articulations between the discipline and the profile of students. This was a giant work in which these teachers participated. Also regarding the exercise of autonomy itself, if you read carefully the Decrees-Laws Nos 54 / 2018 and 55 / 2018 you will see that the responsibilities are shared, from the direction to the pedagogical council, to each class council and to each teacher. The educational freedom of each teacher is the main instrument safeguarded in these diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u172	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u173	She raised a very specific question about the relationship between flexibility and examinations and even mentioned an interview given by the President of IAVE. I refer here to a cycle of work meetings that we did with the directors and coordinators of examinations of each school during the month of April, in which we asked the IAVE and the national jury of examinations to do an analysis of the content of the results of the national exams, where students fail, where are the problems. And the main problems in the exams are not in the memory items, they are in the items that involve analysis, reading, writing, interpretation and inferences. These are exactly the skills entered in the profile of students and these are exactly the skills that are intended to work with flexibility. It is necessary to demystify the tests a little bit and realize that if we work with flexibility, if we work well the profile of the students, it is possible that the results of the tests will improve. All this is being done—and now I am referring to some questions that have been raised either by Mrs Margarida Mano or by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa—with a very large monitoring device. Only in the area of inclusive education have we had training and outreach sessions for psychologists, for teachers, for the directions that involve about 5000 people right now—in recent months, we have had these sessions throughout the country—and this has been accompanied by a significant reinforcement of means in schools. The special education recruitment group is the second most affected by the extraordinary linkage. A quarter of the teachers were covered by extraordinary binding. We have more than 700 specialist technicians and for the first time it was possible with this government to renew the contracts of specialized technicians to continue the work being done. Within the framework of PREVPAP, there are many specialized technicians who are seeing their processes analyzed. More: we have allocated 528 teachers to the National School Success Promotion Programme, which is an instrument for inclusion and we have an investment of EUR 19 million in the continuing training of teachers and technicians in these areas. This adds the increase of 200 psychologists in our schools to strengthen these multidisciplinary teams. Therefore, whether in the context of training, whether in the context of monitoring or in the framework of monitoring, this strengthening work is being done. It is true that the Decrees-Laws were published on 6 July, it is true that it was much later than Decree-Law No 139 / 2012, which was published on 5 July. Among these, there is a great difference — this one had a pilot year, this one had a public consultation, this one had training, this one had schools that were being prepared and that always had support from the Ministry of Education services for its implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u174	The Bureau has indicated that the Minister still wishes to use the floor. Taking into account the procedural issue just now, the 15 minutes have not been exhausted, so the Minister has one minute. I would ask you to try to be conclusive. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to reply to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who showed me that, indeed, she had a question to answer. We know that it is truly enormous the path we have to take in education, it is even a marathon work, but there is something we are proud of—and I have already said—that is the reduction in the number of students per class. If you remember, Mrs. Member, in the first year we were able to increase the co-adjudications, in 2016 / 17, and increase the proximity of work with our students. Last year, among all of us, we were able to approve the reduction in the number of students per class at the beginning of the cycle. the year of each cycle—, in the priority educational areas of intervention, in more than 130 groups of schools, those most needed, those that study the ISCTE and many academic studies on educational practice tell us that they need the most. They're coming in the second year! Also this year, and in order not to break the pedagogical continuity, we are working so that the first years of each cycle of basic education, that is, in the first, fifth and seventh years of schooling, can also be reduced the number of students per class. As far as secondary education is concerned, she knows that there are constraints. On the one hand, framing constraints...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u176	That's not what we negotiated!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u177	Madam Member, I'm explaining to you, I'm not talking about what we negotiated! I'm saying, obviously, there's a way to go. I am telling you, in fact, I have already told you, that education is a marathon road, that it is measured by the progress that each government brings to education. We believe that, among all of us, we are making great progress in education and it is important to say that it is not just by listing what inadequacies still exist. If we do not value the path we are taking, it seems that the national education service is not being improved when it is being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u178	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u179	With regard to secondary education, we must say that progress is the lowest of all our levels of education. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there will be more to be done in this respect, but we have done work, particularly with regard to co-adjudication. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u180	To intervene in the closure of the debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time, the CFP marked this debate on the beginning of the school year. We have brought concrete problems that affect students, officials and teachers in public school, concrete problems that are not resolved with good intentions, but with concrete answers that the government continues to fail to provide. What is required is that the government fulfils its responsibilities and does not continue to delay the resolution of the problems identified. The Minister stated that he would count part of the teaching time. You cannot ignore the service time effectively provided, in which the teachers were at school with the students. This was not the commitment that the government has made, nor is that what the law determines. What the law determines is that it negotiates with the representative structures of the teachers the mode of application. Does the government honour the commitment it has made to the teachers? The Government must comply with the State Budget Act for 2018, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, including with the favourable votes of the Socialist Party. The Government must hire educational action assistants—yes, educational action assistants who are at the centre of educational and educational activities in schools—and specialized technicians, who are lacking in schools, respecting their rights. It is unacceptable that the government should not set an example and that it itself should promote the hiring of workers to schools with highly precarious links for 2 or 3 hours! As for the freeness of school textbooks, this is a measure of enormous political and social scope, which must be valued and extended. The freeness of school textbooks, approved by the PCP proposal, allowed significant steps in equal access and school frequency and contributed to the elimination of inequalities among students. Today, it covers more than 500 000 students, allowing to alleviate the enormous expenses of families with education. The way must be for extending the free manuals to 12 years of compulsory education, as we have been discussing with the government in the context of the State budget for 2019. The public school faces problems that come from behind and that result from the options of the right-wing policy of successive governments. The current school year does not start with chaos that marked other moments, but continues to lack tranquility and much less normality. We all remember — including the PSD and the CDS, who today want to whiten their past actions — from beginnings of school years in which teachers were not placed. There was also a year in which in December at the end of 1. the period, there were many students without classes, because they still had no teachers. The PSD and the CDS were responsible for a deep investment in public school, for the dismissal of thousands and thousands of teachers, for the enormous shortage of employees, for the encouragement of precarious work relations, for the segregation of students, for the suspension of works in schools, leaving many of them, year after year, to function in containers, while increasing transfers of money to the private. But the present is not normal! It would be normal for all schools to start the school year with adequate means to ensure a quality teaching-learning process, but that did not happen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new phase of national political life has allowed, in the area of education, to take positive steps, although shy, due to the limitations imposed by the PS Government's options. The PS government is not free from constraints, which are preventing investment in public school. You need to go further! It is necessary to break with the right-wing policy and to establish a true alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that values the public school and its workers. A free and quality public school is needed for all, truly democratic and inclusive. An alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy is needed to ensure the strengthening of investment in public school, providing it with the necessary means and promoting the requalification of the school park. It is therefore necessary to value and dignify the workers of education and their careers and respect for their rights; to hire educational assistants and specialized technicians necessary; to combat precariousness by integrating all workers with precarious links that satisfy the permanent needs of schools in the career with effective public bond; to implement a model of democratic management of schools, based on the principles of eligibility, collegiality and participation; to guarantee the universalization of pre-school education from 3 years old, through the expansion of the public network; to strengthen school social action; to free school textbooks in compulsory education; to effectively include children and young people with special educational needs, through the strengthening of the number of teachers and technicians, the establishment of multidisciplinary teams and investment in an early quality intervention; to reduce the number of students by class, which cannot be replaced by the pre-change of the PSD and the CDS; to value the continuous evaluation; to combat neglect and the lack of school curricularative activities; to promote the use of school curricula, and to promote the use of children's opportunity; This is our commitment! That's why we fight! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u182	We have thus reached the end of the urgent debate required by the CFP on the beginning of the academic year. We say good-bye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government. We turn to the next item on the agenda, which is reflected in the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII. It guarantees the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( amends the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966 ). Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This radical, pseudo-moralist and irresponsible left... [[PCP protests.]] ...in this initiative, led by the Left Block, he presented one more of his initiatives, which, in our perspective, is serious. The lack of good sense is reigning! With this initiative taken and voted in a hurry — indeed, it was a legislative taboo — they wanted to sink the aircraft port, but they did not worry about the sinking of all the ships, all the small ships and small vessels that exist everywhere. What a lack of good sense in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u184	It's really on the high seas!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u185	These kinds of laws made in measure and in haste are precisely what must not be done in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u187	They wanted to make a law — which must be universal — which had only one objective: to go against a concrete business. What an irresponsibility! Now, let's see: the communication provided for tenants for the enjoyment of the right of preference was from 8 to 180 days — the PSD still proposed that it should go to 15 days — which meant that all business, all the contract-promise of purchase and sale that circulated in our country, established in good faith, ended the day following, with your legislation. What an irresponsibility! Another measure: the enjoyment time of the right of preference was from 3 years to 0 days, i.e., it was enough to rent today to keep the right of preference. That's how it was! The PSD proposed 2 years and we hope there is some good sense today, especially on the part of the Socialist Party. It was not clear whether the right of preference was for commercial leases or whether it was for residential leases. Well, finally, that's what we have here... In the right of preference in non-horizontal property, according to the proposal presented to us today, the value of the part of the building corresponds to the permillage of the place. Just realize, too, the consequences of this initiative: a tenant rents an already degraded house, which was less valuable when he rented it. With this rule, you'll have to buy the house for the most expensive value. How absurd! Another case: we imagine a building where one house is worth more, another is worth less — the ground floor is worth less than other floors, a house turned back is worth less than a house with better views, so are the market rules. in this perspective, the houses are all worth the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u188	What a market!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u189	How absurd this legislation is! So let us stop what we are discussing, in this total irresponsibility! At least the Socialist Party assumes and follows common sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u190	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This decree we are discussing responds to a radical change in the property model and part of a finding, that the right of preference no longer existed. And it didn't exist now because the apartment for sale wasn't self-registered, now because when sellers couldn't escape their assignment, they suggested that the rental could only be purchased if all the apartments or all the buildings for sale were purchased. This is what happened to Loyalty, for example. No one here believes that anyone who lives in an apartment has at least the possibility of buying 277 buildings, more than 2000 fractions — EUR 425 million. Very sincerely, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just having fun with people! And this is exactly what real estate business has done: enjoying people and making rights disappear! This situation constitutes a gross adulteration of the intent of existence of this right, and the Left Block proposed the amendment that corrected this distortion. We got the majority that corresponded to these two questions and approved them in July. And now we look at them again and the Left Block presents the clarifications that guarantee the essential response to the two reservations of the President of the Republic: the first is a strengthened right only for housing purposes; the second, we implement the definition, a priori, of the location to be preferred through permilage. We don't withdraw, we clarify. We further clarify that any sale that has not yet happened is covered by the existence of these amendments as soon as they enter into force; the finalised ones are not. On the right hand side, which led to the initial diploma, the Left Block did not expect any defence of the tenant's rights. When housing confronts the property, we already know that CDS and PSD respond and the more dependent on finance, variability and better instability. But we didn't count on the PS back. It is not that they have not done so before and in the same molds, favoring the large groups. in this case, they approved two substantive changes in July and in September they approved one and revert to the other. This reminds me of the « cannot, but can». In order to clarify, here too — I am talking here about the sale of portfolios of funds — Fidelity, New Bank may again invoke the loss of non-contractualization of the business and the right of preference to cease to exist again. This proposal cuts down the initial Decree, it is a retreat in the guarantee of the rights to which we have consensually arrived and allows the funds to continue to ridicule the rights enshrined, the State and the residents. And all this with the Socialist Party's patronage. However, from the Left Block, we are available to create conditions to assign this preference right to all residents. We are not available to go back to guaranteed rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u192	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Torres, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. President of the Republic sent a message to Parliament, where he made a set of considerations on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII and requested two clarifications to the Assembly of the Republic. From the first hour, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group stated that it respected the President's decision and that it would consider the arguments put forward by the President in the context of the return to this House of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII. However, what the PS Parliamentary Group wants to make clear is that the central core of the proposal adopted at the end of the previous Legislative Session remains intact: to balance or create a system of equality between the leasers of buildings constituted in horizontal property relative to the leasers of buildings constituted in vertical property, i.e. to open the possibility of exercising the right of preference to tenants who are in real estate constituted precisely in the same vertical property. This was, and continues to be, the core of this proposal, and this proposal continues to welcome the majority, or consensus, of the parliamentary left. However, we believe that the veto of Mr President of the Republic constitutes, as he could not fail to be, an opportunity for improvement to consider the quality of the diploma as a whole. And sometimes there are subjects which, in the first instance, can lead us to the deepening of direct housing, when, in fact, they can have less positive effects on the lease market, which is, of course, a fundamental condition for providing the right to housing. We need more real estate in Portugal in the rental market. The dynamisation of the lease market with rules is, of course, important. Therefore, without prejudice to the central core of the bill of the Block of Left, voted at the end of the previous Legislative Session, we have introduced some amendments that, from our point of view, go further to our interpretation of the general interest of Portuguese citizens and citizens, the generic interest of the Portuguese Republic. The right to housing and the right to preference are not the same. Clearly, there are areas that are tangents to these two areas of law, but they are not the same thing. That is why, Mr President, what I urge the ladies and gentlemen to do. Members to make, considering the amendments tabled by the PS Parliamentary Group, are also conceiving them in the universe or as a whole of proposals which have been put forward in this House with regard to housing. Even on Monday, amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to a proposal which, of course, aims to better protect the rights of tenants. What the PS Parliamentary Group here argues is that today's amendments are also considered in the whole of what has been its legislative initiative in this House and that, in my view, it has strengthened the right to housing in our country and, of course, also the rights of tenants, in this case in particular as regards access to the right of preference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u194	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the presidential veto that we are discussing today, Mr President of the Republic has asked for two specific clarifications. On the one hand, it considered that the criteria for determining the value of the leased part of the property not constituted in horizontal property should be clarified in order to avoid subsequent and inevitable legal disputes. On the other hand, he argued that the drafting of the diploma would require the strengthening of the right of preference to cover other types of rental than housing, such as commercial or industrial leases, which would address the scope of initiatives aimed at protecting the right to housing. In the face of a situation enhanced by several factors and based on the enormous difficulties of the Portuguese population in concluding or maintaining their lease contract, which eventually impedes the realization of the right to housing established in the Basic Law, we recognize the importance of strengthening the right of preference granted to tenants, which must be transversal to all housing lease cases, thus eliminating any temporary requirement in this scheme. We also consider it relevant not only to establish a reasonable deadline for reply to the notice of the landlord concerning the draft sale and its clauses, as well as the criteria for determining the value of the part located in the lease contracts for residential purposes relating to buildings not constituted in horizontal property. Having said that, we follow the proposals of the Left and the Socialist Party, with the exception of the temporary requirement for the exercise of the right of preference by tenants, maintained in the proposal of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u196	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Protecting the right to housing and preventing the eviction of residents were the premises that motivated the intervention of the CFP as regards the exercise of the right of preference. We proposed that all residents could exercise the right of preference regardless of the property being constituted in horizontal or vertical property and also, independently, of all residents expressing the desire to exercise that same right of preference. We have proposed that the exercise of the right of preference, in these circumstances, should cover housing and non-inhabitation to integrate small trade here, too, in order to safeguard economic activity and jobs. We all know that the non-residential lease has specificities, has concrete aspects and the same activity can be successful in a particular location and in another location may mean its closure. We had before us the intention of loyalty to sell in package a significant number of buildings, a process in which fidelity, however, insisted that tenants could not defend themselves with this law, because the diploma approved in the Assembly of the Republic was vetoed by the President of the Republic. The basis of the veto confirms an option contrary to which the CFP defends in the inevitable conflict between protecting the rights of tenants and the right to housing and the interest of economic groups. The CFP believes that the options taken by the Assembly of the Republic are correct. Therefore, for us, the most appropriate solution would be the confirmation of the Decree. That was not the understanding of the PS and the Left Block, which with us approved the law in July and now agreed to submit amendments. The PSD, in its proposals, intends to reverse everything that has been approved. None of this surprises us, taking into account the options and positions which have always shown contrary to the interests of tenants and always benefiting the interests of the economic groups. The PSD and CDS continue to oppose in front of everything that defends the interests of tenants, as I said here. As for the proposals submitted by the PS and the Left Block, we agree to follow the amendments that maintain in the law the defense of the exercise of the right of preference irrespective of the way of the constitution of the property, to protect the tenants and also so that there is no one who raises any doubts of unconstitutionality. We will not follow the proposals, such as some that have been submitted by the Socialist Party, which, on the pretext of this assessment, represent retreats and are harmful to tenants. As always, the strength of the CFP relies on solutions that protect and strengthen the rights of tenants, which safeguard and defend the right to housing, always making the clear choice to defend tenants in conflict with the great interests of economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u198	I now give the floor to Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, this debate results in a timely veto by Mr President of the Republic, who has tried in some way—even though, for what we have certainly seen in vain—to impose some rationality on this ideological race of the left, which seek to make a contractual relationship of the lease a kind of «who wants to be more friend of the tenants».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u201	Mr President of the Republic has come to veto this law with two essential issues which would have to be clarified, as it has already been said: the lack of indication of the evaluation criteria for the exercise of the right of preference and the fact that the amendments cover not only the housing lease, but also the non-residential lease, particularly industrial and commercial. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, we see that the interest of the various parliamentary groups, more than they themselves come to meet the veto of the President of the Republic, was to revive this kind of race, to see who wants to be more friendly to the tenants, as if solutions to promote the right to housing passed without also having consideration for the interests of the landlords, as if a society, or a market — still above a social market economy, such as the Portuguese — in which there are only tenants, there are no landlords. Of some parliamentary groups we understand this perfectly because, surely, they are taxing models in which ownership was all state, it was the state that distributed houses to people, as they were more or less friendly to the regime at a given time. It frightens us that others seem to follow this type of model!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u203	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against the proposals, for a very simple reason: they do not come in full...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u204	It's not surprising!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u205	It says, well, Mr. João Oliveira is not surprising. Mr President, it is not surprising that the CDS is consistent and does not seek some cosmetic measures such as « after all, it is not three, but it is two years», as if this had changed a lot. What will change, in fact, is to de-protect those who say they want to protect, because more and more will conclude short-term contracts, i.e., which may be held for up to three years, will celebrate with less than two years, certainly not to be covered by these restrictive rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u206	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u207	Possibility to have what you own, or to own a property, seems to be, according to what we have heard — except for the PSD — at the moment, almost a crime, a view that the CDS does not follow or will not be able to follow. This one, sirs. Members, that is why it seems to us that these measures — one more, one less — will not change in the positive sense and, above all, are part of a perfectly manichaistic view, that they are only possible housing policies restricting property rights. It is not our vision and we shall vote against it, of course. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u208	Having concluded the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII, I inform you that the proposals for amendment to the Decree will be voted on at the appropriate time of the legislative votes. We then move on to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Drafts of Law Nos 839 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Prevents seizures of funds in regulatory entities ( second amendment to the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) and 981 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Prohibition of seizures in regulatory entities. To present the PSD bill, you have the floor, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A market economy and a rule of law require independent regulatory entities. Independents not only in the law, but with real, financial, administrative and management autonomy. We know that the Socialist Party is ill associated with independent entities and, preferably, likes to control and hold them in hand. It was not only at the time of Eng.o Socrates, unfortunately, that situation is repeated in the present. from which the government, using the practice of captivating, suffocated regulatory entities. We are not the ones who say it, it is the very entities who come to Parliament successively. They would tell us that they had no money due to captivating, despite their own resources to hire staff, to pay rents or even to carry out inspections, some of which were cancelled due to lack of means. In view of this reality, it is simple what we have to choose: to pretend that we do not know, to pretend that we do not hear, to pretend that everything is okay, or, on the contrary, to take on your responsibilities and to act? We, PSD, do not run away from our responsibilities and, by not running away from our responsibilities, what we propose is purely and simply clear: regulatory entities cannot be subject to captivity. They cannot be subject to successive requests from the Government, the guardianship or the Ministry of Finance for the release of money, and many of these requests have not even merited an answer. Now, this is clear as water: we need to know whether we want real, independent regulatory entities or, on the contrary, we want to pretend that we have them as independent, but we prefer a way of keeping in control and well in our hands. It is up to each parliamentary group to assume their responsibilities! We've already assumed ours! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u210	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are having here today, with the initiatives of the PSD and the CDS, is another episode of the game of the cat and mouse we have had throughout this legislature. It is a game in which the Government tries to keep the one who is its double speech, a speech to Brussels on budgetary goals, and another one, by passing a law of the State budget in Parliament which, of course, if it was met would not allow it to meet those goals. This game exists only because there are parliamentary groups that are convincing and who pretend they do not realize it exists, they pretend that they do not realize that they are being deceived and that every year what the government does is fulfilling what Brussels promises and at the same time lying to the parliamentary groups of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens. But since these parliamentary groups like to be deceived, we still have to do this work, through all the mechanisms, to prevent the government from maintaining this farce. This was the case when the government began to misuse the captivating, the greatest initial captivating ever and the greatest final captivating ever. It seemed that the left parties had not given this until the CDS presented the first project to have information about these seizures and, yes, they seem to have agreed to the problem. It is true that we already know and already have the information that allows us, for example, to know that there is no area in which this government has taken more than that of the railway. We have finally succeeded in establishing a cause and an effect between what is the dissimulation of the Ministry of Finance and what is the inconsequence of public services managed by socialists. This can be done because we were demanding and because we went far beyond the role that the left should have when it approves Budgets, and it must be responsible for its implementation. The same is said about the captivating in health and education as Mr. Ministers, both finance and guardianship, were saying there was no. We saw what happened in schools, hospitals and health centres in the country, and the Minister of Finance continued to say that there were no captivations. For in this Budget there have been limitations to these captivations and, nevertheless, the situation remains as it is, because we know, and we will not forget this in the State budget, of the abuses that are later made in the budget implementation decree. We are dealing with a very serious case today. What happens to regulatory entities is that several of them have come to tell Parliament that they have not completed proceedings, did not carry out investigations, had no essential actions to ensure that the markets that regulate work within the rules that are established, because they do not have sufficient means, because, as a result of captivating, they have not been able to promote such actions or they have not been able to hire the people needed to promote them. More serious is the case with several of these regulatory entities that have their own revenue and that it was sufficient for them to be allowed to use them in order to carry out these missions, not even requiring money from the State budget. Therefore, what we are talking about today is who is on the side of a regulated market economy, a functioning economy and a law that is met and who is on the side of deregulation, the State's inability to control,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u212	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u213	...to be able to secure what is its function in a market economy like ours. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u214	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Budget management, including captivating, cannot serve to meet the European Union's demands, particularly with regard to the accelerated reduction of the deficit, cannot serve to deny public services the means they need to fully carry out their mission. It was precisely to prevent the seizures from being used to unduly reduce the expenditure necessary for the normal functioning of public services that, one year ago, the CFP presented a bill that ensured the regular disclosure by the Government of the use of captives in public institutions budgets. With the unanimous approval of this PCP bill, the Assembly of the Republic has now made available more information on the implementation of the budget, allowing for better monitoring of the Government's options in respect of captives. It is in this framework that the PSD and CDS proposals should be analysed with a view to prohibiting seizures in regulatory entities. It is strange that the CDS, which has also been presenting a legislative initiative one year ago to improve the capacity of the Assembly to monitor the use of captives, now defends that the solution is not a better supervision, the solution is even to end up with the captives. With this proposal, is the CDS seeking to affirm its inability to monitor the action of the Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u216	If you don't comply with the law, you must forbid it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u217	And the PSD, which a year ago voted in favour of the proposals of the PCP and the CDS, also feels unable to monitor the use of seizures and report possible abuses, preferring to eliminate a budgetary management instrument used by all governments, including those of the PSD? [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Captives are a budgetary management instrument which, like any other instrument, can be used improperly. But what to do in situations of misuse? Just end the captives by abdicating a budgetary management instrument? Or, on the contrary, to monitor and evaluate budgetary management, denouncing improper uses and demanding the proper use of capitulations? Clearly, PSD and CDS opt to end up captivating, throwing out the baby with the bath water. With regard to the CFP, as always, it will continue to monitor budgetary management and denounce abusive uses of captivitys, in particular those aimed at satisfying the European Union and its levying. As always, it will continue to intervene to ensure that budgetary management aims to respond to the problems of people and the country. A final note: PSD and CDS bills will be unconstitutional because they attribute strengthened value to a law that constitutionally does not have it. We know that for PSD and CDS, this is not a problem. We all remember that, in recent times, these two parties have tried, at the expense of the Constitution, to impose harmful measures on the interests of workers and the people. They were defeated in this intention, but, by the way, they did not learn the lesson. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u218	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have discussed two legislative initiatives, the PSD and the CDS, on the end of seizures in regulatory entities. The Socialist Party advocates the importance of regulatory entities and the role of state regulation in a market economy. However, it seems to us that the PSD and the CDS invoke a concept of independence which is foreign to Portuguese law and which violates the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The independence of regulatory entities is first and foremost independent of the regulator vis-à-vis the regulator. It is not independent of the regulator vis-à-vis the State, vis-à-vis the Constitution, against the Budget Framework Act and against the laws of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What the PSD and the CDS here stand for, in a blatantly illegal way, is the constitution of a budgetary offshore, in which regulatory entities would exist in a world outside the other entities of public administrations, being exempt from compliance with the Budget Framework Act and, I repeat, in flagrant violation of Article 106. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Regulatory entities are independent of regulated entities, are not independent of the State and do not operate in a legislative and budgetary offshore.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u220	But they are independent of political power. Don't you understand that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u221	But these PSD and CDS proposals are not just a flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Budget Framework Act, they are, curiously, but unfortunately already habitually, a contradiction with the legislative and political options of the PSD itself and CDS. Don't worry about it! PSD and CDS have approved a Budget Framework Act which disallows everything they have just said in this debate. This is because the Budget Framework Act which voted both in 2011 and in 2015 expressly states that the budgetary rules prevail over the other autonomous budgetary rules and regimes. We did not say that, although we agree, it was the PSD and the CDS that approved this law in this House in 2015. But they did not just vote for a Budget Framework Act which blatantly contradicts what they are defending here today. They also approved a State budget, with votes only from the PSD and CDS, in 2015, where they prohibit regulatory entities from contracting people with indefinite time. Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco here said that the PS and the majority were dealing badly with the independence of regulatory entities, so we must conclude that PSD and CDS by 2015 also were dealing badly with the independence of regulatory entities. Or is it that the concept of relevant independence is the one I mentioned here at the beginning, i.e. independence from the regulated ones and what Mr. Members proposed in 2015 is only compliance with the law and the Constitution, which this government and this majority have done in 2016, in 2017 and in 2018? The appropriations existing in the Budget and in the budget implementation decree in force this year scrupulously comply with the Constitution and the Budget Framework Act, proposed and voted by PSD and CDS, and comply with the State budget approved by this Assembly, certainly not with the votes of the PSD and CDS, but complying with the laws which PSD and CDS approved in the past, on the basis of which they presented an Budget in 2015. PSD and CDS come again to do this scene that contradicts the law and also opposes proposals by themselves, when they were in power, but now that they are no longer, they have changed their position. At least they assume this and take it into account in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u222	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Captives are a budgetary management tool that the Left Block does not question. What questions and criticisms is their misuse, not as a budgetary management tool, but as a budgetary policy tool for making choices that do not have the courage to take when spending is to be reduced. Captives have a second problem: they remove autonomy from public bodies that are dependent on the decision of the Ministry of Finance, which thus centralizes decisions belonging to the bodies that are being protected. If we look at developments in captivity over the past few years, we see that their abuse is not exclusive to this government. There were years when PSD and CDS also used the captivations this way. Worse: there were years when PSD and CDS used captives in a cost-cutting context, which is even more serious than using them in a context of increased expenditure. After two years, PSD and CDS, which both cut into public services, found a filon of attack in captivity. It is inconsistent, but, finally, any broken watch is certain twice a day and the truth is that yes, it is undeniable, the years of 2016 and 2017 were recordists at the level of the captivitys made by this government. We discussed these seizures hard in the Assembly of the Republic and, contrary to what the CDS says, neither was the CDS the main protagonist of this debate, this debate existed here, in comparison with the Minister of Finance, also with the participation of the Left Block, and it was the result of this debate that we managed, within the last State budget, to limit the captivations in health agencies that were not yet excluded from captivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u224	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! Go to the hospitals to see if they are limited!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u225	We were able to introduce a 90 % limit in view of what existed in 2017, ensuring that the ceilings were lowered, and we managed to achieve transparency measures on captivitys that did not exist in the past. The PSD and the CDS now bring us two bills to ban seizures in regulatory entities and increase the autonomy of contracting. The problem is real and the problem exists. These are principles with which we generally agree. In fact, in the last State budget, we have already proposed autonomy, for example, for the replacement of doctors, when doctors were on a low level. And I must tell you that this proposal has not passed, and it has not passed in the State budget, with the votes against the PS, of course, but the geometry of this House of the Republic tells us that someone else had to prevent this proposal from being approved — PSD or CDS. So here we have another proof of concern about the autonomy of public services. Finally, the draft laws have some aspects that we question, in particular the question of the independence of regulatory entities, which, as has already been mentioned and we agree, must be in relation to the regulated and not to the state and budgetary policies — that is not to say that captivity should not be restricted — and we agree with the independence for hiring when there are own revenue. Finally, there are two doubts which we would like to raise, the first of which concerns the time when these proposals were put forward. These decisions are taken at the heart of the State budget and not in an ad hoc way, when it is more effective. The second concerns the constitutionality of these bills. I have been rapporteur for this project in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization and I must say that the services, in their technical note, point out huge doubts as to the constitutionality of the proposals presented here by PSD and CDS, regarding the power of a law on regulatory entities in relation to the power of the Budget Framework Act and the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u226	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u227	If the PSD and the CDS decide to put these projects down to the Commission without a vote, we will be in the specialty of solving these problems, otherwise the Left Block will be available to discuss these matters in the budget of the State, which happens within three weeks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u228	I recall that, in accordance with the rules established in the meantime at the Conference of Leaders, the proposed party of the agenda, in the specific case the PSD, is entitled to two minutes to close the debate, but, as it is still available for time, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, to intervene in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say three things. First of all, all the information that was requested from the Government and regulatory entities was important, in particular to prepare this initiative. We don't want to have information just to say we know, we want information to act, and that's what we did. Secondly, autonomy is called into question, even affecting European legislation, and this is what the regulatory authorities themselves are also defending, with legal opinions, in this House. Thirdly, it is clear that there are those who speak, speak and speak, invent all the excuses, so that at the end of the day these initiatives will be brought to light.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u230	They're unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u231	For a simple reason: in practice, they do not want truly independent regulators, they do not want market police to be truly independent... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... they prefer to have police on the bounded markets, perhaps to defend the interests of powerful, against which we will always be fighting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u232	For the end of this debate, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have learned that in 2017 many regulatory entities have been prevented from making, in time and time, payments of income from their home buildings, payments of cost aid to their employees and, unbelievably, some very important investigations to combat market deficiencies have not been carried out. But we are also here today to know that the Government and the Socialist Party are scrupulously fulfilling the State budget. Mr Galamba is scrupulously fulfilling the Budget and increasing the captives made to regulatory entities by about 40 % compared to the previous year. We are still aware here today that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block will guarantee this conduct of the Government and the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u234	Put down the project to committee without a vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u235	... which we also find, in some way, unbelievable, in the face of what was years of tingling about the question of captivity. This situation reads the interest of the State and the Portuguese. A competitive economy, which attracts investment, which creates jobs, which offers better prices to consumers is not compatible with the submission of regulatory entities independent of the influence of government members.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u236	It's not compatible now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u237	Does anyone understand that a truly independent regulatory entity is dependent on the goodwill of the Minister of Finance in order to be able to control and investigate actions that make the market weak? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a clear pattern of weakening of regulators carried out by this government. At least seven regulatory entities have told us, they have denounced, in warning calls, here in Parliament, that the seizures have prevented them from fully carrying out their mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u238	But it's now! Not in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u239	This is another chapter of the head-on austerity, which harms the economy and, consequently, the taxpayers and the public interest. That is why the PSD presents this bill today, so that independent regulators are even independent. For that reason, their words cannot be in captivity. Only in this way can we avoid a society captured by obscure interests, covered by powerful ones. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u240	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to go into the voting period. I therefore ask the services to activate the system so that we can register ourselves and proceed to the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, to give us an account of diplomas that have entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1812 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote measures to eliminate pollution outbreaks in the Esmoriz / Lagoa de Paramos Quarter, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1813 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a national registry on multiple sclerosis, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and 1814 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a programme to support the start-up of the post-fire natural regeneration eucalyptus, which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed with the electronic verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 214 presences, to which four are added — those of the Members. Deputies Luís Campos Ferreira, Duarte Pacheco and Pedro Roque, of the PSD, and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, of the PS —, thanking 218 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We shall initiate the votes, starting with the supplementary script, by the votes relating to the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII — Ensure the exercise of the right of preference by tenants ( amends the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966 ). The Decree has been the subject of a number of amendments, so we will begin by voting in the specialty. We shall therefore first vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 1091 ( a ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] [[(a) the purchase and sale or donation in compliance with the leased site for more than two years;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u243	The speciality of the proposal submitted by the PS, as amended by Article 1091 ( a ), is thus hampered. the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u244	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u245	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u246	Mr President, we believe that the proposals are not exactly the same, they have a difference, so in our view, the proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group is not prejudiced and must be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u247	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u248	Mr President, although the proposals are not 100 % equal, the fact is that, from a legislated point of view, there cannot be two points (a) in the same number. So it seems to us that Mr President's understanding is the obvious, the normal, the one that must be followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u249	Obviously, because if they were both approved, we would have two points (a) with different wordings and I do not think that this is possible. In fact, this is how we have proceeded whenever there are corrections in these circumstances. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u250	Mr President, the PSD believes that in fact the vote on both proposals is not mutually exclusive. These are slightly different proposals and, in terms of final text, both can be approved. We therefore believe that there is room for this vote requested by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u251	Well, if there is this understanding on the part of PSD and PS, then we'll vote and then we'll see what the final writing will look like. We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, also amending Article 1091 ( 1 ) ( a ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[(a) the purchase and sale or donation in compliance with the leased site for more than two years, without prejudice to those provided for in the following numbers;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u252	We now turn to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 4 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It shall be as follows: 4 — The communication provided for in Article 416(1) shall be sent by mail registered with a notice of receipt and the time limit provided for in Article 30 (2) from the date of receipt.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u253	Mrs. Members, I believe that the speciality of the proposal tabled by the PSD amending Article 1091 ( 4 ) is now effectively impaired. the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree, unless the PSD and PS understand that they do not. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, this vote is hindered. We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 5 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It shall be as follows: 5 — The provisions of Articles 416 to 418 and 1410 shall apply, where necessary, without prejudice to the specificities, in the case of rental for housing purposes provided for in the following numbers.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u254	Let us now proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the elimination of Article 1091 ( 6 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 6 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 6 — In the case of sale of something together with others, in accordance with Article 417, the obligation indicates in the communication the price that is allocated to the place and the other values attributed to the buildings sold together.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u255	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to delete Article 1091 ( 7 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 7 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP, and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Wanda Guimarães.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — In the case of rental for housing purposes, where the obligation to invoke the final part of Article 417(1), the communication referred to in the previous paragraph includes the demonstration of the existence of significant injury.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u256	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD to eliminate Article 1091 ( 8 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left to replace Article 1091 ( 8 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[(b) the communication provided for in Article 416(1) shall indicate the values referred to above;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u257	Mrs. Members, the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 8 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. That of the Decree, it's damaged. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD for the elimination of Article 1091 ( 9 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and against the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u258	The CDS votes against the elimination! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u259	The vote on the proposal by BE would be followed by a vote on the elimination of Article 1091 ( 9 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. the decree, which is impaired, as from the proposal, submitted by the PS, also eliminating Article 1091 ( 9 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD to eliminate Article 1091 ( 10 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] We now vote on the proposal by the PS to replace Article 1091 ( 10 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] [[(b) the communication provided for in Article 416(1) shall indicate the values referred to in the preceding paragraph;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u260	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to eliminate Article 1091 ( 11 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on the proposal by the PS to eliminate Article 1091 ( 11 ). the Civil Code, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and the CFP were voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u261	Two elimination proposals: one is plummeted, the other is approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u262	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to delete Article 3. the renumbering of the remaining articles of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE and CDS-PP and abstentions against PSD, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted.]] I believe that the vote on the proposal by BE for the replacement of Article 3. That of the Decree, it's damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u263	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u264	So if Article 3 was deleted. how does it replace an article that has been deleted? [[Pause.]] The opinion of the parliamentary committees was made clear. We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by BE, replacing Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 (...) With the entry into force of this law, the right of preference is guaranteed to renters of tenants in the process of purchase and sale which are not carried out.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u265	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the new Decree, with the amendments made. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u266	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u267	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u268	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 233 / XIII.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u269	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u270	Mr President, on the overall vote of the Decree, we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we continue with vote No 620 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ), regretting the death of Fabián Tomasi, a reference in the fight against the use of glyphosate in Argentina. I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u272	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "Fabián Tomasi died on 7 September, a victim of severe toxic polyneuropathy caused by the systematic use of pesticides in agricultural practices in his home country. Tomasi has spent the last years of his life developing efforts towards full awareness of the dangers associated with the use of pesticides in agricultural production, which irreparablely pollute ecosystems and cause irreparable damage to living beings who come into contact with them, having even been left to photograph already in a terminal state of his disease. Fabián began working with agrochemicals in 2005 for a smoking company in the province of Entre Ríos, where he ended up dying. He reported in his testimony that he had never used any protection in the handling of glyphosate, which eventually dictated the occurrence of the disease that affected him. It is stressed that part of the scientific community considers that glyphosate is consistent with a high probability rate of a carcinogenic substance, moving forward that the World Health Organization itself subscribed this thesis in 2015. In honor of the death of this personality and of many others who eventually perish because of the use of this type of toxic substances, the principle of prevention must be fully applied, once and for all the use of these pesticides. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, is associated with environmental organizations and the scientific community in the tribute and collective recognition of the life and work of Fabián Tomasi, lamenting his death and enormous loss for all of us. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u274	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u275	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u276	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u277	Mr President, we are already voting, but please say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u278	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, clearly, the matter at stake has nothing to do with foreign affairs. It is a sad sign of the times that we are voting a vote on an alleged martyr of glyphosate in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u279	Mr President, all parliamentary groups know that a debate is taking place at the Conference of Leaders on the procedures to be adopted in the area of weighing votes, but this debate is not yet concluded. So today we will continue to proceed as we have always done, but possibly at the next session it will no longer be. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 620 / XIII / 4. the, submitted by the NAP. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, against the PS deputy Sérgio Sousa Pinto and PSP abstentions, of 6 PS Members (Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Rocha Andrade, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, José Magalhães and Renato Ampaio) and of 1 CDS-PP Member (Patrícia Fonseca).]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed to Vote No 621 / XIII / 4. a...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u280	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u281	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u282	Mr President, with regard to vote No 621 / XIII / 4. the, until I applaud the decision of the Supreme Court of India, but I believe that this is an interference of a sovereign state and that this House should not vote this vote. In any case, I will not take part in this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u283	Mr President, you cannot fail to participate because the rules do not allow Members in the Chamber to participate in the votes. [[Right now, PS deputy Renato Sampaio has left the Chamber.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 621 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Congratulations on the decriminalization of homosexuality by the Supreme Court of India, as provided for in the vote script which was delivered to you in due course. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1784 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — For the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1790 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government review in 2018 the ratio of educational assistants in the public school to strengthen it. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1793 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow schools to quickly replace operational assistants in a situation of prolonged low. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1794 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Need to review the ratio of educational action auxiliaries in public school. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1796 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Review and strengthening of the allocation ratio of operational assistants and technical assistants to ungrouped groups and schools. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. The Commission We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1792 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the re-installation of a PSP team in the new Avenues Freguey area, with adequate effectiveness. Avenidas Novas is supposed to be only in Lisbon. It can be at other points in the country, but it is not here written « Lisbon », so it is from the principle that it is Lisbon. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against PS Constance Urbano de Sousa and Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 839 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Prevents seizures of funds in regulatory entities ( second amendment to the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 981 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Prohibition of seizures in regulatory entities. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u285	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u286	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u287	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1754 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of the procedures for the granting of caulinos in the area of Bar region ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1776 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — For the area of Bar region ( Cantanhede and Mealhada ) free from the exploitation of caulinos. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1700 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the management of the social equipment of the Union of the Freguesias de Cedofeita, Santo Ildefonso, Sé, Miragaia, São Nicolau and Vitoria and ensure the public linkage of their workers. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and 10 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Santos, Joana Lima, João Torres, José Magalhães, Renato Sampaio, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions from PS and PAN.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1755 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government work towards finding a solution that keeps the two day care centres and the three ATLs of the Fregue Board of the Port Historic Centre available. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 10 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Santos, Joana Lima, João Torres, José Magalhães, Renato Sampaio, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions from PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1791 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government ensure that literary qualifications are not an exclusion factor from the regularization of links and safeguard the situation of workers within the framework of PREVPAP ( the text was replaced by the Committee on Labour and Social Security ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1799 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Insurance of workers without 12. the year of schooling not excluding invitation to tender under PREVPAP taking into account the admission requirements at the start of duties and, where necessary, granting a period for the acquisition of the required qualifications. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on two opinions of the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Please, Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u288	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Visau, Organic Unit 1, Cases 212 / 16.5BEVIS and 298 / 16.2BEVIS, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Marisabel Moutela ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the cars in reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u289	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u290	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Coimbra Criminal Instruction Judge 1, the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Coimbra, Investigation Process No 1731 / 16.9T9CBR, the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Fatima Ramos ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the car under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-21.u291	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Member of our agenda for the plenary meeting, next Wednesday, from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., takes up the debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. We've come to the end of our work. Thanks a lot to everyone and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 2 minutes.]]
